Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3585-IND
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 10, 1981
East Asia and Pacific
Transportation Division 11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1              Rp 625
Rp 100        =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million      US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
1 meter (m)                    =    13.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)               =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                 =    2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT         - Average Daily Traffic
BAPPENAS    - National Planning Agency
BAPPEDA I   - Provincial Planning Agency
BAPPEDA II  - Kabupaten Planning Agency
BRI         - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CIPTA KARYA - Directorate General of Housing and Urban/Regional
Development (Ministry of Public Works)
DGH         - Directorate General of Highways
DGRD        - Directorate General of Regional Development (Ministry
of Home Affairs)
DIP         - Project Plan within GOI Budgeting System
DPUK        - Kabupaten (District) Public Works Agency
DPUP        - Provincial Public Works Agency
ERR         - Economic Rate of Return
GNP         - Gross National Product
GOI         - Government of Indonesia
ICB         - International Competitive Bidding
MHA         - Ministry of Home Affairs
MMT         - Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration
MOC         - Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
MPW         - Ministry of Public Works
NPV         - Net Present Value
OECF        - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PCU         - Passenger Car Unit
PJKA        - Indonesian State Railway
PPAR        - Project Performance Audit Report
REPELITA    - National Development Plan
SCC         - Supervision of Construction Committee
SDRR        - Subdirectorate for Rural Roads (DGH)
TKTD        - Directorate of City and Regional Planning (Cipta Karya)
vpd         - Vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  1
A. General .1....  .         .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..    .  I
B. Background ..... . . . . . ..                                               2
C. Government Structure   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
D. Previous Bank-Group Financed Road Projects.  . . . . . . . .                3
2.  TRANSPORT AND THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  5
A.  Transport Development Trends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 5
B.  Transport Development Plans and Financing .  . . . . . .  .                6
C.  Functional Organizations for Transport . . . . . . . . . .                 8
D.  The Highway Subsector   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
E.  Vehicles and Traffic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 9
F.  Highway Administration and Planning  . . . . . . . . . . .                10
G.  Manpower Planning and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                11
H.  Engineering   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
I.  Construction ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
J.  Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               14
K.  Financing and Funding Process.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               15
3.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 17
A.  Project Objectives ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
B.  Project Scope  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
C.  Detailed Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                18
D. Project Costs .25
E. Project Financing .28
F. Project Implementation .28
G. Procurement .32
H. Disbursements .34
I. Auditing .35
J. Environmental Aspects .36
4.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 36
A.  General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                36
B.  Subproject Preparation and Program Review. . . . . . . . .                37
C.  Overall Economic Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                39
D.  Project Risk ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  41
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Rafloski (Economist), Jensen
(Engineer) and Rahkonen (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
5. RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................                     .    41
TABLES
1.  The Public Highway Network-Type of Surface  . . . . . . . . .    44
2.  Summary of Kabupaten Roads by Surface Type and Condition  . .    45
3. Vehicles Registered, 1968-78 .46
4.  Motor Vehicle Registrationis - Geographic Distribution, 1978 .    47
5.  Road Network Program, Budget Years 1979/80 - 1981/82. . . . .    48
6.  Study of 25 Kabupatens - Preliminary Survey and
Assessment of Road Conditions - April 1981  . . . . . . . .    49
7.  DGH Geometric Design Standards  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    50
8.  Proposed Design Standards for Kabupaten Roads . . . . . . . .    51
9. Equipment Requirements .52
10. Project Costs and Financing .53
11.  Project Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    55
12.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursemates . . . . . . . . . . . . .    57
13.  Schedule of Unit Costs for Civil Works  . . . . . . . . . . .    58
ANNEXES
1.  Proposed Kabupaten Road Planning Procedures  . . . . . . . . .    59
2.  Evaluation of Typical Project Roads. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    74
3.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File . . .    90
CHARTS
WB - 22133  Organization of the Central and Provincial
Highway Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    92
WB - 22891 Road Funding Process .93
WB - 22892  Structural Organization Chart of DPUK Kabupaten
of Cirebon .94
WB - 22893  Structural Organization Chart of DPUK Kabupaten
of Dairi .95
WB - 22895  Planning and Implementation of Road Works  . . . . . .    96
WB - 22896  Administrative Units of Government . . . . . . . . . .    97
WB - 23108  Flow Chart of Organization for Rural
Road Development Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    98
MAPS
IBRD - 15807 - Sumatra
IBRD - 15808 - West Java



1. INTRODUCTION
A. General
1.01      Transport is a key link between smallholders and the market.  Aside
from providing access to the market, transport often constitutes the cata-
lyst that acts to project a stagnant rural area into a first phase of
economic development. The present poor state of the kabupaten (district)
road system constitutes a major constraint for adequate access to the market
for the smallholder. Therefore, the Government of- Indonesia (GOI) has
requested a Bank project to assist in strengthening the capability of
kabupatens to plan, develop and maintain their road networks to support
agriculture and rural development. The kabupaten road system is some 67,000
km and represents the third tier after the national and provincial road
systems (together some 40,000 km). This road sysl:em serves mainly the local
population and functions as the collector system for agricultural goods
largely produced by smallholders and subsistence iarmers. The project's
main thrust will be to develop the executing capacity of the kabupaten staff
for project planning, implementation and maintenance. Since staffing is a
major issue in practically all projects in Indonesia and the issue trans-
cends all the sectors and is fundamental to the successful development of
the economy, the project includes measures to strengthen the agencies
directly responsible for the rural roads development. The project will also
introduce new methods and concepts for planning and justifying roads works
and improve the quality of the works carried out in the kabupatens both by
domestic contractors and force account. Road worlcs, particularly in Java,
will continue to be predominantly labor intensive,, but the project will
provide some equipment to increase productivity and quality. The project is
a natural evolution from the Bank's assistance to the central and provincial
road agencies under previous highways projects, and it will be the Bank-s
first venture in assisting rural roads developmenl at the kabupaten level.
Since many of the concepts and methods will be new to the kabupatens, the
initially selected 25 kabupatens located in Java and Sumatra will act as a
testing ground. Proven concepts and methods will eventually be introduced
to the remaining 234 kabupatens. The Asian Development Bank, following the
concepts and methods prepared under this project, is also proposing to
support another 10 kabupatens. The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of
Japan (OECF) is financing equipment and technical assistance for some 20
additional kabupatens.



-2-
1.02      The project was identified in discussions between the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW), the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), BAPPENAS (National
Planning Agency), and the Bank in 1978 followed by an identification mission
in January 1979. Detailed project preparation was carried out by GOI
through a Steering Committee with assistance from the consultants ENEX (New
Zealand) and BIEC International Inc. (Indonesia) financed under the Technical
Assistance Credit 898-IND. Five sample kabupatens, Majalengka, Cirebon (West
Java), Deli Serdang, Dairi (West Sumatra) and Kebumen (Central Java) were
studied in detail and the results of these findings were used to estimate the
requirements of the remaining kabupatens. The project was appraised in
February/March 1981 by Messrs. Rafloski, Ostenc, Jensen and Rahkonen with a
brief follow-up mission in June/July 1981.
B. Background
1.03      Indonesia, an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands, stretching
5,000 km along the equator, has a land area of about 2 million sq km with a
population of over 145 million people. The Gross National Product (GNP) per
capita is US$430. The major islands, Java, Sumatra, Sulawesi and Kalimantan,
account for about 70% of the total land area and contain more than 95% of the
population. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas, and agri-
culture is the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural house-
holders and one-tenth of urban households. With the exception of oil palm
and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholders. Some 15.6 million
smallholder families produce subsistence and cash crops on 15.8 mil:Lion ha,
while 1,800 estates occupy 2.2 million ha. The main products of these small
farms are rice, corn, cassava, soybeans, fruits and vegetables, accounting
for about 64% of total agricultural output. The main cash crops are rubber,
tea, coconut, oil palm, sugar, and coffee.
1.04      Most of the existing network of rural roads serving the small-
holders and subsistence farmers was constructed prior to World War II for low
vehicle loads and low volumes of traffic. Until the late 1960s little
rehabilitation was undertaken and almost no maintenance was performed on the
road network leading to serious deterioration in the face of increases in
vehicle loads and the speed and intensity of traffic. As a result, some 60%
of all the kabupaten roads in Indonesia are now considered to be in poor to
bad condition. In the late 1960s, the Government undertook an extensive road
improvement program with the assistance of several foreign donors including
the Bank Group. Recognizing the limited resources of both finance and
qualified staff, the initial efforts were undertaken to improve the organiza-
tions and the road networks at the national and provincial levels. This
systematic approach is providing an adequate arterial network of roads for
the rural roads to feed into, as well as increased levels of competent staff,
at the national and provincial levels, to provide technical assistance to the
kapubatens.



-3-
C. Government Structure
1.05      Government authority in Indonesia is centralized, with major
control vested with the President and his Cabinet. Of the several minis-
tries and agencies, those directly involved in this project are the Minis-
tries of Home Affairs (MHA), Public Works (MPW), Finance (MOF) and the
national planning agency, BAPPENAS. Because of the rumber of agencies
concerned with the project, the organization as well as the procedures for
funding and implementing the project are complex. The Bank recognizes this
and has agreed to work with this structure for the pilot program considering
that this program is intended to help GOI identify, inter alia, problems
concerned with communications between and within the various levels of
government, funding, and implementation. The project executing agents will
be the Bupatis or regents heading each of the kabupatens involved in the
project. Their relationships within regional government is described below.
1.06      Indonesian regional government operates at three levels:  provinces,
kabupaten (district),/l and desa (village) (Chart WB-22896). The first two
of these levels are autonomous," that is they have an elected assembly with
power to make laws (subject to the approval of the next higher level), they
have their own budgets and they levy taxes and charges. The province is
headed by a Governor who is appointed by the President. As Kepala Daerah
(Chief of the Region) he is responsible to the President but reports admin-
istratively to MHA. The Governor coordinates all line agency activities,
which are represented at the provincial level as directorates. The kabupa-
ten is run by a Bupati who is appointed by the Ministry of Home Affairs, on
the advice of the Governor, and is responsible for all government activities
at his level. The Bupati's staff have no formal organizational ties to
either the provincial or central government organization other than through
the Bupati who reports directly to the Governor. The desa, which is more an
administrative unit embracing 10-15 pedukuhan (hamlets) than a distinct
geographic entity, is run by a Lurah. The Lurah is appointed by the
Governor upon nomination of the villagers.
D. Previous Bank-Group Financed Road Projects
1.07      Bank Group lending for highways in Indonesia has been adapted to the
evolving needs of the highway system. The First Highway Project ($28 million,
June 1969, Credit 154-IND) helped restore communications in Indonesia after a
long period of neglect, by providing equipment and materials for a mainte-
nance program and rehabilitation of about 3,000 kin of roads. Project Per-
formance Audit Report (PPAR) SecM78-524 indicates that this project had
delays in the maintenance program due to poor project formulation; however,
the average reestimated economic rate of return (ERR) was about 40%. The
Second and Third Highway Projects supported the next phase of Indonesia's
road program:
/1  Urban areas are organized as kotamadya (municipality) which are func-
tionally equivalent to kabupaten.



-4-
construction of major links in remote areas of the country. The Second
Highway Project ($34 million, June 1971, Credit 260-IND) primarily helped
rebuild a section of the TransSumatra Highway in an area which is a major site
for transmigration development under the Second Transmigration Project (Loan
1707-IND). The Second Highway project yielded a reestimated ERR of 20%. The
Third Highway Project ($14 million, April 1973, Credit 388-IND) reconstructed
a road to a new irrigation area in Sulawesi. It also included an important
training component, which initiated courses and set up a nationwide training
system for highway personnel, and studies and design of road improvements
subsequently financed under the Fourth Highway Project. However, due to
delays and underestimates of quantities, the reestimate of the Third Highway
had only an 8% ERR vis-a-vis the appraisal estimate of 13%. The construction
under the Second Highway Project was completed in 1977 and under the Third
Highway Project in December 1978. As detailed in the Project Performance
Audit Report (PPAR) SecM81-4, January 6, 1981, the second project had
relatively small delays and cost overruns, while the third project had
significant delays (due to mobilization problems in a very remote area and
unusually wet weather) and increased construction costs (due to underestimate
of quantities and sharp price increases after the oil price rise). The PPAR
also noted difficulty of using different consultants for design and for
supervision and the importance of providing adequate leadership for and
guidance to the study team for regional development plans.
1.08      The Fourth Highway Project ($130 million, April 1976, Loan 1236-IND)
represented a new departure in several ways. The project (a) sponsored the
establishment of four regional Road Betterment Offices; (b) supported a
large-scale and complex program for the betterment of existing roads; (c)
included assistance to strengthen virtually all functions of the Directorate
General of Highways (DGH); (d) helped initiate studies of other institutions
concerned with highways such as provincial and kabupaten public works
agencies, and consultants and contractors engaged in highway works; and (e)
provided for studies of highway laws, road user charges, and vehicle weights
and dimensions regulations. The project responded to the sudden increase in
DGH's betterment program which was made possible by the new funds available to
Indonesia after the oil price rise in 1973. The project contributed not only
to providing matching funds for construction but also to helping DGH cope with
its expanded workload. Although the project is about two years behind
schedule because of the multiplicity of contracts, over 1,200 km of road
betterments have been put under contract, and 90% of the project had been
completed by late 1980. Positive changes have also been effected in planning,
design, budgeting, and control procedures of DGH.
1.09      The Fifth HJighway Project (US$130 million, May 1979, Loan 1696-IND)
participates in all important programs of DGII, particularly at the regional
level. The project includes: (a) components of DGTHs bridge replacement
program; (b) road construction and maintenance works executed by eight
provincial public works organizations; (c) assistance to upgrade road
maintenance; (d) measures to study and improve the highway institutions
in some provincial governments; (e) technical assistance to strengthen



- 5 -
Indonesian highway consultants and contractors. There have been start-up
delays in many components of the project but implementation has recently
improved. Road betterment contracts for 531 km out of the 800 km planned have
been awarded, and the balance is being tendered and awards should be made by
late 1981. Consultants are in place for constrlction supervision, project
monitoring, management assistance, a study of the construction industry, and
assistance in transport planning and regulation, and consultants are being
mobilized for provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of Communi-
cations (MOC) for a national highway safety scheme and development of new
regulations for vehicle weights and dimensions. The eight DPUP programs have
been defined and equipment tenders are being evaluated; recent increases in
the GOI budget for these programs have lead to an expansion of road works.
1.10      The sixth highway project, the Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project, was
approved by the Board in September 1981. This project would increase road
capacity between these towns by construction of a new 72 km long toll road,
and by improvements to the existing highway. Construction would include
interchanges and spur roads for access to the new toll facility. The project
also includes consulting services for toll road management and for regional
transport planning. The Bank loan is US$85 million, and the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development will provide US$60 million, under parallel
cofinancing arrangements, towards the total estimated project cost of US$356
million.
2. TRANSPORT AND THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Transport Development Trends
2.01      Over the past decade Indonesia has made great strides in developing
its economy. Between 1971 and 1978 GDP rose frcm Rp 5,600 billion to Rp 9,250
billion, in real terms, an average annual growth rate of 7.4%. The transport
sector is estimated to have grown about 12% per annum during the 1970s and its
contribution to GDP varied between 4% and 5%. GOI planners predict the
sector's share to increase to around 6% of GDP by the end of the century which
means a leveling of the annual growth trend to around 10%.
2.02      Within the Indonesian transport system, road transport is the prin-
cipal mode. In terms of volumes, about 93% of all goods and about 99% of all
passengers transported in Indonesia in the mid-1970s were accommodated by
road. Road infrastructure expanded from 85,000 km to 105,000 km, mainly
provincial and kabupaten roads, between 1971 and 1977 while the annual growth
of the road vehicle population was about 15% for commercial vehicles and 22.5%
for cars (paras. 2.08 and 2.10). Maritime transport, including interisland
ferries, is the second most important mode. This obvious importance derives



- 6 -
from the archipelago setting of the country. About 95% of all freight
movements and roughly 75% of all person-trips between the islands are
handled by sea transport. Approximately 300 ports and numerous landing
points constitute the basic infrastructure for maritime transport. The
railway system, the third mode in terms of importance, includes about 6,800
route-km. In 1978, the railway system carried about 29 million passengers
and 4.4 million tons of freight, a slight increase over the substantial losses
incurred during the early 1970s.  Domestic air transport increased rapidly
during the 1970s; the average annual growth rate for passenger traffic was 22%
and the volume of cargo carried in 1978 was seven times higher than in 1970.
River transport has a potentially important role in addressing demand for
movement of people and goods in Indonesia. There are at least 10,000 km of
navigable waterways among about 50 river systems, mainly in Sumatera and
Kalimantan.
B. Transport Development Plans and Financing
2.03      In 1969, GOI initiated its first five-year national development
plan, Repelita I, covering the period through 1973. The following table
shows the amounts allocated to transport in that plan and subsequent plans
and the amounts actually spent. GOI's explicit policy for the sector during
the period 1969-78 emphasized rehabilitation and improvement of existing
transport infrastructure and services rather than an extension of the network
and expansion of the transport industry. The increased allocation to
transport in Repelita III, 1979-1983, partly reflects GOI's new emphasis on
rural roads as an explicit component of its broader rural development
strategy. In addition to the specific transport sector provisions provided in
Repelita III, nearly Rp 600 billion of the Rp 2,100 billion to be allocated by
MHA to the lower levels of government will be spent on roads, mainly kabupaten
roads (para. 2.25).
ALLOCATIONS TO TRANSPORT IN THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS 1969-1983
Repelita I    Repelita II    Repelita III
1969-1973       1974-1978       1979-1983
Transport allocation (Rp billions)  342                500            2,998
Transport allocation as a percent-
age of the total budget             15%              16%              14%
Transport actuals (Rp billions)       297              753/a              -
Transport actuals as a percentage
of Transport allocation             87%              151%/a
Road actuals as a percentage of
transport actuals.                  55%               42%                 50%(est.)
/a Increase due to extra revenue accruing to GOI after 1973 oil price
increase.



2.04      Although GOI has substantially increased its allocations to trans-
port, the system's ability to meet the demand cretated by a developing economy
is far from adequate. The country's size and high population densities in
specific areas coupled with sparse population scaLttered over wide areas make
it difficult and expensive for GOI to pursue a transport strategy aimed at
providing both equal transport facilities to all segments of the population
and transport investments required by the accelerating economic development.
This difficulty is compounded by the high percentage of existing transport
infrastructure, particularly at the kabupaten level, which is still badly
deteriorated and needs considerable rehabilitaticin and often upgrading to
effectively fulfill its function.  These problems are intensified by the
serious shortcomings which exist in the management and operation of existing
transport infrastructure and services. The proposed project will help
identify measures to enable the staff at the kabupaten level to better
address the need for more efficient utilization of the resources available.
2.05      The aggregate value of all direct and indirect subsidies in the
transport sector amounted to roughly 1% of the gross national product (GNP),
or Rp 300 billion in 1979. This amount represents cash subsidies out of the
annual budget. However, the additional economic subsidies are substantially
higher. The economic subsidies for petroleum derivates used in transport
alone are estimated to have been Rp 750 billion in 1980, comparable to the
total transport development budget or about 2% of: the GNP. About Rp 140
billion of these subsidies were required to cover the difference between
production costs and sale revenues of fuel oil used in the transport sector.
In 1980, retail prices of gasoline and diesel (Rp 150 and Rp 45 per liter)
were 36% and 76% below world market rates, respectively. The already serious
burden on the national budget of all existing subsidies in the transport
sector is mitigated by the fact that taxes levied on most users of the road
transport system apparently cover the estimated maintenance and operating
costs of the network. In FY1980, GOI invested Rp 350-400 billion to develop
and maintain the road infrastructure. Road users contributed about Rp 160
billion to these expenditures which is more than the estimated maintenance and
operating costs for the national, provincial, and kabupaten network of about
Rp 100 billion. The main problems with the tax regimes seem to be incidence
and inequities, in particular, commercial vehicles are subject to extremely
low taxes with the result that they contribute only 2% to the cost of
developing and maintaining road infrastructure while accounting for almost 80%
of total road traffic. A first review of the road user taxation system has
been carried out by consultants under the Fourth Highway Project (para. 1.08).
Another consultant team financed under the Fifth Highway Project (para. 1.09)
is presently formulating reform proposals aimed at improving cost recovery in



- 8 -
road transport. During negotiations of the Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project
(June 1981), GOI reaffirmed that, as stated in the Transport Policy of the
Agreed Minutes of negotiations of the Fifth Highway Project, it is the general
policy of GOI to work toward a cost-based system of pricing in the road
transport system.
C. Functional Organizations for Transport
2.06      Three government agencies have prime responsibility for developing
the transport system and organizing its operation. The Ministry of
Communications (MOC) plans, regulates and controls all transport modes, except
highways. Development, maintenance, and administration of the road system are
in the hands of the MPW, through its Directorate General of Highways.
BAPPENAS reviews sectoral investment plans drawn up by MOC and MPW and
prepares jointly with the MOF related financing plans under the development
budget. Both MOC and MPW are large bureaucracies, whereas BAPPENAS is a small
organization of about 100 professionals, with less than ten for transport.
MHA, although not directly involved in the road transport sector, provides a
substantial portion of the funds for the provincial and kabupaten roads
through the Inpres Programs. The highways organization is discussed in paras.
2.12-2.14.
D. The Highway Subsector
The Network
2.07      The non-urban public road network totals more than 300,000 km,
including a network of village roads with an estimated length of more than
200,000 km. The public roads above the village road level total about
105,000 km and are administratively classified /1 as "national" (some
12,000 km), "provincial" (some 27,000 km) and "district" (kabupaten, some
67,000 km), indicating their relative importance and the basis for defining
administrative, financial and executive procedures associated with construc-
tion and maintenance (Table 1). The lengths, type of surface and condition of
the roads for the kabupaten network is shown in Table 2. In addition to the
public road network, agricultural estates and logging and oil companies
construct and maintain their own roads. While systematized data collection
and inventory updating have been used for several years for the national and
provincial roads, DGH has only recently taken steps to extend the data
collection system to include the kabupaten roads on a regular basis.
/1 GOI recently introduced a functional classification for the network:
arterial (roughly corresponding to "national"), collector (to "provin-
cial"), and local (to "district").



-9-
E. Vehicles and Traffic
2.08      In 1978, registered motorized vehicles (excluding military and
diplomatic) totalled about 2.8 million of which about 0.9 million wefe four or
more wheeled vehicles and 1.9 million were motorcycles and, other types of less
than four wheels (Table 3 and 4). The number of vehicles actually in use
is considerably less than the number registered; on the basis of inspection
records in 1976 (the most recent data) only about 80% of trucks and 60% of
buses registered were then on the road. However, even if the higher
registration data are used, the number of four or more wheeled vehicles in
Indonesia is low compared to other similar countries; it is 5.1 per 1,000
persons as against 7.9 in Korea, 14.3 in Thailand, 15.4 in the Philippines and
48.2 in Malaysia. Only about 60% of the four or more wheeled fleet are cars
and many of these are used commercially as taxis. Motorcycles are the
principal private use vehicle but many of these also are in commercial service
as taxis or converted to a tricycle configuration for such use. Almost all
trucks (about 96%) have payloads under four tons. Due to the poor condition
of many of the kabupaten roads, trucks are prohibited from travelling on them,
thus restricting the flow of goods and increasing the cost of transport.
However, the trucks on Java Island are somewhat 'Larger than elsewhere in
Indonesia and the greatest concentration of two axle drawbar trailers is also
found in Java. Indonesia's motorized vehicle fleet has grown rapidly in the
last decade; the total at over 16% per year, four-wheel vehicles at nearly 11%
and motorcycles at nearly 20%. The rise has been particularly fast in the
last three years and has been more rapid in Java than elsewhere.
2.09      No comprehensive information is available on non-motorized road
vehicles in Indonesia. These range from various animal-drawn carts to hand-
carts, bicycles and bicycle rickshaws (becaks). They are used extensively
in the movement of both people and goods and a major component of traffic on
the roads in many areas of Indonesia is represented by non-powered vehicles.
An indication of the orders of magnitude is provided by a recent survey in
the Province of Yogyakarta; in 1978, Yogyakarta, with a population of 2.6
million, had some 240,000 bicycles and 40,000 becaks registered in the
Province, as compared to an estimated 57,000 motorized vehicles.
2.10      Systematic traffic counting has been carried out only on the
national and provincial highways since 1970 by DGH; in addition, periodic
origin and destination surveys are made on the principal routes. The results
indicate that road transport has grown rapidly. The growth rate for truck
traffic has been about 15% p.a. on average betweetn 1972 and 1977, with
somewhat lower growth rates in Java compared with the other main islands.
Passenger traffic during the same period, represented by the number of cars
and buses, has grown by about 11% to 14% p.a. for buses and about 20%
(Sumatera) to 25% p.a. (Java) for cars (including smaller public vehicles).
The trends in traffic growth are largely confirmed by the growth in fuel



- 10 -
consumption and vehicle registration. In the period between 1972 to 1977,
gasoline and diesel fuel consumption increased by about 10% and 25% p.a.,
respectively. The relatively slower growth in gasoline consumption is
explained by the shift from gasoline powered vehicles to diesel fuel (which
is highly subsidized and, therefore, lower priced) powered vehicles, and the
higher utilization of vehicles due to improved road conditions. No
comprehensive traffic counts have been carried out on the kabupaten roads;
however, sample counts indicate traffic levels vary from 2,000 vehicles per
day (vpd) to less than 10 vpd. The average daily motorized traffic in a
sample of five kabupatens (para. 1.02) was 388 vpd of which one half were
motorcycles. In addition to motorized vehicles the kabupaten roads carry
substantial volumes of bicycles, becaks, animal-drawn vehicles and piculs
(shoulder carry) and this volume averaged over the sampled road system about
1,000 units per day.
F. Highway Administration and Planning
2.11      Administration of the public highway network is carried out by the
public works agencies of the various tiers of Government. At the national
level, DGH in the MPW has primary responsibility for road matters (Chart
WB-22133); road agencies at lower levels are respectively provincial public
works agencies (Dinas Pekerjaan Umum Propinsi - DPUP), kabupaten public
works agencies (Dinas Pekerjaan Umum Kabupaten - DPUK) and variously named
works agencies below the kabupaten level. Road agencies at the lower levels
of Government are part of a common system under the control of MHA (through
the Governor) for finance and administration and have access to MPW for tech-
nical guidance. However, the practical application of these constitutional
principles gives rise to subtle and complex arrangements and to an adminis-
trative system with many interlocking and evolving relationships.
2.12      The two MPW Directorates with the most relevance to the rural road
program are DGH and the Directorate General of Housing and Urban/Regional
Development (Cipta Karya). DGH has been responsible for the design and
execution of most major roads works in Indonesia. It also coordinates the
rehabilitation and maintenance and minor construction programs which are
carried out by the DPUPs and DPUKs with central funds and it operates a
national highway equipment pool and highway research and testing facilities.
It thus has at its disposal the largest team of skilled highway technicians in
Indonesia who directly and indirectly influence road activities at all levels
of administration. In addition, DGH has recently been given responsibility
for most civil works at transmigration sites, in particular land clearance
and construction of roads. The new Subdirectorate for Rural Roads (SDRR,
established in 1979) within DGH is responsible for organizing road inven-
tories and other data needed to support provincial and kabupaten road develop-
ment progrims; and yzing locc'l road transportation and traffic; standardizing
planning; developing coa1struttion programs; and developing standard technical
procedures, standards, manuals, and organization and equipment requirements.
Also within DGH is the Directorate of Land Preparation for Transmigration
Settlement which is responsible for land clearing and site preparation within
each selected settlement area, including rural roads. Within Cipta Karya is



- 11 -
the Directorate of City and Regional Planning (TKTD). This Directorate
assists BAPPENAS in providing planning and progranmming guidelines and is
expected to provide BAPPENAS and various other government departments advice,
recommendations, planning and programming assistance, and coordination of a
wide range of programs including kabupaten roads. This agency, directed by a
GOI Steering Committee, carried out the preparation of the proposed rural
roads project.
2.13      The principal organizations at the provincial and kabupaten levels
associated with rural roads in conjunction with the DPUPs and DPUKs are the
Provincial Regional Planning Boards (BAPPEDA I), and the Development Bureaus
and the Kabupaten Planning Boards (BAPPEDA II),/1 respectively of the
Provincial and District Secretariats. DPUPs report directly to the Governor
of the province and DPUKs to the Bupati of the kabupaten, which in turn are
under MHA. Typical organizations for the DPITKs are shown in Charts WB 22892
and 22893. DPUPs have a functional relationship with MPW; the Ministry
provides them with technical direction and some of their senior staff. DPUKs
submit their road plans to the DPUP for review, but they are technically
quite independent. The Development Bureau of the Provincial Secretariat (in
concert with BAPPEDA I) essentially acts, at the provincial level, as the
centralizing agency between the kabupaten, provincial and central agencies
involved in the kabupaten road programs. The Kabupaten Planning Boards
(BAPPEDA II), which are expected to act as the kabupaten arm of the parent
provincial BAPPEDA I, and thus perform much needed planning functions at the
kabupaten level. These have operated in Java since 1979 and were activated
by MHA in January 1981 for the other islands. The organization of the
central, provincial and kabupaten public works organizations in relation to
highway administration is shown in Chart WB-22895. There is no direct line
of communication between the DPUK and the DPUP and requests for assistance
from the DPUK must go through the Bupati to the Governor's office to the
DPUP. Much opportunity for technical assistance to the DPUK is thus lost.
For purposes of this project GOI has agreed to issue a Joint Ministerial
Instruction to be signed by the Directors General of Regional Development
(MHA) and Highways (MPW) approved by BAPPENAS to permit a formalized line of
communication for technical and cost information from the DPUK to the DPUP
and thence to DGH (para. 3.28). The improved communications should result in
better working relationships and, importantly, more timely assistance by DPUP
to DPUK. Chart WB 23108 shows the proposed organization for the project.
G. Manpower Planning and Training
2.14      The increasing volume of work has imposed strains on DGH as well
as the DPUPs and DPUKs. While the permanent staff for DGH has increased by
less than 15% over the past five years, DGH non-permanent employees have more
than doubled over this period and DGH total staff now exceeds 4,000. DPUKs
average about 200 permanent and about 65 temporary staff per kabupaten.
Nevertheless, the shortage of qualified staff remains an important problem
/1 Presently, the islands other than Java have Subdevelopment Bureaus
carrying out the BAPPEDA II functions.



- 12 -
at all levels. A DGH manpower plan has been prepared with assistance from
management consultants financed under the Fourth Highway Project. This plan
formulates DGH needs and how to meet them within the constraints imposed by
the limited supply of technical personnel in Indonesia and the modest pay
scales offered to Government employees. Further work on defining DGH's man-
power needs is being done under the Fifth Highway Project.
2.15      Training has been, and will continue to be, a major element in DGH
manpower management. Training components were included under the Third and
Fourth Highway Projects which emphasized the establishment of training proce-
dures and the production of training material, particularly for skills in road
maintenance, equipment operation and materials testing. The Fifth Highway
Project includes further assistance for training, particularly in management
of DGH training activities, and finances advanced overseas courses for DGH
professional staff. DGH's training program has processed some 5,000 kabupaten
(about 10% of the total estimated staff) staff in road maintenance, equipment
operation and maintenance, and tradesmen since 1979. In addition to DGH's
program, MHA has a Local Government Training Project financed in part through
USAID, whose main emphasis is to strengthen and build-up provincial and
kabupaten development planning capabilities. The first of four regional
training centers was opened in Yogyakarta in 1981. The project will make use
of these existing training programs (para. 3.25 and 3.26). The proposed MPW
Training Project, presently being prepared, will also include training for
contractors.
H. Engineering
2.16      DGH-s road design is the responsibility of the Directorate of
Planning (Chart WB-22133). With about 500 employees, of whom about one-third
are permanent, the design office has demonstrated its capacity to produce
acceptable designs for a broad range of highway and bridge construction, and
to supervise a large volume of design work by consultants as well. In
addition, the design office provides on request technical assistance to
provincial and kabupaten road authorities for design of roads and bridges in
their programs. The Directorate also has the overall responsibility for
developing the engineering capabilities of DPUPs, DPUKs and the highway
consulting industry.
2.17      Design work at the kapub~aten level is the responsibility of the
DPUK. None of the five kabupatens studied possessed any soil testing equip-
ment, and soils investigations are not normally used for design. The drawings
prepared by the DPUK are generally simple, in some cases only a line diagram
and cross sections are used for contracting, in other cases a longitudinal
profile is also provided. Since the DPUKs do not possess equipment for
foundation drilling, few or no investigations are carried out for bridge
design. For bridges under 30 meters, structural design is carried out by the
DPUK, sometimes with the assistance from the DPUP. The structural design of
these bridges is limited, however, since standard designs of DGH are used for
the superstructure. Bridges over 30 meters are reviewed and approved by DPUP



- 13 -
and, in special cases, by DGH.  There is no accurate method of costing at the
kabupaten level. The unit rates provided by the DPUKs vary significantly and
the differences cannot be accounted for by variations in wage rates, transport
costs, quarry prices or other factors. The kabupatens receive little or no
design and survey assistance from DPUPs because DPUPs must use their own
budget when providing assistance to kabupatens. The proposed project will
remedy these deficiencies through training and improving the cost accounting
system which would include a system for payment of assistance from the DPUP.
I. Construction
2.18      Responsibility for highway construction lies with the Directorate
of Construction (Chart WB-22133) of DGH for national highways and some major
works on provincial highways; with DPUPs for provincial highways and some
minor works on national highways; and with DPUKs for kabupaten roads. The
works are executed under a variety of arrangements. Most typical for minor
construction is the use of small contractors who supply labor and local
materials but use equipment and manufactured materials supplied by the
respective road authority. Ten years ago, Indonesia had a relatively small
number of experienced contracting firms capable of executing major road
works, and DGH therefore used mainly foreign contractors on such jobs at
that time, as was the case in the Second and Third Highway Projects. Under
the Fourth Highway Project, DGH prequalified several Indonesian contractors,
provided that these firms made arrangements with foreign firms to supply
experienced key staff. Of the eighteen road sections included in the Fourth
Highway Project, only three were awarded to foreign contractors; five
Indonesian contractors were successful in tendering on eight road sections
(in three cases by application of the 7-1/2% preference clause for domestic
contractors), while joint ventures of Indonesian and foreign firms were
awarded the remaining road sections. Problems were encountered in the early
stages of construction because some contractors lacked experienced staff. On
two contracts,the scope of work had to be reduced to give the Indonesian
contractors a better chance of coping with and managing the remaining work
activities. The performance of the Indonesian contractors gradually improved
and, although the Fourth Highway Project will have an overall delay of two
years, the construction is currently well underway with no major problems
remaining.  Indonesian contractors are also being awarded a high proportion of
the works under the Fifth Highway Project but it is too early to gauge their
performance.
2.19      The DPUPs are responsible for road works financed under the pro-
vincial budgets. Some provinces have force account construction units for
road building. TJnder the Fourth Highway Project, DGH took initial steps to
decentralize the execution of major betterment projects (improvements to
existing roads including upgrading to a stable condition, that is, a design
life of ten years) by establishing Regional Betterment Offices (RBOs) who



- 14 -
are responsible for the technical supervision of the works, while DGH's
Director of Construction retained authority over the nontechnical and
contractual matters. The RBOs maintained an informal liaison with the DPUPs.
With the expansion of the betterment program, DGH has decentralized further by
assigning more responsibilities to the DPUPs. DGH has delegated the technical
and administrative authority for execution of most DGH-financed road better-
ment projects or bridge replacement projects on national and provincial roads
to the DPUPs, provided the requisite experienced personnel for staffing of the
project organization is available at the provincial level.
2.20      The DPUKs are responsible for road works financed under funds pro-
vided to the kabupatens. Only limited new construction is undertaken by the
kabupatens. Most of the existing kabupaten roads were built prior to 1939 and
the works, therefore, are mainly rehabilitation and maintenance of the exist-
ing system. A major part of the road works is handled by local contractors.
The contractors are prequalified and the prequalification standards used
represent a satisfactory means of contractors evaluation. The contractors
execute the work in accordance with the standards imposed by the supervision
authority, but supervision is generally inadequate since the inspector rarely
visits the job site and then only visual inspection is made. A major
requirement under the proposed project is to train kabupaten staff to pro-
vide proper supervision.
J. Maintenance
2.21      Maintenance of the national and provincial roads is carried out by
the DPUPs, partly with provincial funds and partly with funds supplied by
the Central Government, through the budgets of DGH, and the Directorates
General of Administration and Regional Autonomy in the MHA. Maintenance
activities are funded from three budgetary categories, maintenance, rehab-
ilitation and support works. In addition, maintenance is supported through
allocations by DGH to the DPUPs of equipment, bitumen, steel, and other
materials. The budget category "maintenance" covers only routine work on
"stable" roads (those that can be kept in good condition by predictable and
modest expenditures). While the categories "rehabilitation" and "support
works" are essentially similar (equivalent to periodic or heavy maintenance
in other highway systems), the former applies to "stable" roads while the
latter applies to "unstable" roads which represents the bulk of Indonesia's
roads. As this "stable" network is relatively small, the allocations under
maintenance and rehabilitation are modest while those under support works
are -many times this amount. The recently completed studies of DPUPs in eight
preiinces indicate that the amounts spent per km of road under these three
ca;egories have been substantial and are expected to increase in the Third
Plan. However, the average spent (in real terms) in the eight provinces
varied widely over the period 1974 to 1978 ranging from Rp 820,000 (US$1,300)
per km for West Sumatera to Rp 2,000,000 (US$ 3,200) per km for Yogyakarta.



- 15 -
2.22      The results of improved rehabilitation and support works during the
First Plan were excellent so that, by 1973, 95% of the primary network was
open to traffic as against 70% five years earlier, and 60% of the passable
roads were judged to be in good or fair condition as compared to about 15% in
1968. These improvements have been sustained in the Second Plan.
Nevertheless, road conditions could be substantia:Lly improved through better
operations and the DPUP studies identified many deficiencies in the
organization and execution of the works. To correct these would not
necessarily require large additional budget allocations but would require
changes in (a) organization and practices of the financial and road
authorities, and in (b) complex restrictions on the use of funds, the supply
of materials, and the deployment of staff. DPUP improvement programs are
currently underway in 8 of Indonesia's 27 provinces, partly financed under the
Fifth Highway Project. The proposed project will include assistance to Jambi
DPUP (para. 3.02) under a similar improvement program as for the first 8
provinces, and will also include preparation of improvement programs for the
remainder of the DPUPs (para. 3.17).
2.23      The DPUK has the responsibility for maintaining all kabupaten
roads. In some kabupatens, where the DPUK does not have the organizational
capability to handle or where there is no public works organization, the
works are handled at the DPUP level. The concept of "stable" and "unstable"
roads exist also at the kabupaten level. Since most of the present road
system has a useful life of less than three years., the length of roads
considered for maintenance is minimal. However, the kabupatens are further
constrained by lack of funds for maintenance (para. 2.24). The project will
provide equipment for road maintenance and technical assistance for DPUK
staff to introducing measures for more efficient support works and maintenance
activities.
K. Financing and Funding Process
2.24      The Central Government, through DGH, finances construction of
national highways, provincial roads of national and inter-provincial
importance, and support works and maintenance on national highways (Chart
WB 22891) In addition to this assistance, the provinces have use of a
comprehensive development grant, Inpres Propinsi l1, a large part of which is
used on roads and bridges. The provinces also have direct resources from
taxes, royalties, etc., which may be used for construction and maintenance of
roads and bridges. The chief sources of funds /2 for the kabupatens are
/1  Inpres is an acronym for INSTRUKSI PRESIDEN, meaning special programs
established by presidential decrees. Inpres E'ropinsi is the Central
Government grant (processed through MHA) to the provincial level.
/2 There are between 4 and 5 additional sources of funds for kabupaten
roads; however their total contribution is estimatad to be less than 10%
of all road funding.



- 16 -
Inpres Kabupaten, Inpres Jalan, both grants from the Central Government
administered by MHA, and Ipeda, a property tax. The Inpres Kabupaten grant
was established in 1970 and provides funds to kabupatens on a per-capita basis
for the development of economic infrastructure with the major objective of
providing employment. Some 70% of the grant goes to roads and bridges. The
Inpres Jalan, solely for financing construction and rehabilitation of roads
and bridges, was first used in the 1979 budget and was intended to supplement
the Inpres Kabupaten in the less densely populated regions. Since both these
grants were for development, neither was designed to be used for maintenance.
The Ipeda, the only revenue generated by the kabupaten, has 20% of its total
earmarked for maintenance. The actual amount of this revenue is so small
(about 10% of the kabupaten's total budget) that this percentage is totally
inadequate. The Government recognized this failing and in 1980 permitted the
Inpres Kabupaten and Inpres Jalan funds to be used for road maintenance. The
overall budget for roads has almost doubled since 1979 as is shown in the
following table:
ROAD BUDGET ALLOCATION, 1979-81
National and                      Kabupaten
provincial budget   Percent of         budget      Percent of
Rp million           total        Rp million       total        Total
1979          168,093             70%             73,240          30%       241,333
1980          237,157             69%            106,048          31%       343,205
1981          306,550             65%            168,385          35%       474,935
Source:  See Table 5.
Importantly, an increasing share is being devoted to the kabupaten road
system. However, whereas disbursements for the Inpres Kabupatens funded
roads are high, the Inpres Jalan disbursements are low. As of April 1981,
some 80% of the 1979 allocation had been disbursed and only 24% of the 1980
allocation had been disbursed. While the funding and approval process of
Inpres Kabupaten has been substantially adopted for Inpres Jalan, there are
problems with disbursements. Part of the slow disbursement is due to GOI
permitting the kabupatens to undertake projects with implementation periods
longer than one year. There also appears to be some processing problems due
to the relative newness of the Inpres Jalan. The introduction of DGH's
computerized DIP (Daftar Isian Proyek)/l preparation and reporting systems is
expected to overcome curent administrative obstacles to rapid disbursements of
the Inpres Jalan funds. Funding and disbursing procedures will be reviewed
with the appropriate agencies as part of the monitoring services in the
proposed project.
/1 Project Plan within GOI budgeting system.



- 17 -
2.25       The Central Government agencies with principal involvement in the
funding and implementing process for rural roads are BAPPENAS, MPW, MHA and
MOF. BAPPENAS has the primary responsibility for developing national planning
policy, approving planning activities of other agencies and assuring that the
provincial and kabupaten programs are in concert with national goals. MPW is
responsible for implementing the program of development and maintenance of the
national, provincial and kabupaten road networks. However, the funding for
kabupaten roads is processed through MEA.  The process is somewihat involved
because of the system of checks and balances, but it has been efficient in
using scarce funds for agreed specific works.
3. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives
3.01       The objectives of the project are to:  (a) provide better mobility
in rural areas by improving access to isolated areas with development poten-
tial and by improving high priority rural access roads through construction,
betterment and rehabilitation; (b) strengthen the capacity of kabupaten staff
to plan, implement and maintain the kabupaten roacl network; (c) provide a
rural roads support works and maintenance program; and (d) monitor these
activities to provide improved workable management: techniques and work methods
for rural road works and prepare similar programs in additional provinces and
kabupatens. This will be the Bank's first venture in assisting rural road
development and the project would cover about 25 of the 259 kabupatens in
Indones ia.
3.02       Four of the five provinces, in which the kabupatens to be supported
under this project have been selected, are covered under the DPUP improvement
programs now under implementation under the Fifth Highway Project. These
programs will ensure that the national and provincial roads which constitute
the main arterials and collectors in the road network, and are under the
responsibility of DGH and DPUPs, are brought up to reasonably trafficable
standards by DPUPs. This is necessary to support any improvement program for
the rural access roads since the kabupaten road nettwork must feed into a
satisfactory main road network to ensure access tc and from the outside. In
addition, the drawing up and implementation of the! kabupaten road programs are
premised on substantial technical support to the DPUKs by the DPUP adminis-
trations. The only province not already covered is the province of Jambi. In
order to proceed with the kabupatens in this province, it will therefore be
necessary to implement in Jambi a DPUP improvement; program for the national
and provincial roads similar to the programs being carried out in the other
four provinces under the Fifth Highway Project.
B. Project Scope
3.03       The project will comprise a three year time slice of a portion of
GOI's rural roads development program. It includes the following components
(a) rural roads construction, betterment, rehabilitation, support
works and maintenance programs covering all road work activities
programmed over a three-year period in about 25 kabupatens



- 18 -
selected in the five provinces of North Sumatra, West Sumatra,
Bengkulu, Jambi, and West Java (Maps IBRD-15807 and 15808 and
Table 6). To help implement these programs, the project will
finance all the equipment necessary for improved support works and
road maintenance and about 50% of the road construction equipment
required for new construction, betterment and rehabilitation works;
(b)  a DPUP improvement program for the province of Jambi and the
purchase of equipment required for execution of support works and
road maintenance, including tools and workshop machinery;
(c)  establishment of workshops in the selected kabupatens for
preventive maintenance and minor repairs of road construction and
maintenance equipment;
(d)  purchase of miscellaneous equipment to be used by the agencies
involved in the execution of the above road programs; this equipment
would include such items as engineering tools and equipment, and
workshop, training, and monitoring equipment for the selected
kabupatens, DPUPs in the five project provinces, DGH, and MHA; and
(e) consulting services to provide technical support and assistance for:
(i) implementation of the road programs in the selected
kabupatens,
(ii) implementation of the improvement program in Jambi DPUP,
(iii) establishing systems and procedures for monitoring all road
work activities and institutional aspects of the project as
well as sampling and evaluating the development impact of
improved road conditions in the selected kabupatens,
(iv) preparation of further rural roads development programs in
about 100 additional kabupatens, and
(v) preparation of DPUP programs in the 18 remaining provinces.
C. Detailed Project Description
Rural Road Programs
3.04      Road Works.  A separate road works program has been prepared for
each of the kabupatens to be assisted under the project. The programs were
prepared by GOI based on studies directed by a Steering Committee /1 and
carried out by a study team under the Directorate of City and Regional
/1 The Steering Committee is composed of staff from MHA, MPW, MOC, MOF, and
BAPPENAS.



- 19 -
Planning (Cipta Karya) with the assistance of staff from DGH Subdirectorate
of Rural Roads and of consultants, ENEX of New Zealand in association with
BIEC International of Indonesia. The programs cover all road work
activities for which DPUK is responsible:
(a) new construction which includes road andl bridge construction in
new alignments or along existing trails and footpaths, which
generally are not now motorable for 4-wheel vehicles;
(b)  betterment of existing roads which includes widening, minor
alignment improvements, pavement strengthening, new bridges or
bridge strengthening, and drainage improvements; in particular the
programs include reconstruction of many bridges which are in such
poor condition that only light motorizedl traffic (motorcycles and
light four wheeled vehicles) can use them. Restoration of these
bridges will allow the use of larger vehicles providing substantial
savings in unit transport costs./l
(c)  rehabilitation of existing roads that have fallen into disrepair for
lack of regular maintenance, or have been damaged because of adverse
weather conditions, e.g. flooding, or have been subject to local-
ized failures, such as embankment slips and pavement disintegration;
(d) support works to sustain the trafficable! condition on roads whose
running surfaces cannot be kept in that condition by routine
maintenance expenditures (see (e) below); such works would include
the raising of embankments to avoid flociding, regravelling, subgrade
stabilization, shoulder improvements, and major bridge repairs; and
(e) routine works or routine maintenance which would include pothole
patching, periodic grading of gravel roads, clearing of side-ditches
and culverts, minor bridge repairs, and vegetation control.
3.05      The programs cover the three fiscal years from April 1, 1982 to
March 31, 1985, with detailed engineering documentation prepared for the first
year, and an outline of the road works activities for the subsequent two
years. The detailed first year programs for 25 kabupatens have been
prepared by kabupaten staff assisted by the study consultants. During the
implementation of the programs, kabupaten staff will continue to prepare
three-year rolling programs with detailed work pLans for the first year.
The consulting services for provision of technical. assistance to the selected
kabupatens during the implementation phase (para. 3.21) will also include
support to the DPUK and BAPPEDA II staff in preparing the three-year rolling
programs on an annual basis. In general, the kabupatens are already applying
planning procedures which reflect actual needs relatively well. The proposed
planning procedures (para. 4.03) build therefore on present practices but
/1 Of the some 280,000 m of bridges in the country, MPW estimates that 90,000
m are in critical condition and 30,000 m are on the point of collapse.



- 20 -
introduce an increasingly systematic approach to planning, including tests for
minimum economic viability, thereby reducing the inherent risk associated with
a nonquantified, although rational, approach for including roads which may be
premature. The proposed planning procedures as well as the engineering
guidelines are documented in a manual being prepared by the consultants for
use by the participating kabupatens. During negotiations, a draft of this
manual was reviewed by the delegations. It was agreed that this manual, after
appropriate modifications, should be finalized and distributed to the selected
DPUKs by April 30, 1982. Future amendments of this manual would be carried
out in consultation with the Bank. The objective of the proposed methodology
is to introduce as few changes as possible to present practices. This is
achieved through a simple screening procedure supplemented by sample evalu-
ations of representative roads. The approved annual program indicates, inter
alia, the budget estimate for each subproject and whether the subprciject is to
be carried out by force account, contractor, or a combination of the two and
the amount allocated for force account and/or the contractor. The format for
presenting these annual programs was reviewed during negotiations. The budget
estimates are prepared in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
engineering guidelines and which are similar to those used by DGH in preparing
budgets for DPUP support works. The first year programs will be reviewed at
two levels: (i) a detailed technical and budgetary review at the provincial
level by DPUP and BAPPEDA I, and (ii) a review of the consolidated programs at
the central level by a joint technical committee composed of MHA, MPW, MOF,
and BAPPENAS. As part of its regular reporting procedure to the Bank, the
Government will submit, in a timely fashion, copies of each kabupaten-s
approved annual program established using these procedures as well as of the
three-year rolling program to the Bank for review. The Bank review will be
ex post and will insure that disbursements from the loan are made only against
road works included in the annual program and justified by the agreed
screening and evaluation methodology (Chapter 4). During negotiations the
Bank obtained an assurance from GOI that it will include only kabupaten
programs whose subprojects had been prepared using agreed screening and
evaluation procedures. In accordance with these procedures only subprojects
with an estimated economic rate of return of not less than 12% will be
submitted to the Bank for disbursements. GOI could include any kabupaten in
the selected provinces as long as their annual program is prepared using the
agreed procedures.
3.06      A preliminary estimate of the total amount of civil works to be
carried out in the selected kabupatens over the three-year period has been
prepared based on the first-year program for the 25 selected kabupatens and on
the three-year programs for the sample of five kabupatens.  The following
tentative figures have been computed. A total length of about 400 km of roads
will be constructed (about 110 km the first year, 130 km the second and 160 km
the third) and 2,000-2,500 km of roads would be subject to betterment or
rehabilitation (from 600 km to 900 km every year). Major support works will
be carried out on about 2,500 km (about 800 km every year) of roads, and from
4,000 m to 5,000 m of new bridges are scheduled for construction (from 1,200
to 1,800 m every year). However, actual figures may vary substantially. In
addition, the project will establish or improve maintenance capabiliLties at



- 21 -
the kabupaten level, and a system of regular mainitenance of all roads under
the DPUK-s jurisdiction will be introduced. GOI has recently introduced
regulations that will allow increased budgetary aLlocations for support works
and road maintenance under the Inpres Kabupaten and Inpres Jalan programs.
The proposed labor equipment mix has taken into consideration the availability
of labor in Java and Sumatra. While there is an adequate supply of labor in
Java, in Sumatra there is not. Therefore the estimates for the road works
are based on the most economical mix of labor intensive and plant intensive
methods for each area. Briefly, for construction and heavy rehabilitation
labor predominant methods will be used in Java, wlhereas due to the shortage of
labor in Sumatra, equipment predominant methods will be used. For lighter
support works and most maintenance activities, labor intensive methods will be
used in all the kabupatens.
3.07      In 1970, DGH adopted new standards for geometric design of highways
and roads (Table 7). These standards have since ithen been applied flexibly
for design of new construction and betterment worlcs on national and provincial
roads with satisfactory results. During the preparation of the kabupaten
roads programs, the emphasis was put on strengthening or paving existing
roads. However, for new construction and betterment works, the need for
having even lower geometric design guidelines than the lowest category in
DGH-s system became apparent and a proposal to revise and subdivide DGH Class
III or feeder roads standards was formulated (Tab:Le 8). All detailed
engineering of new kabupaten roads or of betterment and rehabilitation work on
existing roads will be carried out applying these design guidelines with due
consideration of economic viability. The application of these guidelines was
reviewed and agreed with GOI at negotiations.
Road Construction and Maintenance Equipment
3.08      The study team has estimated the equipment needs for execution of
the kabupaten roads program in the 25 selected kabupatens. All routine works
and maintenance will be performed by force account, and the proposed project
includes financing of the equipment required for t:his work (Table 9). In the
past, DPUKs have been providing equipment to small contractors for road works,
but steps are being taken to phase out the DPUK equipment borrowing scheme and
encourage the contractors to obtain their own equipment. Toward this end, GOI
intends increasingly to offer a continuity of work to local contractors
through multi-year contracts, which would help contractors to obtain equipment
financing from local banks, or to make leasing or hire/purchase arrangements
with equipment suppliers or equipment leasing firmis. However, it is unlikely
that all the small contractors would be able to purchase or privately lease
the required equipment in the short run. As an interim measure, GOI has
determined that about half of the total value of subprojects will be executed
through a blend of force account work, partial force account with contractors
employed to carry out certain tasks while heavy equipment is provided and
operated by government staff, or by contractors leasing equipment from DPUK or
DPUP. The project will therefore provide financing for about 50% of the
equipment required for construction, betterment, rehabilitation, and major
support works of a capital nature. The remainder of the construction work,
which can be tendered in contracts large enough to attract larger firms, would
be handled by contractors, who will mobilize their own equipment.



- 22 -
At negotiations GOI stated that any equipment provided by GOI to the
contractors will be provided by leasing at rates and on other terms and
conditions comparable to those offered by equipment leasing firms supplying
the same or similar equipment. However, a proviso for this arrangement would
be that the rates offered by the leasing firms reasonably reflect the full
financial cost of supplying such equipment in the particular area. Since the
project would finance road works over a three-year time slice, there would be
a residual value of the equipment at the end of the period because most of the
equipment items would have lifetimes of about 5-8 years. The equipment would
be used in the continuing kabupaten road programs.
DPUP Program for the Province of Jambi
3.09      The Fifth Highway Project includes the implementation of DPUP
improvement programs in eight of Indonesia's twenty-seven provinces. As was
the case with those eight programs, Jambi's improvement program will: (a)
improve the condition of the national and provincial roads in the province
by strengthening maintenance operations; (b) enable DPUP to assume more
responsibility for planning, designing and constructing roads; (c) make DPUP
road operations less costly by improving quality and, hence, prolonging
useful life of the roads; and (d) enable DPUP to provide better technical
support for the road activities at lower levels of government, such as kabu-
patens. A program spanning five years was prepared setting out (a) physical
targets for improved maintenance and all other principal DPUP activities,
such as betterment, bridge replacement, and support works; (b) plans for
equipment maintenance and disposition; (c) personnel plans, including
training requirements and targets; and (d) projected financial needs,
procedures and controls, including budgetary contributions from all sources.
Bank financing in connection with the DPUP improvement program is for
purchase of equipment (Table 9), support works of a capital nature, and
technical assistance. Major support works that will be supported by the
Bank include: (a) asphalt overlays or resealing of existing asphalt roads;
(b) reshaping existing roads and new gravel surfacing; (c) regravelling; and
(d) new drainage works and structures (para. 3.18). DGH staff prepared the
Jambi DPUP program assisted by two individual, expatriate consultants
financed under the Fifth Highway Project.
DPUK Workshops
3.10      Workshops exist cnly i. E f-7 kabupatens and even these have limited
facilities. Although the DPUP workshc.is will, assume some of the responsibili-
ties for maintenance and repair of the road equipr-ent provided for the rural
roads programs, a dramatically increased workload will be -it on DPUK staff.
In order to enable DPUKs to service and carry out preventive mainternance of
the equipment in a proper manner, workshop facilities will be established in
each kabupaten. The project includes a component for the establishment of the
workshops in the selected kabupatens. The preliminary requirements in terms
of land, building, workshop equipment, and staffing have been determined.
During negotiations, the Bank and GOI confirmed the timetable for completing
the detailed review of the workshop requirements and on a GOI action program



- 23 -
that would ensure that the workshops would be substantially completed by
late 1982, in time to provide adequate service for the project equipment.
Miscellaneous Equipment
3.11      The project will procure miscellaneous equipment, such as survey
and drafting instruments, and soils and materiaLs testing equipment, which
the kabupatens need. With the expansion of the DPUP workshop
responsibilities to include also the major repair of the DPUK equipment,
there is a need to provide more tools and workshop machinery to those units.
The training activities to be expanded under the project will require
various kinds of training equipment, such as audio-visual training aids,
overhead and slide projectors, and reproduction and printing machines.
Monitoring of the road work activities will be an extension of the present
computerized control system provided for DGH under the Fifth Highway
Project. This system was developed over the last two to three years and it
is functioning well. More hardware, e.g., computer terminals and printing
units, would be needed to expand the system and link it to monitoring units
in MHA and BAPPENAS. Complete lists of the miscellaneous equipment items
required will be drawn up during the early stages of the implementation
phase when these equipment requirements are identified in detail.
Consulting Services
3.12      The support to be provided under the project to the implementing
agencies will be in the form of technical assistance and guidance. In some
fields, such as construction and equipment management, economic screening
and evaluation, and program preparation, this support will be provided by
expatriate advisors.  In other areas, such as structural engineering, soils
and materials testing, road engineering, and drainage design, where DPUPs
and particularly DPUKs need support, the assistance will be provided by a
special GOI task force of experienced, senior DGH and DPUP staff. Because
of the availability of such seconded staff, GOI is not intending to employ
Indonesian consultants for the kind of advisory services required for the
implementing agencies. Consulting services and the input of the GOI task
force required during the three-year implementaLtion period for technical
assistance activities are as follows:
Estimated number of man-months
Foreign         GOI       Total
DPUK technical support                          250           500          750
Jambi DPUP technical support                     50             -           50
Project secretariat technical support            50             -           50
Preparation of further DPUK programs             50           250          300
Preparation of further DPUP programs             50             -           50
Total                                     450            750       1,200



- 24 -
GOI will provide about 20 experienced staff for DPUK technical support (para.
3.13) and about 10 experienced staff for the preparation of further DPUK pro-
grams (para. 3.16). During negotiations, the Bank received assurances that:
(i) the seconded staff for the DPUK technical support will be assigned to the
project in the provinces by April 1, 1982; (ii) the seconded staff for
preparation of further DPUK programs will be in place starting July 1, 1982;
and (iii) the expatriate advisors will be appointed by July 1, 1982. The
outline of the terms of reference for the consulting services was reviewed and
agreed during negotiations. The Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants'
(August 1981) will be followed. These services are explained in the following
sections.
3.13      DPUK Technical Support.  Technical support services would be
required to assist the DPUK staff in planning, improving, and maintaining the
kabupaten road network. GOI will retain consultants to provide these
services, and the consultants will work in cooperation with the GOI task
force. Consultants have been contracted for work in the DPUPs and these
consultants would provide the core teams to provide assistance in specialized
fields, such as quarry engineering, and cost control and monitoring. In addi-
tion, field teams of 3-4 experts would cover road planning and engineering,
road construction, and equipment operation in each of the five provinces under
the project. The consultants would also be assisting the DPUKs in monitoring
and reporting on physical progress under the various categories of the
kabupaten roads programs.  The services would cover about two years with the
full complement of consultants to get the programs operating and about one
year with a smaller team. The total number of man-months of expert services
from expatriate advisors and from the GOI task force is estimated at about 750
for 25 kabupatens or an average of about 1 man-year per kabupaten over the
3-year implementation period. A large part of the services will be provided
by Indonesian experts in the task force and it is estimated that about two
thirds of the manmonths will be used for such expertise, while the remainder
will be provided by expatriates. GOI will second about 20 qualified staff
(about 500 man-months) to the task force.
3.14      Jambi DPUP Technical Support.  In the eight provinces where DPUP
improvement programs are being implemented under the Fifth Highway Project,
consulting services for technical assistance to the DPUP road administration
have been organized more or less along the same lines as indicated above for
the proposed DPUK technical support, that is, with a central core team and
field teams in the provinces. The technical support to Jambi DPUP will be
arranged as an extension to the ongoing DGH contract for consulting services
for this purpose, but with financing under the proposed project. It is
anticipated that more staff time would be required for the core team, at
present covering three DPUP programs in Sumatra, and 1-2 technical advisors
will be stationed in Jambi. The total number of man-months over a 2-year
period has been estimated at about 50.



- 25 -
3.15      Project Secretariat Technical Support.  The consultants to provide
technical support to the DPUKs would also assist in monitoring the physical
implementation of the kabupaten roads program in the field (para. 3.12). In
addition, the consultants would assist the Project Secretariat in MHA to
better record and review progress of the project. The computerized system
which exists in the DPUPs would be extended to include the DPUK programs
covered under the Project. Technical assistance from expatriate advisors
would be needed for this work, and it is estimated that the number of
man-months required would be about 50.
3.16      Preparation of Further DPUK Programs.  During the preparatory work
for the proposed project, the consultants provided technical assistance to
the DPUK Staff in the selected kabupatens for planning of the programs and
for engineering of the road works. Manuals for various aspects of this work
have been prepared which will be disseminated to all other kabupatens in
Indonesia. The expatriate consultants for the rural roads study have been
training Indonesian counterpart staff from the GOI agencies concerned, DGH
and Cipta Karya, to take over gradually the work in drawing up the programs.
However, preparation of further DPUK programs would still require an input
of expatriate consulting work in addition to the work of GOI staff. It is
therefore estimated that preparation of road programs for about 100 DPUKs
would require about 50 man-months of expatriate consulting services. In
addition, GOI would second about 10 qualified staff (about 250 man-months).
3.17      Preparation of Further DPUP Programs.  The Fifth Highway Project
included a component for provision of technical assistance for preparation
of further DPUP programs in 18 provinces. Howevesr, there has been some
delay in initiating these studies, and in mid-19130, DGH proposed, and the
Bank agreed, to switch the amount and manmonths of consulting services bud-
geted for this purpose to a study of asbuton (natural rock asphalt) develop-
ment for use in road works in Indonesia. It was also agreed to defer the 18
DPUP programs preparation for inclusion under the proposed project. The
number of man-months for this work is estimated at about 50 of expatriate
consulting services.,
D. Project Costs
3.18      The total costs of the project, including physical and price con-
tingencies, are estimated at about US$305 million, including about
US$20.0 million for reserved procurement items. The foreign exchange compo-
nent is about US$126 million. In addition, DPUKs will carry out routine
works and maintenance which have been estimated at about US$18.9 million in
recurrent expenditures over the 3-year period covered by the project.
Details are shown in Table 10 and a summary is given below. The basis for
all costs is April 1981 prices. All costs were reviewed and confirmed
during negotiations.



- 26 -
PROJECT COSTS
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
Project elements                  ----- Rp billion-----  ---- US$ million ----
A. Civil Works /a
1. DPUK programs                58.3    23.2    81.5   93.3    37.2   130.5
2. Jambi DPUP program            3.6      1.7      5.3    5.8      2.7      8.5
Subtotal A                61.9    24.9    86.8   99.1    39.9   139.0
B. Equipment
1. Road equipment /b             1.2    21.5    22.7    1.9    34.3    36.2
2. Miscellaneous equipment /b  0.1        1.2      1.3    0.1      2.0      2.1
3. Vehicles and other
equipment /c                2.0      7.9     9.9    3.1    12.7    15.8
Subtotal B                 3.3    30.6    33.9    5.1    49.0    54.1
C. DPUK Workshops
1. Land and buildings            3.8      0.4     4.2    6.2       0.5     6.7
2. Workshop equipment /b         0.2      2.1      2.3    0.2      3.5      3.7
Subtotal C                 4.0     2.5      6.5    6.4      4.0    10.4
D. Consulting Services               0.6     2.1      2.7    1.0      3.3      4.3
Base Cost                 69.8    60.1   129.9  111.6    96.2   207.8
E. Contingencies
1. Physical                      6.9      6.0    12.9   11.1       9.6    20.7
2. Price                        35.0    13.0    48.0   56.0    20.7    76.7
Subtotal E                41.9    19.0    60.9   67.1    30.3    97.4
Total Project Costs    111.7    79.1   190.8  178.7   126.5   305.2
/a  Excludes depreciation of road equipment financed under the project.
lb Procured under Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
Tc Locally purchased under GOI reserved procurement procedures.
3.19      Cost estimates of the civil works included in the kabupaten roads
programs, as well as for the road equipment for execution of the programs,
were prepared by the study team and have been reviewed by the appraisal
mission and found satisfactory. Basic rates for labor, equipment, and
materials were compiled and applied to estimated quantities and inputs for
carrying out individual road work items. The study team then made a series



- 27 -
of estimates for constructing new roads and improving or maintaining
existing roads under various assumptions for current condition of the roads,
present and future traffic, terrain classification, and availability of
materials. For example the cost for upgrading an earth road in poor
condition to a Class E gravel road in good condition would range from Rp 13
to 15 million per km (US$24,000 to US$30,000 per km), and a new Class D
bitumen sealed road would be about Rp 90 million per km (US$150,000 per km)
[Table 13]. Using the unit prices established through this cost analysis,
and based on a detailed inventory of all kabupaten roads, the study team
then prepared aggregate costs for the overall kabupaten roads program. The
DPUP improvement program for the province of Jambi was prepared and costed
by DGH staff.
3.20      The study team has made an inventory of road equipment holdings in
all 25 kabupatens and determined the additional equipment required for
execution of the roads programs. Under the assumption that the project
would finance about 50% of equipment for road construction (para. 3.08) and
100% of all road maintenance equipment, the study team estimated the total
costs based on unit prices obtained in recent tenders. The cost for the
DPUK workshops was estimated by the study team. The cost of the equipment
for engineering purposes, training, monitoring, etc. (para. 3.11) has been
estimated by the appraisal mission as a lump sum of US$2.0 million which
could be subject to some variation when the detailed lists become available.
3.21      Cost estimates for consulting services to be financed under the
project are based on the estimated number of man-months required. The
average man-month cost for expatriate consultants, including the cost of
travel and allowances (estimated at US$1,500 equivalent per man-month) is
about US$8,500. In addition to these costs, local facilities, related
equipment and materials are estimated at US$750 per man-month. These
estimates are reasonable.
3.22      A contingency allowance of 10% has been added to cover quantity
increases on all items. The uncertainties inherent in the cost estimates
could have justified a larger contingency allowance, but this was not done
because the proposed project is partly supporting a time slice of a program
which could be shortened or lengthened depending on the availability of
funds. The cost estimate also includes an allowance for expected price
contingencies during project implementation (36% of base costs plus
contingencies) based on projected annual inflation rates as follows:
ANNUAL INFLATION RATE
(%)
1981       1982        1983-85
Local component                18           14           10
Foreign component               9          8.5          7.5



- 28 -
3.23      The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been esti-
mated at 38% in average, including equipment depreciation. The foreign
exchange component for imported equipment has been estimated at 100% of CIF
cost at port of entry, while locally procured vehicles and other equipment
(financed exclusively by GOI) has been assumed to have a foreign cost
component of about 80%. For consulting services, the foreign exchange
component has been estimated at 75%.
E. Project Financing
3.24      The proposed loan of US$100 million would cover 35% of total
project costs minus the costs (US$20 million) of equipment under reserved
procurement (para. 3.38). GOI would finance the remaining project capital
costs of US$205 million. GOI would also finance a total of US$19 million of
recurrent expenditures for the three-year DPUK routine works. GOI's share of
the kabupaten roads programs will be financed mainly from Inpres Jalan for
the civil works; however, Inpres Kabupaten will also be used for this
purpose in the early stages of the project until GOI, as it is its intention,
has consolidated funding for the rural roads program under Inpres Jalan.
DGH-s annual development budget will be used for the road equipment and the
Jambi DPUP improvement program, and DGH's or MHA-s annual development budget
for the miscellaneous equipment items and for the consulting services.
F. Project Implementation
Kabupaten Roads Programs
3.25      The Bupatis in the 25 selected kabupatens will be directly respon-
sible for carrying out this project component through their DPUKs. The staff
of DPUK will, in collaboration with BAPPEDA II staff, prepare the rolling
three-year programs with engineering documentation for the first of the three
years (para. 3.05), applying the economic screening methodology established
for this purpose (Chapter 4). DPUK staff, supported by project units, will be
responsible for the implementation of the programs, for execution of part of
the civil works by force account, for arrangement of tenders for civil works
to be carried out by contractors, and for the subsequent supervision of all
works. In addition to road works, DPUK is also responsible for irrigation and
housing, and there is a risk that these areas of DPUK's responsibility would
suffer with the expansion of the road works program. During project
preparation, the study team prepared a preliminary manpower needs and training
program for the 25 kabupatens based on the sample five and taking into account
available DGH programs which are comprehensive and cover managerial, technical
and all operational road related skills. According to that plan, a total
number of about 1,500 additional staff, including about 50 engineers, 500
other technical and administrative staff, and about 950 skilled artisans would
be required in the 25 selected kabupatens. The manpower plan was reviewed at
negotiations, but because of certain changes of the project implementation
procedures introduced after the plan was prepared, it was agreed that a



- 29 -
revised manpower plan was required.  GOI has indicated that the provision of
graduate level engineers is no problem, but since these staff would lack
practical experience they would require to be helped by the proposed technical
assistance.  Staff would also be seconded from DGH as part of their career
development plan. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI that
it will provide additional qualified staff to the DPUKs in adequate numbers
consistent with a short-term manpower plan, satisfactory to the Bank, covering
a three-year period beginning April 1, 1982. This short-term manpower plan,
which will be based on the study team's preliminary plan suitably modified,
will be completed by January 15, 1982 and submitted to the Bank for its
approval. In addition to the short-term manpower plan, GOI also gave
assurances that it will prepare a long-term manpower plan, including permanent
staff positions, for the selected DPUKs by April 1, 1983. The long-term plan
will be submitted to the Bank for its review and comments after which GOI will
take steps to carry out the plan. Notwithstanding the above arrangements for
preparation of manpower plans, GOI during negotiations undertook to appoint by
April 1, 1982 the required number of on-site project managers and assistant
project managers to assist the selected DPUKs.
3.26       Some training for almost all skills related to road works is
already underway through DGH's training programs for DPUK staff. Courses
for training equipment operators, surveyors, and other skills are now given
at regular intervals. There will be a need to have the staff of the selec-
ted kabupatens requiring off site training, especially equipment operators
and mechanics, to have completed these courses prior to the initiation of
the roads programs. GOI has begun the procedures for enrolling the present
kabupaten staff in the DGH courses. This training should be completed by
mid-1982. The remaining new staff will begin training by the start of the
project in existing facilities which will be later expanded under the
proposed MPW Manpower Development Project. During negotiations, the Bank
obtained assurances from GOI that it will enroll an adequate number of
DPUK and project-related staff from the selected kabupatens who have been
identified as requiring further training (estimated at about 2,000 staff) in
the DGH training courses prior to or during the early stages of
implementation of the project road works but not later than July 1, 1982.
3.27       BAPPEDA II staff will attend the nationwide training program,
under the Local Government Training Project, financed in part by USAID and
implemented by MHA. The main emphasis of that effort is to build up and
strengthen regional and subregional development planning staff. The program
includes a basic management training course supplemented by specialized
training in planning studies. During negotiations, the Bank obtained an
assurance from GOI that staff from the selected kabupatens to the extent
possible will be enrolled in these courses.
3.28       DGH would be responsible for retaining the consultants for the
technical assistance to DPUKs and administering their contracts. The
consultants' core team (para. 3.12) will be under DGH's administration while



- 30 -
the consultants' field teams will administratively be attached to the DPUP
office in the project provinces. At present, there is no direct line of
communication between DPUP and DPUK (para. 2.13). The establishment of such
a line of communication will require a joint instruction by MHA and MPW.
GOI confirmed that it will issue this instruction no later than January 30,
1982.
3.29      A major part of road construction and rehabilitation works at the
kabupaten level is executed by local contractors who in many cases get all
or part of the equipment needed from DPUK or DPUP equipment pools. Support
works, maintenance and some construction work are being carried out through
force account by DPUK staff. The project will finance part of the
construction equipment requirements but deployment of this equipment whether
it is for DPUK force account work or for leasing to a contractor, will be
the responsibility of the respective DPUP workshops (assisted by the
consultants and GOI's task force). Maintenance and minor repairs of the
road construction equipment will be the responsibility of DPUK under the
overall supervision and guidance of DPUP mechanical staff. The road
maintenance equipment financed under the project will be allocated
permanently to DPUKs which will be fully responsible for its maintenance.
Major repairs and overhauls of both construction and maintenance equipment
beyond the capacity of the DPUK workshop will be carried out by the DPUP
workshop or through contracts with equipment dealers. During negotiations,
GOI indicated that the joint ministerial instruction (para. 3.28) will
contain the appropriate language to permit a freer flow of resources
required by DPUKs from DPUPs and DGH which will facilitate the above pro-
posed organizational setup for equipment deployment, use, and maintenance.
3.30      Engineering documentation, comprising drawings, specifications,
bill of quantities, and cost estimates, will be prepared for all road works
of a capital nature. The documentation will be prepared by the DPUK staff
with assistance from SDRR.  For road works to be carried out by contractors,
additional contract document will be required, such as instructions to
bidders and conditions of contract. The standard formats for the engineer-
ing documentation have been prepared, and they were reviewed jointly by GOI
and the Bank at negotiations. The DPUK technical staff, assisted by the
consultants, will be responsible for the overall supervision of the road
works, progress reporting, preparation of the necessary input data for
monitoring the work activities, and for preparation of financial statements
suitable for disbursement documentation.
DPUP Program for the Province of Jambi
3.31      DGH will be responsible for the implementation of this project
component.  The amount in the cost estimates for this category of work would
cover an estimated three-year program for Jambi DPUP from April 1982 to
March 1985 (para. 3.32). Although DGH will have the overall responsibility
for program implementation, the DPUP staff will be responsible for the
physical execution in the field.  It is planned that all support works under
the DPUPs will be done by force account, but the possibility of tendering
part of the work has been allowed for in the program.



- 31 -
3.32      The project will also include financing for procurement of road
maintenance and support works construction equipment. The equipment
requirements have been determined (para. 3.08) but it will be difficult to
have all necessary equipment available for the full program of work right
from the beginning of the three-year period covered by the project unless
steps are taken to include this equipment under other tenders or to
accelerate the procurement process. During negotiations, GOI and the Bank
jointly reviewed and agreed on the arrangements for procurement of the
equipment for Jambi DPUP. Some equipment items will be procured through
repeat orders to winners under a recent ICB tender for equipment financed
under the Fifth Highway Project, and other items will be tendered together
with the DPUK project equipment. Scheduling of the first year's support
works has taken into account when equipment will become available for this
program according to these arrangements.
Project Secretariat
3.33      An agreement was reached during negotiations that a Project
Secretatiat will be established in MHA by December 1981 with defined
relationships with DGH to provide general coordination of project activities,
oversee reporting on the project to GOI and the Bank, and organize and help to
carry out the necessary monitoring and evaluation services. The Secretariat
will consist of staff of the Directorate General of Regional Development
(DGRD) in MRA fully supported by SDDR in DGH. Consultants for monitoring and
evaluation services will be attached to the Project Secretariat. The
Secretariat - with DGH support - will give immediate attention to preparing
formats and procedures to be used in support of applications for withdrawal of
proceeds under the proposed loan. These formats are scheduled for submittal
to the Bank for its review by January 15, 1982.
Preparation of Further DPUK and DPUP Programs
3.34      While the study to prepare the first 25 kabupaten roads programs
was carried out under the auspices of Cipta Karya, any future work for
additional DPUK programs would be carried out by the DGH Subdirectorate of
Rural Roads. For this work, the procedures and methodologies established
and agreed during the study for screening, selecting and programming the
road works will be followed but modifications and refinements could be
introduced if required. DGH will also be responsible for preparation of the
DPUP programs for the remaining 18 provinces in Indonesia. It is planned
that studies to prepare both the DPUK and the DPUP programs will get
underway in mid to late 1982 with the target of having them completed in
late 1983 for implementation beginning in April 1984.
Implementation Schedule and Progress Reporting
3.35      A project implementation schedule has been prepared (Table 11).
With regard to reporting on progress for the various project components, the
Project Secretariat with information from the DGH monitoring system, and the
consultants and the GOI task force providing technical assistance both for



- 32 -
the DPUK programs and the Jambi DPUP program as well as for the studies will
issue quarterly progress reports. These reports will eventually be used in
preparing a completion report covering the entire project; preparatLon of
this report will be the responsibility of GOI. During loan negotiations,
agreement was reached with GOI on the project implementation schedu:Le and on
arrangements for reporting progress including preparation of a comp:Letion
report within six months after the closing date.
G. Procurement
Civil Works
3.36      All civil works of a capital nature to be financed under the
project (estimated cost - US$250 million, including equipment depreciation
and contingencies) are divided into subprojects, each of them consisting of all
the road and/or bridgeworks in a road link.        The total number of
subprojects for the 25 selected kabupaten is estimated at about 200--250
annually, or from 600 to 750 over the three-year period covered under the
project. The cost of one subproject ranges typically from Rp 20 million
(US$32,000) to Rp 400 million (US$640,000) with only a few subprojects
exceeding Rp 400 million./l Civil works would be carried out by both force
account (about 30%) and contract (about 70%).  All contract work whether as
part of a DPUK program or possibly the Jambi DPUP program will be based on
unit price contracts. The subprojects to be carried out by contractors
cannot be bulked because the road sections or bridges are scattered over
large areas.  These contracts will be too small to be of interest to foreign
contractors, even if they are established locally. Therefore International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) will not be required. All contracts will be
awarded in accordance with GOI regulations which require competitive bidding
for works exceeding Rp 20 million (US$32,000). For contracts below that
amount, the award is based on prudent shopping from among prequalified
contractors. GOI procedures are designed to promote participation by
indigenous and small firms located in the kabupaten in which the contract is
to be executed. However, since many of the small firms will have to rely on
DPUK or DPUP for heavy equipment (para. 3.08) and the project finances only
50% of the equipment requirements, medium-sized firms that are more likely
to have the necessary equipment will be permitted to participate in bidding
for the civil works. This will be consistent with the GOI regulations that
permit tendering of contracts estimatedat more than Rp 200 million to be
open not only for kabupatenbased firms but also for firms registered at the
provincial level. These contracts account for about 50% of the total value
of work, which corresponds to about 30% of the number of subprojects.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI that works on
individual road links estimated to cost more than Rp 200 million will be
tendered in single contracts and the bidding will not be restricted to
kabupaten-based firms. The procedures as outlined above will permit
efficient procurement under the project.
/1 The average cost of a subproject is about Rp 200 million (US$320,000)
and no subproject is expected to exceed Rp 1 billion (US$1.6 million).



- 33 -
3.37       With regard to administrative responsibilities for arranging
tenders, the Bupati and his DPUK staff will be responsible for civil works
under the DPUK programs and they will be directly responsible for tendering
contracts. Although it is planned that civil works to be financed under the
project in the Jambi DPUP programs will be executed by force account, part
of the works could be let to contractors.  In that case, the same procedures
as outlined above for the DPUK programs will apply, with the Chief of the
Jambi DPUP being responsible for the tender arrangements.
Road Equipment and DPUK Workshop Equipment
3.38       DGH will be responsible for arranging competitive bidding,
whether local or international, for all the equipment. A distinction has
been made between equipment items for which GOI allows international compe-
titive bidding and items for which procurement is restricted to only
domestic manufacturers and suppliers. The Bank will finance only the first
category of equipment items (estimated base cost US$39.9 million) and the
procurement will be made in accordance with Bank Guidelines for ICB. The
other equipment items (estimated base cost US$15.8 million), which comprise
primarily light trucks, jeeps, pick ups, and motorcycles, will be financed
exclusively by GOI under procedures which require local purchase and these
items are therefore treated as reserved procurement.
Miscellaneous Equipment
3.39       This equipment (estimated cost - US$2.1 million) will comprise
items (para. 3.11) with relatively low unit prices as compared to road
equipment.  In the interest of efficiency, equipment items costing less than
US$100,000 each up to an aggregate total of US$2.5 million may be purchased
by prudent shopping by the agencies which will be using the equipment items.
Review of Documents and Procurement Decisions
3.40       Bid documents, and then award recommendations, for equipment
procured under international competitive bidding will be submitted to the
Bank for its approval. GOI will use standardized bid documents and
contracts for civil works acceptable to the Bank.  Individual bid documents
and contracts for civil works will not be reviewed routinely by the Bank
but GOI will maintain copies of the bid evaluation and awarded contracts for
the Bank's inspection.
Consulting Services
3.41       DGH will be responsible for hiring all consultants to be employed
under the project with the exception of a few experts to assist the Project
Secretariat in MHA with the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation



- 34 -
system (para. 3.33), who will be hired directly by MHA. While DGH has
decided to expand the scope of existing consultancies (paras. 3.13 and 3.14)
to include the technical support for DPUKs and Jambi DPUP, DGH intends to
invite proposals from a short-list of consulting firms for the other consul-
ting services, viz., further DPUK and DPUP program preparation. Selection
of consultants and award of contracts will be made after a detailed evalua-
tion of the proposals have been made. If MRA is to hire the consultants for
monitoring and evaluation services, the same procedure would be used.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOI would employ
qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank following the Bank's guidelines for
procurement of consulting services (August 1981).
H. Disbursements
3.42      A schedule of estimated disbursements (Table 12) has been prepared.
Although the proposed project is a road project the disbursement schedule is
not directly comparable to the disbursement profiles established for
previous Bank loans for the road sector in Indonesia. With the exception of
the First Highway Project, which also had a large equipment component but
which had unusual implementation problems being the first Bank operation in
the sector, these loans financed conventional type of projects comprising,
as their main components, construction of individual road sections by
contractors; however, the proposed loan will finance a three-year time slice
of a continuing, but improved road program. In addition, about 40% of the
loan will be used for equipment procurement in the early stages of the
project implementation. The implementation schedule (para. 3.35) is based
on the assumptions that the three-year period for financing of civil works
will be the fiscal years 1983-85, and that equipment procurement will be
completed before the end of fiscal year 1983, that is before the end of
March 1983. However, the disbursement schedule has been prepared allowing
f or lags in withdrawal applications from the third year programs. The
disbursements for civil works is therefore estimated to be made over four
years for the three year time slice and for equipment procurement to take an
additional year. The disbursement schedule was reviewed and agreed with GOI
during negotiations. Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made on the
basis of:
(a)  20% of the total construction expenditures for civil works of a
capital nature carried out by contracts and force account under
both the DPUK and the Jambi DPUP improvement programs;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment; or
100% of the local expenditure of the exfactory price, excluding
identifiable taxes and duties, of locally manufactured equipment;
or 65% of the total cost of locally purchased equipment; and
(c) 100% of the total expenditures for consulting services.



- 35 -
3.43      Disbursements for all equipment procured under ICB will be
documented by contract. Disbursements for miscellaneous equipment (such as
engineering tools and instruments) not procured under ICB will be based on
statements of expenditures certified by the appropriate officials. Civil
works to be financed from the Bank loan include road works executed either by
contractors or by force account. GOI will prefinance the full cost of the
civil works and be partly reimbursed by the Bank. Loan disbursements for
civil works will be made periodically from statements of expenditures based
on "statements of works carried out" certified by the appropriate officials
and on the agreed unit cost applied to kilometers of road completed.  For
civil works in DPUKs, GOI and the Bank would agree on a schedule of costs per
kilometer (including equipment depreciation) for all types of road work
activities (Table 13). This schedule would be updated annually to reflect
actual cost increases or decreases and would be applicable for road works in
all selected kabupatens, irrespective of variations in basic unit rates among
these kabupatens. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from GOI
that by April 1, 1982 and by January 31 of each subsequent year GOI will
submit the proposed unit cost list for Bank review and concurrence. The
Bupati's office, following the normal procedures will forward the DPUK
statements on a monthly basis to MRA. MRA will forward these periodically to
MOF for submission to the Bank for reimbursement. Force account statements
and contractor work statements, if any, for the Jambi DPUP will be processed
by DGH for submission to the Bank.
I. Auditing
3.44      GOI has a formal system of audit where both MOF and MHA audit
regional accounts. In the kabupaten, the Bupati appoints a committee for the
supervision of construction composed of representatives from DPUP, the
Development Bureau, BAPPEDA II, the Financial Division of the Kabupaten
Secretariate and staff members of DPUK chaired by the chief of the DPUK. The
Supervision of Construction Committee (SCC) is responsible for checking and
approving progress payments for contract works and for checking and approving
expenditure plans and payments for force account works. Based on the sub-
mission of these progress payment requests by the SCC, the Bupati authorizes
payment to be made by BRI for the works completed. Records of these payments
are kept by BRI and monthly statements are sent to MHA by the Bupati's office.
DPUKs and the Jambi DPUP will retain all the contract and force account
documentation which will be available for Bank inspection. During
negotiations an assurance was obtained that an audit will be carried out
annually as part of the reporting procedure; GOI will submit this report to
the Bank, within six months of the close of each financial year covering the
kabupaten and the Jambi DPUP accounts. This audit will be carried out by the
Regional and Provincial Inspectorate (Inspektorat Wilajah dan Daerah) of the
MHA. The audit will, inter alia, certify the correctness of the statement



- 36 -
of works carried out and statements of expenditures used as a basis for Bank
disbursement particularly of force account work (about 30-40% of total).
The Bank review of these audit systems will begin in 1982. Recommendations
from this review agreed between GOI and the Bank by early 1983 could be
incorporated into the final stages of this project.
J. Environmental Aspects
3.45      Location of the civil works in the kabupaten roads programs,
whether betterments or new construction, is largely along existing align-
ments of roads, trails, or footpaths, thus minimizing the requirements
for additional land and disturbance to property. Support works and mainte-
nance programs for existing roads will be introduced on all kabupaten roads
in the selected kabupatens and on the national and provincial roads in
the province of Jambi. These programs include features like drainage
improvements, raising of embankments to avoid flooding, gravelling of earth
roads, and bituminous sealing of gravel roads, all of which will improve
the environmental conditions along the roads.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      The proposed project represents the first Bank Group lending opera-
tions to support the development of Kabupaten (district) roads in Indonesia
(para. 3.01) and is a logical extension to past efforts to develop the
national and provincial road network (paras. 1.07-1.10). The concept of the
project originated in 1979 when GOI introduced the Inpres Jalan for financ-
ing kabupaten roads and bridges (para. 2.24). The needs as identified by
GOI were to improve the quality of the rural road works and to systematize
the present method of project selection at the kabupaten level. GOI with
the help of consultants has introduced such systematized and simple proce-
dures for project selection which includes the quantification of economic
benefits. This procedure has been tested in the five sample kabupatens
(Annex 1). The procedure uses the cost per capita and/or the cost per
hectare to determine the economic ranking for each subproject. For the five
kabupatens which were investigated in detail during project preparation the
total length of roads was about 300 km per kabupaten, population ranged from
some 300,000 to over 1 million with densities averaging about 900 persons
per sq km in Java and 180 in Sumatera (para. 1.02). The main economic
activity in all the kabupatens is agriculture; rice cultivation is
predominant everywhere, followed by sugar and coconuts in Java and pa'm oil
and rubber in Sumatra.



- 37 -
4.02      The proposed project will assist in financing a three-year slice
(1982/83-1984/85) of GOI's longer term rural road improvement program as
detailed in paras. 3.03-3.05. The basis for this program is the individual
kabupaten programs, which in turn are divided into a number of subprojects -
construction, betterment, rehabilitation of specified roads and bridges as
well as support and routine works. For FY81, the typical size of the kabu-
paten budget devoted to road works was about Rp 630 million (US$1.0 million)
including about 5-8 subprojects, and excluding support and routine works.
The average length of road works has typically been between 5 and 10 km and
the improvement cost for a subproject, US$200,000-250,000. A few typical
cases of subprojects included in the first year (FY1983) are given in Annex 2.
The FY1983 programs will increase about 40% in West Java, North Sumatra and
Bengkulu and about double (from a low base) for West Sumatra and Jambi over
the FY1981 programs. The subprojects included in the approved program are
of course selected from a considerably larger number of proposals and it is
the kabupaten subproject review and program preparation process which is
critical for justification of the overall GOI program. Considering that
there are 259 kabupatens in Indonesia, the overall GOI program in any given
year may include some 1,500 approved subprojects of significance, selected
out of some 3,000 to 4,000 proposals. This will enable only a broad overall
review and sample examination by the Central Government agencies involved
(MHA, MPW, BAPPENAS and MOF) and it is for this r(eason that the GOI has
considered it important to strengthen the kabupaten planning and programming
capabilities and introduce the simplified procedures.
B. Subproject Preparation and Program Review
4.03      Kabupaten staff (DPUK and BAPPEDA II), under the direction of the
Bupati, are responsible for preparation of annual and rolling three-year
programs (para. 3.25). The process by which the provincial and central
governments review these programs is outlined in para. 3.05. The Bank would
review the programs ex post. The procedures to be followed in the
preparation of these programs had to consider that the number of road
sections which could be included in the average kabupaten's road program is
large, and the usual procedures for traffic surveys and intensive road
condition surveys would be too costly and time-consuming. Therefore simpler
road condition inventory was selected and population and land use data were
substituted for traffic counts. The procedures used data readily available
at the kabupaten level; maps showing population densities, land-use, arable
land area, and data on regional "exports" of nonagricultural commodities.
These data are supplemented by standardized tables showing vehicle operating
cost savings and increased producer surplus for defined road improvements.
An example of the use of these data is shown in t'he attachment to Annex 1.
The emphasis on population reflects many personal mobility needs and the



- 38 -
considerable volume of passenger traffic recorded on these roads, but also
considers social concerns and accessibility to health and education services
as well. A project objective is that programs will be prepared and the
subprojects evaluated on the basis of procedures outlined in Annex 1. The
requirement is that the kabupatens follow such project identification,
screening and selection procedures for their entire road program. Some
subprojects in the programs will not meet the minimum acceptable economic
rate of return (ERR) of 12% due to their political, social, or other
noneconomic objectives, but GOI expects thse to be less than 20% of the
total program and hopes eventually to reduce them to zero. All subprojects
proposed for Bank financing will have an ERR of at least 12%.
4.04      The simplified project evaluation and selection procedures are
supplemented by sample evaluations of individual roads to check the consis-
tency and representativeness of the applied screening criteria. These
sample evaluations, representing about 10% of each year's program in terms
of costs, also provide a useful check for the provincial and central govern-
ments and the Bank because a detailed review will not be possible. The
samples would provide an annual updating of the cutoff point for cost per
capita and cost per hectare to meet the minimum ERR of 12%. This cutoff
would be provided in each annual program sent to the Bank. Initially, the
sample will be conducted by SDRR at the central level assisted by
consultants and eventually be transferred to the provincial authorities as
their planning capabilities increase. The Subdirectorate will also
regularly update the standardized benefit tables as well as indicate cut-off
rates for screening criteria applied (maximum costs per beneficiary and
land-area). The sample evaluations will include all necessary surveys to
enable the calculation of ERRs for each of the sample roads at reasonable
accuracy (of a project feasibility study). For monitoring and subsequent
evaluation purposes, data on a selection of these sample roads will be
collected annually up to five years after their completion, and the
necessary project monitoring requirements (road inventory, traffic,
population, land use and market surveys) with related reporting systems
were confirmed during negotiations (para. 3.33).
4.05      The above simplified procedures are applied on all roads but will
be supplemented by additional studies in the following cases: (i) where a
particular subproject is considered important by the Kabupaten/provincial/
national authorities lthough it does not meet the minimum screening
criteria; (ii) for subprojects which are intended to provide access to
presently sparsely populated and underutilized areas with significant
development potential (so-called development roads); (iii) for main
Kabupaten collector roads which carry considerable volumes of through
traffic and serve fairly well developed areas with benefits derived from
reduced transport costs to motorized traffic. In none of these areas does
the simplified evaluation method provide sufficient information for
decision-making. A sample of both development and collector roads will be
included for monitoring. The collector roads represent a significant
portion of roads included in the first year program and Annex 2 provides a



- 39 -
description of a sample of them.  It is expected that the number of
development roads will gradually increase as a percentage of the annual
program, as the main Kabupaten roads are gradually improved.
C. Overall Economic Evaluation
DPUK Civil Works Programs
4.06      The economic evaluation concentrates on the quantifiable benefits,
that is, those arising from the road improvements (para. 4.07). The benefits
for technical assistance for advisory services, training and monitoring along
with associated tools and equipment are nonquantifiable and are not included
in the ERR. The provision of road maintenance equipment, tools and machinery
as well as technical assistance for evaluating other provincial programs is
also not included in the quantifiable benefits but it is considered essential
for additional kabupatens to be integrated in the rural roads development
program.
Costs and Benefits
4.07      The road betterment and support works economic costs used in the
economic evaluation are based on the estimated costs of operating equipment
and actual costs of employing labor in the sample project road areas. The
estimated costs per km for works in the first year program range from
Rp 10.5 million (US$16,800) to about Rp 100 million (US$160,000). Shadow
pricing of labor was not used because the estimated costs for the civil
works (including the cost of labor) vary +20% and this variance exceeds the
cost component of unskilled labor in many of the capital projects. Applying
estimated shadow wage rates to these figures would not significantly
increase or decrease a given subproject's ERR but could adversely skew
marginally justified projects whose costs were underestimated. Benefits
for the first year program for the sample five kabupatens included vehicle
operating cost (v.o.c.) savings and producer surpluas benefits. In the first
year program, v.o.c. savings substantially outweig'hed producer surplus
benefits reflecting the urgent need for betterment and support works on the
existing road system. Benefits for the remaining years considered both
v.o.c. savings and producer surplus benefits from incremental production.
4.08      Using the simplified methodology with the standardized tables
about 240 road and bridge sections totalling just over 1,400 km of the five
sample kabupaten's total network of 1,625 km were analyzed (para. 4.03).
Most of these works would be completed in one year. This analysis con-
sidered each of the road improvement programs proposed by the kabupatens as
well as other road segments identified by the consultants as being in need
of improvement. Of the roads included in the first year's program, almost
all are highly trafficked roads in poor condition requiring immediate
improvements. ERRs as estimated by this simplified methodology for this
program ranged from 12% to over 100% with an overall ERR greater than 25%.
The high average ERR on some 1,400 km out of 1,600 km is a good indication
of the poor condition of roads at the kabupaten level. One important
conclusions from these initial intensive analyses was that an overwhelming



- 40 -
majority (some 80%) of the road projects proposed by the kabupatens for
inclusion in the Inpres Kabupaten and Inpres Jalan programs for the
subsequent year were feasible./l
Main Beneficiaries and Employment Impact
4.09      The roads to be improved and maintained under the project are
essentially routes connecting the rural population with major or minor
markets and the improved roads will benefit them by improved transport
services at reduced transport rates resulting in:
(a) increased contact with agricultural and other extension workers,
who will be provided with easier access to remote villages;
(b) increases in the quantity and improvements in the quality of
their yields through more reliable, lower cost delivery of
agricultural inputs; and
(c) subsistence farmers being able to switch cropping patterns from
subsistence to cash crops.
During the three year implementation period, project works would generate
for all the selected kabupatens an estimated 28,000 man-years of labor and
Rp 11,800 million in wages.
Jambi Improvement Program
4.10      The Jambi DPUP improvement program (including both betterment and
support works) will be based on road condition inventories and will specify
program targets to be achieved for improved road conditions. Although
improvements in road conditions would be attributable to the program as a
whole, improvements would primarily reflect investments in maintenance
equipment, improved funding and procedures applied to maintenance. The ERR
for these works is about 30%; some of the maintenance projects will have
substantially higher ERRs. The project element will benefit both the public
and private sectors, the former through significant economies in government
expenditures resulting from reduced maintenance costs and improved
operations of highway authorities, and the latter through road user and
development benefits. Since a broad spectrum of the population makes use of
the roads in Indonesia and only a few are well enough off to operate their
own motor vehicles the improved roads will serve large numbers of
nonmotorized vehicles and pedestrians representing the more disadvantaged
strata of society.
/1  While the risk of uneconomic projects is low now, the value of utilizing
the systematized economic evaluation procedure will increase over time
as the difficulty of identifying economically justified projects
increases. The realtively low ERR of 12%, while somewhat higher than
the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 10%, also considers that
many of the subprojects will be for development oQ areas whose benefl-
will svtbstantially lag the completion of a road, e.g., tree crops.



- 41 -
Overall Economic Rate of Return
4.11      Based on the analyses of the five sample kabupatens, and the esti-
mated ERR for the Jambi Improvement Program (about  5%  of the total proj-
ect cost), a conservative estimate of the overall ERR is about 25%. An
increase of 20% in investment costs or a reduction in benefits of 20% would
reduce ERR to about 20%.
D. Project Risk
4.12      Because the great majority of kabupaten roads are in such poor
condition, there is no significant risk that road works included in the
project would be uneconomic. However, the Bank's eaxperience with previous
projects in Indonesia indicate there are the risks of slow performance and
inadequate maintenance. To avoid slow performance on this project, GOI had
started the internal procedures for equipment procurement during project
preparation. In addition to this, GOI has begun training of the kabupaten
staff and an assurance will be sought from GOI that additional qualified
staff will be assigned to the project. The civil works are being prefunded
by GOI, and problems of slow performance arising from funding procedures
would be reviewed with the appropriate agencies as part of the monitoring
exercise. In addition, because the projects are mostly small road segments
averaging about 6 km, taking less than one year to complete, they are not
expected to encounter serious delays. GOI is aware of the inadequate
maintenance problem and has already taken steps at the kabupaten level to
overcome this by providing funding for support works and maintenance in the
Tnpres programs. While these risks are not inconsiderable, they are
considered acceptable because of the above discussed safeguards.
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following loan covenants:
(a)  GOI will prepare each kabupaten road development program to be
included in the project according to agreed procedures (para.
3.05);
(b) GOI will: (i) assign about 20 experienced staff to the project
for DPUK technical support in the provinces by April 1, 1982; (ii)
assign about 10 experienced staff to the project for preparation
of further DPUK programs starting July 1, 1982; and (iii) appoint
the expatriate advisors by July 1, 1982 (para. 3.12);
(c)  GOI will:  (i) provide additional qualified staff conistent
with an agreed manpower plan and will ha-ve the required number of
on-site project managers and assistant project managers assigned
to the project not later than April 1, 1982; and (ii) prepare by
April 1, 1983 a long-term manpower plan includir,g permanent
positions, for the DPUKs and submit the plan to the Bank for its
comments (para. 3.25);



- 42 -
(d)  GOI will enroll an adequate number of DPUK staff from the kapupatens
and other selected staff participating in the project in the DGH
training courses not later than July 1, 1982 (para 3.26);
(e)  GOI will enroll BAPPEDA II staff to the extent possible from the
selected kabupatens to attend management and planning courses
in the Local Government Training Project (para. 3.27);
(f)  GOI will establish a Project Secretariat in NHA with defined
relationships with DGH (para. 3.33);
(g)  GOI will tender in single contracts civil works for individual roads
links estimated to cost more than Rp 200 million (para. 3.36);
(h)  GOI will employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.41);
(i)  GOI will, by April 1, 1982 and January 31 of each subsequent year,
submit the proposed unit cost list for Bank review and concurrence
(para. 3.43); and
(j)  GOI will, within six months of the close of each financial year,
submit an audit report covering the kabupaten and Jambi DPIJP
accotnts (para. 3.44).
5.02      During negotiations, GOI and the Bank reviewed and confirmed
the following:
(a)  the design guidelines for kabupaten roads (para. 3.07);
(b)  any equipment provided by GOI to the contractors will be provided
by leasing at rates and other terms and conditions. Comparable to
those offered by equipment leasing firms supplying the same or
similar equipment (para. 3.08);
(c)  the terms of rfference for consulting services (para. 3.12);
(d)  the cost estimates for the project (para. 3.18);
(e)  the arrangements to facilitate the organizational set up for
equipment deployment, use, and maintenance (para. 3.29);
(f)  review of standard formats for engineering documentation
(para. 3.30);
(g)  a detailed timetable for the procurement of the equipment
for Jambi DPUP (para. 3.32);



- 43 -
(h) the project implementation schedule and arrangements for
reporting progress including preparation of a completion
report (para. 3.35); and
(i) the schedule of estimated disbursements (para 3.42);
5.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$100 million
equivalent to the Government of Indonesia for a period of 20 years, including
a grace period of 5 years.



-44-
Table 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Public Highway Network - Type of Surface
National        Provincial        District
Type of surface        highways          highways           roads            Total
Km     %         Km      %KM                        KM
Paved                8,272   70       14,002   52      28,667   42      50,941   43
Gravel               2,176   18        6,049   23       9,485   14       17,710   21
Earth                1,373   12        6,533   25      28,722   44      36,628   36
Total         11,821  100      26,584  100       66,874  100    105,279  100
Note:  West Irian (Provincial Highways), and Timor Timur not included.
Source: Ministry of Public Works
July 1981



INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Kabupaten Roads by Surface Type and Condition
Type of surface and condition
Total                    Asphalt                               Macadam                                 Gravel                                 Earth
length                                   Heavily                               Heavily                                Heavily                                Heavily
Province /a              (km)         Good      Fair   Damaged  damaged   Good         Fair   Damaged  damaged   Good        Fair   Damaged  damaged   Good         Fair   Damaged  damaged
Aceh                    4,460.0         68.8      22.0     16.0      1.3      57.4      44.4      49.3      5.8    467.8    544.3    514.5        29.4    465.9    884.8  1,097.9    190.4
North Sumatera          4,888.0      1,100.7    324.9    140.8    30.6       391.3    214.8    397.7    219.3    143.3        45.8      63.2      27.7    663.1    352.7    351.5    420.7
Riau                    1,408.4         38.1      3.1      11.2      2.6       6.4       -         6.3      3.3      51.9      -        24.3      13.7    576.0        6.5    351.8    313.2
South Sumatera          2,443.0         81.1      5.9      66.4    48.5      116.6       1.8     36.7      71.9    160.5       0.4      70.2    108.9    527.6         9.9    425.9    710.6
Lampung                   600.0         76.7      15.9     19.5    11.9      206.5       1.5      43.5     26.5       -        -         -         -       152.2       1.3      9.5      34.9
West Java               6,827.0      2,546.6    676.2    639.8   151.4       405.6    390.4    267.2    107.9    232.7    152.8    124.2          42.3    424.1    320.8    228.1    115.5
Central Java            8,526.0      3,167.5  1,283.9    766.8   240.9       352.5    377.4    305.2    168.0    211.5    151.9         85.3      45.4    574.6    439.2    212.0    144.2
D,I. Yogyakarta         1,236.0        228.5    178.9      73.8      3.8      45.7      32.4       5.2      2.7       9.6     72.7      11.8       -       156.7    308.9      98.0       7.5
East Java               8,820.6      4,117.1    756.0    509.6    70.3       431.2    465.2    440.3    164.2    145.7         90.3     93.3      23.7    324.6    843.7    270.8        74.4
East Nusa Tenggara      2,547.0          6.1      0.2       0.4      0.2      29.1       0.9      33.0     47.1      20.1       2.1     10.6      51.2    950.6       68.4    590.9    736.1
North Sulawesi          2,472.0        183.5      44.0     59.2    30.2      232.0      32.5      52.3     28.2    123.2       0.8      40.7      15.3    561.1       24.3    316.5    728.2
South Sulawesi          4,365.n        153.1      9.4      27.5    24.9      545.1       9.7    225.3    249.8    537.4        3.3    189.4       85.9  1,230.0      64.4    467.7    542.0
Central Sulawesi        1,542.0         92.9      19.3     13.0      2.9      75.6       2.4     42.8    to4.2    198.6         1.1     77.8    147.5    398.0         8.0     85.2    272.8
West Sumatera           3,512.0        146.2    446.4    107.3    86.3         -         -         -        -       276.6    334.8    461.6    242.9        84.5    186.9    226.0    913.4
Jambi                   1,248.0          5.8      34.6      -        -         -         -        -         -       109.2      38.5     76.5       6.0    168.5    205.9    517.9        85.0
Bengkulu                1,520.5          -       33.4       -         -        -         -        -                   -      233.8      18.5       -         -        -         -    1,234.8
West Kalimantan         1,582.0        14,.0    198.0       -        -         -         -         -        -       200.0    112.0      15.0      12.0    137.0    192.0    519.0    183.0
East Kalimantan           188.8          4.9      30.2     15.9    16.8        -         -        -         -         2.6       5.9      4.7      14.8       3.7      11.9      3.3       3.9
South Kalimantan        1,472.4         12.8     22.5      60.7    87.5        -         -        _         _         4.6     94.6    112.0    198.1        33.2    145.2    233.2    467.8
Bali                    1,638.0        290.5    256.4    112.9    50.0         -         -                            0.5     27.5      52.0      81.5       4.5      67.5    247.7    446.9
West Nusa Tenggara      1,197.4        119.3    142.2      86.6      9.3       -         -         -        -        19.3     23.6      84.8      13.8      44.5    191.3    281.6    281.1
Central Sulawesi        1,358.7        191.7      26.5      2.5      2.0                           -                 18.0    119.0      29.5      22.0       -        19.1     47.7    800.7
Maluku                    929.0         19.0    144.5       8.5      -         -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -       104.0     92.0    561.0
Irian Jaya              1,250.3          -       171.8     64.3    17.3        -         -        _         _         _       37.8      16.8      37.8       -      214.9      97.9    591.7
Central Kalimantan                          -               -         -        -         -         -                       -        -         -         -              -        -         -
D.K.I. Jakarta          1,020.0          -        -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -      982.0       -         -         -        38.0      -
Total             66,874.8    12,665.1  4,846.2  2,695.4   888.7   2,895.0  1,573.4  1,_04,8  1,198.8  2,934.1  3.155.0  2;176c6  1,219 9  7,n80.4  4,709.6  6,722.1  9,759.8
 ------------ 21,095.4 ----------- -__________  7,572.0         -- ------------ 9,485.4 ------------  ------------ 28,721.9 ------------
/a Excluding Timor Timor.
Note:  The statistics for the provinces of North Sumatera, Riau, South Sumatera, Lampung, West Java, Central Java, D.I. Yogyakarta, East Java, East Nusa Tenggara, North Sulawesi,
South Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi are based on inventories undertaken for the MPW in 1979 and 1980. All other data are based on provincial and kabupaten records.
Source: Ministry of Public Works.
July 1981



-40-
Table 3
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicles Registered, 1968-78 /a
Total
Total     Motor-      motorized
Year          Cars /b    Trucks      Buses /c   4-wheel   cycles /d   vehicles
1968         201,743      93,417      19,612    314,772    308,404         623,176
1969         212,124      95,660      20,497    328,281    336,597         664,878
1970         238,924    102,975       23,541    365,440    440,005         805,445
1971         256,988    112,877       22,562    392,427    510,764         903,191
1972         277,210    131,175       26,488    434,873    615,220    1,050,093
1973         307,739    144,060       30,368    482,167    720,056    1,202,223
1974         337,789    166,457       31,439    535,685    944,734    1,480,419
1975          383,061    196,416      35,103    614,580  1,191,771    1,806,351
1976  ,       420,488    222,310      39,840    682,638  1,417,228    2,099,860
1977          479,335    278,979      48,089    806,403  1,704,964    2,511,367
1978          520,652    311,048      55,548    887,248  1,898,424    2,785,672
% Average Annual Growth
1968 - 1978          9.9        12.4        11.0        10.9        19.9          16.2
1968 - 1973          8.8         9.1         9.1         8.9        18.5          14.0
1973 - 1978         11.1        16.6        12.8        13.0        21.3          18.3
/a  Includes all registered vehicles, including non-operational ones, except
military or diplomatic vehicles.
/b  Includes taxis and jeeps (4-wheel drive).
/c  Includes microbuses.
/d  Includes motorcycles, motor scooters and motorized bicycles.
Source: Directorate of Traffic, Police Headquarters.
August 1980



-47-
Table 4
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registrations - Geographic Distr:ibution, 1978 /a
Motor-
Area                     Cars      Buses      Trucks       cycles /b         Total
Java                  405,853      31,225    194,914    1,277,276    1,909,268
West                 91,881       5,286      55,491       229,197       381,855
Central              48,745       4,716      45,917       303,042       402,420
East                 76,920       4,769      45,839       378,081       505,609
Jakarta             188,307      16,454      47,667       366,956       619,384
Sumatra                74,542      15,855      72,550       366,886       529,833
North                41,924       7,431      37,100       214,792       301,247
Central              10,328       2,798      11,664        54,312        79,102
South                22,290       5,626      23,786        97,782       149,484
Kalimantan              13,379       2,045     10,696         77,960       104,080
Sulawesi                13,492      4,330      19,394       107,997        145,213
Other Areas             13,386       2,093     13,494         68,305        97,278
Indonesia             520,652      55,548    311,048    1.,898,424    2,785,672
/a  Includes all registered vehicles, including non-operational ones, except
military or diplomatic vehicles.
/b Includes motorcycles, motor scooters and motorized bicycles.
Source: Directorate of Traffic, Police Headquarters.
August 1980



INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Network Program, Budget Years 1979/80, 1980/81 and 1981/82
National budget                    Provincial budget                                Kabupaten budget
Fixed budget       Discretionary budget       INPRES kabupaten           INPRES Jalan
Length      Length                  Length                 Length                   Length                  Length
Road function              (km)       (km/m)      Rp'000       (km/m)     Rp'000      (km/m)       Rp'000      (km/m)       Rp'000      (km/m)     Rp'000
Fiscal Year 1979/80
Arterial                15,200    22,179/a  137,449,000   8,906        8,316,000   8,973       22,328,000
7,630/b                 9,193/c                8,172/c
Collector               21,300
Local (rural)           67,000                          -        -                      -               -   5,681      60,511,000   1,728    12,729,000
Fiscal Year 1980/81
Arterial                15,200    17,752/a  176,909,160   8,071    22,750,400   9,374          37,498,000
9,639/b                 6 781/c                9,937/c
1,283/b
Collector               21,300
Local (rural)           67,000          -               -       -              -        -               -  10,096      80,526,000   4,360    25,522,000
12,870/c                 2 525/c
1,721/b
Fiscal Year 1981/82
Arterial                15,200    26,815/a  224,477,000  10,484    29,936,000  10,4j27        52,137,000
10,69b                   5,306/c               11,500/c
2,217/b
Collector               21,300
Local (rural)           67,000                          -       -              -        -               -    -        114,140,487  14,297    54,245,000
20,780/c                 14,898/b
Total               103,500    66,746/a  538,825,160  27,461    61,002,400  28,774    111,963,000  31,491    255,177,487  20,385    92,496,000
27,960/b                21,280/c               29,609/c                 33,650/c                  2,525/c
/a Including development and betterment roads.
7T Bridge replacement.
/c Bridge maintenance.
Source: Ministry of Public Works.
July 1981
a-



-49-
Table 6
INDONESIA
RURAL ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STUDY OF 25 KABUPATENS
Preliminary Survey and Assessment of Road Conditions - April 1981
(km)
Total          Asphalt                 Gravel                     Earth
Kabupaten                    (1981)   Good   Fair   Bad   Good   Fair           Bad    Good   Fair        Bad
West Java
Cirebon                      236       90    106    34         -       -        -        2       4        -
Majalengka                   165       40      42    72        1       -        5        -       -        5
Bogor                        590      284       -   142    104        40        -        -       -       20
Sukabumi                     568       73    215    43        52    154        31        -       -        -
Pandeglang                   489       74       -   128       11      34       57        2      11      172
Ciamis                       282      168       -    44       19       -        6        -       -       45
Lebak                        295       36      56      5       -      53       73        -       -       72
2,625      765      49   468    187    281         172        4      15     314
North Sumatra
Deli Serdang                 539       71      80    20       20      24       95       37      40       52
Dairi                        213       20      30    34       10      14       29       10      18       48
Tapanuli Selatan             857       76       -    16    203         -      123        -       -     439
Asahan                       430        8       2    50        5      22       25       39      23     256
Simalungun                   668      133      34   L08       64      34     133        45      31      86
Nias                         297       40       -    22        -       -       31        -       -     204
3,004      348    246   250    302         94     436      131    112   1,085
West Sumatra
Sawahlunto S:ijunjung        340       10       -    15       70       -     101        30      -      105
Solok                        695       36      27    46       38     55       29         2     17      255
Pesisir SelaL..an            307       17      19      -      27       -      128        -       -     116
Pariaman                     428      120       -    40       75       -      675       34       -       94
1,770      183      46   101       20     55      513       75      17      570
Jambi
Batanghari                   300        -       4      3      68       -       27        -    133        65
Bungo Tebo (Muara Bungo)  206 /a    -           -      -       -      18        -        -       -      188
Kerinci                      236        -      11    13       33      14       32        -       -      133
Sarolangun                   "02        -       -      -      10      23      104        -       5      60
Tanjung Jaburg               248        -      17      7      10       -        2        -      64      148
1,192        -      32    23    121       55       165        -    202      594
Bengkulu
Bengkulu Selatan             382       12       -      6      44       -       19        8       -      213
Bengkulu Utara               651               18             28       -       55             200      250
Rejang Lebong                379        1      17      6       -      45      107        -      56      147
1,412       13      35    12       72     45      361         8    256      610
Total                  10,003   1,308    778   854    892    530   1,647            218    602   3,173
/a  Does not include for approximately 250 km Transmigration roads which will be transferred to
kabupaten jarisdiction after April 30, 1981.
Source: ENEX/BIEC International, Inc.
July 1981



INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DGH Geometric Design Standards /a
Primary Highways                                              Secondary Highways                                                   Feeder Roads
I                               Il-A                          11-B                             Il-C                            III
Moun-       Flat   Rolling    Moun-         Flat   Rolling    Moun-          Flat   Rolling    Moun-          Flat   Rolling    Moun-
Terrain                             Flat   Rolling   tainous                            tainous                         tainous                          tainous                          tainous
Average daily traffic (ADT)
in passenger car units                     20,000                       6,000-20,000                    1,500-8,000                        <2,000                           <1,000
Design speed (km/h)                  120      100          80         100       80         60          80       60         40           60       40         30           60       40         30
Minimum right-of-way (m)              60        60         60          40       40         40          30       30         30           30       30         30           20       20         20
Pavement width (m)                     Minimum 4 x 3.75                 2 x 3.50 or 4 x 3.50                2 x 3.50                        2 x 3.00                          3.50-6.00/c
Minimum median width (m)                        10                             1.5/b
Shoulder width (m)                  3.50    3.00        3.00         3.00    2.50        2.50        3.00    2.50        2.50        2.50      1.50       1.00                1.50-2.50/c
Favement cross slope                           2%                               2%                              2%                               3%                               4%
Shoulder cross slope                           4%                               4%                              6%                               6%                               6%
Surfacing                            Asphaltic Concrete (AC)                   AC                               /d                               /d                               /d
(hot mtx)
Maximum superelevation                        10%                              10%                             10%                              10%                              10I
Minimum horizontal radius (m)        560       350        210         350      210        115         210      115          50         115       50         30          115       50         30
Maximum grade                         3%        5%         6%          4%       6%         7%          5%       7%         8%           6%       8%        10%           6%       82        12%
/a  Pavement structure is designed in accordance with DGH's "A Guide for Pavement Design (Flexible)," 1974, No. 04/PO/BM, and for a design life of
about ten years, unless another design life would be warranted.  Bridges are designed in accordance with DGH's "Standard Loading Specification for
Highway Bridges," 12/1970.
/b Only for 4-lane highways.
7T According to condition.
/d Surfacing selected can vary from single bituminous surface treatment to asphaltic concrete on the basis of economic considerations.
Generally roads with the above design standards can be varied flexibly to suit special conditions of traffic, land use or terrain.
Source,  Directorate General of Hiehwavs. Stand12-d Document No. 13/1;9 .
April 1981



INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Design Standards for Kabupaten Roads
Road classification
C                              D                            E                              F                             G
Main collector                Collector/feeder                   Feeder                       Access                          Desa
Terrain
Flat/                 Moun-    Flat/                Moun-    Flat/               Noun-    Flat/                Moun-    Flat/                  Moun-
rolling    Hilly       tainous  rolling   Hilly   tainous  rolling   Hilly  tainous  rolling   Hilly   tainous  rolling   Hilly    tainous
Average Daily Traffic (10-year
f orecast)
Number of 4-wheel powered
vehicles /a                       -     > 500           -         -     200-500       -        -      50-200      -         -      10-50         -          -       < 10
Of which number of
heavy vehicles                 -     > 100          -         -       50-100      -         -      10-50       -         -       < 10        -           -
Design speed (km/h)                  80      60/70        40/50    60/80    50/60    35/50    50/60   40/50    30/40    30/50   20/30              15/25            As practicable
Minimum right of way (m)              -        20           -         -        10         -         -       10         -         -       10          -          -       10           -
Pavement width (m)                  6.0       6.0          6.0       4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5     4.5        4.5       4.0      4.0        4.0        3.5      3.5        3.5
Shoulder Width (m)
Minimum                           1.5       1.0          1.0       1.0       1.0       0.75      1.0     0.75      0.75       0.75     0.75       0.75      0.75      0.75       0.75
Desirable                         2.0       1.5          1.5       1.5       1.5       1.0       1.5      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0        1.0        1.0      1.0        0.75
Pavement cross slope (%)              -        3            -         -         3         -         -        4         -         -        4          -          -        5          -
Shoulder cross slope (%)              -        4            --        -         4         -         -        5         -         -        6          -          -        6
Surfacing type                        -    Asphalt                    -     Asphalt       -         -     Gravel       -         -     Gravel        -           Selected naterial
Pavement thickness (cm)               -        20           -         -        15         -         -      10-15       -         -       7-10        -          -
Maximum superelevation (%)            -        10           -         -        10         -         -        -         -         -        -          -          -        _           _
Minimum horizontal radius (m)    210          135          65        160       95         50       95       65        40        50       20         15         30       15          10
Maximum grade (X)                     4        7           10         5         7         10        5        9        12         6       10         15          6        12         18
Bridge Width (m)
For bridge length < 6               -        7            -         -         7         -         -        7         -         -       3.5         -          -       3.5         -
7-35            -        7            -         -         7         -         -       4.5        -         -       3.5         -          -       3.5          -
> 35            -        7            -         -        4.5        -         -       4.5        -         -       3.5         -          -       3.5          -
Bridge design loading               -      50% DGH                  -       50% DGH    -          -     50% DGH    -             Min. 10 t loading              Min. 10 t loading
(over 1,000 vpd, 100% DGH)
/a Number of motorcycles is multiplied by 0.2 to convert to number of 4-wheel vehicles.
Source: ENEX/BIEC International.
July 1981



-52-                                                Table 9
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment Requirements
Quantities
DPUP
DPUK programs in    program
25 kabupatens      in Jambi
Support   support
works/    works/
Construe-  mainte-   mainte-
Item no. /description                                      Capacity            tion /a    nance      nance   Total
A. Imported Equipment
1. Crawler dozer                                        100 hp                18         -          -       18
2. Motor grader                                         100 hp                 50       30          2       82
3. Pneumatic roller                                     8-14 t                 50        -          -       50
4. Vibrating roller (self propelled)                    4 t                    67        -          _        67
5. Front end loader                                     0.75 cu m              52        -          -        52
6. Wheeled excavator                                    0.5 cu m               10        _          1        11
7. Mobile crane                                         10 t                   10        -          -        10
8. Stone crusher/screening plant                        20 t/hr                25        -          _        25
9. Paddle type mixer                                    0.5 cu m               62        _          _        62
10. Asphalt paving machine                               2.0-3.5m wide          10        -          -        10
11. Bitumen heater/sprayer (self propelled)              800-1,000 liters       27        _          2        29
12. Air compressor with accessories                      180 cu ft/min.         25        -          -        25
13. Mechanical rammer                                    5 hp                   55        -          -        55
14. Mobile workshop                                      4-ton truck            10       26          -        36
15. Water pump                                           3-4" diameter          50        -          2        52
16. Farm tractor with backhoe, loader & grading blade 70 hp                      -       52          -        52
17. Vibrating roller (pedestrian)                        2 t                     -       25          5        30
18. Concrete mixer                                       0.5 cu m                -       48          3        51
19. Bitumen heater/sprayer (towed)                       750 liters              -       32          -        32
20. Mobile asphalt plants (towed)                        5 t/hr                  -       17          -        17
21. Front end loader with backhoe                        1 cu m                  -        -          5         5
22. Mobile crane                                         20 t                    -        -          1         1
23. Trailer                                              1 t                    25        -          5        30
24. Trailer                                              12-15 t                25        -          1        26
25. Vibrating roller (pedestrian)                        0.4-0.6 t               -        -          5         5
26. Asphalt mixing plant                                 30 t/hr                 -        -          1         1
27. Vibrating plate tamper                                                       -        -         12        12
28. Vibrating rammers                                                            -        -         12        12
29. Wheeled tractor                                                              -        -          3         3
30. Jack hammer                                                                                      5         5
31. Water pump                                           1-1/2-2" diam.         -         -          6        6
32. Dozer, tracked                                       65 hp                   -        -          2         2
33. Vibrating roller (self propelled)                    6 t                     -        -          3         3
34. Screening plant                                      30 t/hr                 -        -          5         5
B. Purchased Locally
1. Dump truck                                           3-4 t                520        56          5      581
2. Water tank truck                                     4,000 liters           62        -          2       64
3. Fuel tank truck                                      4,000 liters           62        -          -       62
4. Pickups                                              1.5 t                   -       77         10       87
5. Pickups                                              0.75 t                 12        -          -        17
6. Pickups                                              0.5 t                   -       33          -        33
7. Jeeps (4 x 4)                                        149 hp                 15       12          8       35
8. Jeeps (4 x 4) with winch                             149 hp                 10        -          -        10
9. Motorcycle                                           150-250 cc             30       77         16      123
10. Generator                                            5 kVa                  12        -          -        12
11. Hand tools                                           set                     -       25          -        25
12. Generator                                            1.5-3 kVa               -        -          6        6
13. Flat bed truck                                       3.5 t                   -        -          5         5
14. Steel wheel roller                                   8-10 t                  -        5          -         5
15  Stone crusher                                        40-50 t/hr              -        -          2         2
/a 50% of total requirements.
Source:  RRSP Report on Plant and Equipment Requirements, May 25, 1981.
November 1981



-53-
Table 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs and Financing
x foreign
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign   Total   excbeagm
Project element                                               ----- (Rp billion)            ---- (US$ million) ---   co_omet
I. Elements Proposed for Bank Financing
A. Civil Works (including Road Equipment
Depreciation), Three-Year Programs
1. Road works
a. Rural roads (excl. bridges)
(i)  New construction (400 km)                   4.1       2.8        6.9      6.6       4.4      11.0        40
(ii)  Betterment/rehabilitation (2,000 km)  25.6           17.0       42.6    40.9       27.3      68.2        40
(iii)  Major support works (2,500 km)             23.8      12.8       36.6    38.1       20.5      58.6        35
Subtotal a                             53.5      32.6       86.1    85.6       52.2    137.8        (38)
b. National and provincial roads 
(i)  Jambi DPUP major support works              3.7       2.5        6.2      5.9'    4.0         9.9        40
Subtotal 1                             57.2      35.1       92.3    91.5       56.2    147.7        (38)
2. Bridge works (on rural roads)
a. New construction (4,000-5,000 m)                 6.0       3.2        9.2      9.6       5.1      14.7        35
b. Major repairs (1,000 m)                          0.3       0.2        0.5      0.5       0.3       0.8        35
Subtotal 2                              6.3       3.4        9.7    10.1        5.4      15.5       (35)
Total A                                63.5      38.5      102.0   101.6   --61.6    163.2          (38)
A'. Civil Works (excl. Depreciation of
Bank-Financed Road Equipment)
1. Road works                                         56.7      26.3        83.0    90.7      42.2    132.9         (36)
2. Bridge works                                         6.2       2.5        8.7    10.0        3.9      13.9       (32)
Total A                               62.9      28.8       91.7   100.7       46.1    146.8        (31)
A". Civil Works (excl. Depreciation of Road
Equipment Financed under the Project)
1. Road works                                         55.8      22.9        78.7    89.3       36.7    126.0        (35)
2. Bridge works                                         6.1       2.0        8.1      9.8       3.2      13.0       (31)
Total A"                               61.9      24.9       86.8    99.1       39.9    139.0        (29)
B.  Equipment
1. For selected kabupatens (about 25)
a. For road construction (34% of needs)             0.9      16.2       17.1      1.4      25.9      27.3         95
b. For road maintenance (80% of needs)              0.2       5.0        5.2      0.4       7.9       8.3         95
Subtotal 1                              1.1      21.2       22.3      1.8      33.8      35.6       (95)
2. For Jambi DPUP
a. For road maintenance (50% of needs)              0.1       0.3        0.4      0.1       0.5       0.6         95
3. Engineering tools, DPUP workshop, train-
ing, soils and materials testing, and
monitoring equipment                              0.1       1.2        1.3      0.1       2.0       2.1        95
4. DPUK workship equipment                              0.1       2.2        2.3      0.2       3.5       3.7        95
Total B                                 1.4      24.9       26.3      2.2      39.8      42.0       (95)
Note:  A  and A" show the financial cost excluding the depreciation of equipment financed under the project.



-54-
Table 10
Page 2
Z foreign
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign   Total   exchange
Project element                                              ---- (Rp billion) -----   ---- (US$ million) ----   component
C. Consulting Services
1. Technical support services for:
a.  Selected kabupatens (about 25)              0.2       1.1        1.3      0.6       1.7      2.3        75
b.  Jambi DPUP                                  0.1       0.2        0.3      0.1       0.4      0.5        75
c.  Project secretariat                         0.1       0.2        0.3      0.1      0.4       0.5        75
Subtotal 1                          0.4       1.5        1.9      0.8       2.5      3.3       (75)
2. Preparation of further DPUK programs
(about 100)                                   0.1       0.3        0.4     0.1       0.4       0.5        75
3.  Preparation of further DPUP programs
(about 18)                                    0.1       0.3        0.4     0.1       0.4       0.5        75
Total C                              0.6      2.1        2.7      1.0       3.3      4.3       (75)
Total A", B -nd C                  63.9      51.9      115.8   102.3       83.0    185.3       (45)
D. Contingencies
1.  Physical (10%)                                   6.4       5.2      11.6    10.2        8.3      18.5       (45)
2.  Price (36%)                                     33.5      11.7      45.2    53.6       18.8      72.4       (26)
Total D                             39.9     16.9       56.8    63.8       27.1     90.9       (30)
Total I (A", B, C and D)          103.8      68.8      172.6   166.1    110.1    276.2         (40)
II. Elements Not Proposed for Bank Financing
A.  Civil Works on Rural Roads
Three-Year Programs
1.  Routine works (excl. bridges)                    4.8       1.5       6.3      7.6       2.5     10.1        25
2.  Minor bridge repairs                             0.9       0.3       1.2      1.5       0.4       1.9       20
Total A                              5.7      1.8        7.5      9.1       2.9     12.0       (24)
B. Equipment (Purchased Locally)
1. For selected kabupatens (about 25)
a.  For road construction (16% of needs)         1.6      6.5        8.1      2.6      10.4     13.0        80
b.  For road maintenance (20% of needs)         0.3       1.1        1.4      0.4       1.8      2.2        80
Subtotal 1                           1.9      7.6        9.5      3.0     12.2      15.2        80
2.  For Jambi DPUP
a.  For road maintenance (50% of needs)         0.1       0.3        0.4      0.1      0.5       0.6        80
Total B                             2.0       7.9        9.9      3.1     12.7      15.8       (80)
C.  DPUK Workshops
1.  Land acquisition                                 2.5       0.0       2.5      4.0       0.0      4.0         0
2.  Buildings                                        1.3       0.4        1.7     2.2       0.5       2.7       20
Total C                              3.8      0.4        4.2      6.2       0.5      6.7        (7)
Total A, B and C                   11.5      10.1       21.6    18.4      16.1.    34.5        (47)
D. Contingencies
1.  Physical (10%)                                   1.1       1.0       2.1      1.8       1.6       3.4      (47)
2.  Price (26%)                                      4.5       1.8       6.3      7.2       2.8      10.0       (28)
Total D                              5.6      2.8        8.4      9.0       4.4     13.4       (33)
Total II (A, B, C and D)            17.1     12.8       29.9    27.4      20.5      47.9       (43)
Total Project Costs I and II    120.9        81.6      202.5   193.5    130.6    324.1         (40)
Notes: 1. April 1981 price level.
2. Rp costs which relate to US$ costs may not correspond exactly due to rounding of numbers.
3. Road equipment depreciation has been based on straight-line depreciation over an estimated average life of
five years.
4. The costs of civil works in I.A include approximately 14% in taxes and duties.
December 1981



-55-
Table 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Project element                                              Start         Complete
Rural Roads Programs (in 25 selected kabupatens)
Planning of Road Works /a
Preparation of first-year program 1982/83            Apr 01, 1981  Jul 31, 1981
Preparation of three-year rolling program            Jul 01, 1981  Dec 31, 1981
Preparation of engineering documentation for
first-year program                                 Jul 01, 1981  Jan 31, 1982
Execution of Road Works in First-Year Program
1982/83
By Force Account
Preparation of Joint Inter-Ministerial
Instruction                                      Jul 01, 1981  Jan 31, 1982
Establishment of project units                     Oct 01, 1981  Mar 15, 1982
Site preparation and equipment mobilization        Dec 01, 1981  Oct 31, 1982
Construction                                       Nov 01, 1982  Mar 31, 1983
By Contractor
For Contracts > Rp 200 Million
Prequalification of contractors                  Dec 15, 1981  Feb 28, 1981
Tendering                                        Mar 01, 1982  Mar 31, 1982
Receipt and opening of bids, bid
evaluation and award of contracts              Apr 01, 1982  Apr 30, 1982
Construction                                     May 01, 1982  Mar 31, 1983
For Contracts < Rp 200 Million
Prequalification of contractors                  Dec 15, 1981  Feb 28, 1982
Tendering                                        Jul 01, 1982  Aug 31, 1982
Receipt and opening of bids, bid
evaluation and award of contracts              Sep 01, 1982  Oct 31, 1982
Construction                                     Nov 01, 1982  Mar 31, 1983
DPUP Improvement Program for Jambi Province
Preparation of program, unit price cost
estimates, Bank agreement                            Jul 15, 1981  Nov 30, 1981
Construction of support works                          Apr 01, 1982  Mar 31, 1985



-56-
Table 11
Page 2
Implementation
Project element                                              Start         Complete
Road Equipment Procurement (for 25 selected kabu-
patens and Jambi DPUP)
Procurement notice and distribution of tender
documents                                            Sep 30, 1981  Nov 30, 1981
Receipt and opening of bids, bid evaluation,
Bank concurrence and award of contracts              Jan 31, 1982  Apr 30, 1982
Delivery of equipment                                  Jun 01, 1982  Oct 31, 1982
Miscellaneous Equipment Procurement
Preparation of equipment lists                         Aug 01, 1981  Mar 31 1983
Receipt and opening of bids (and/or quotations),
evaluation of bids, award of contracts or
placing of orders, and delivery of equipment         Apr 01, 1982  Mar 31, 1984
DPUK Workshops
Land acquisition                                       Dec 01, 1981  Aug 31, 1982
Workshop buildings                                     Dec 15, 1981  Oct 31, 1982
Preparation of workshop equipment lists and
tender documents                                     Jan 01, 1982  Mar 31, 1982
Procurement notice and distribution of
tender documents                                     Mar 01, 1982  Apr 30, 1982
Receipt and opening of bids. bid evaluation,
Bank concurrence, and award of contracts             May 01, 1982  Sep 30, 1982
Delivery of workshop equipment                         Oct 01, 1982  Jan 31, 1983
Consulting Services (initial date: consultants
appointed. Final date: work completed) /b
Technical support services for the selected
kabupatens                                           Jul 01, 1982  Jln 30, 1984
Technical support services for Jambi DPUP              Jul 01, 1982  Jun 30, 1984
Technical support services for the Project
Secretariat                                          Apr 01, 1982  Apr 30, 1985
Preparation of further DPUK programs (about 100)    Apr 01, 1982  Jul 31, 1983
Preparation of further DPUP programs (about 18)        Apr 01, 1982  Jul 31, 1983
/a All steps for planning of the rural roads programs will be repeated on an
annual cycle.
/b Appointment of consultants is preceded by a standard series of steps as
follows:                                                                     Days
Receive proposals                                                           42
Evaluate proposals and report                                               21
Approval of DGH procurement committee and IBRD concurrence                  30
Invite consultant for negotiations                                          10
Complete contract negotiations and prepared initialed draft contract   14
Approval of Government agencies and IBRD concurrence                        28
Arrangements for and signing contract                                        7
Issuance of notice to proceed                                                4
Consultants mobilization                                                    42
Total                                                                198



-57-
Table 12
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                                        Cumulative disbursements at
and quarter                                           end of quarter (US$ million)
1981/82
June 30, 1982                                                       0.0
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                                  2.2
December 31, 1982                                                   9.6
March 31, 1983                                                     19.5
June 30, 1983                                                      28.3
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                                 36.3
December 31, 1983                                                  46.0
March 31, 1984                                                     55.5
June 30, 1984                                                      63.9
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                                 70.0
December 31, 1984                                                  75.6
March 31, 1985                                                     80.1
June 30, 1985                                                      84.9
1985/86
September 30, 1985                                                 88.4
December 31, 1985                                                  92.3
March 31, 1986                                                     96.0
June 30, 1986                                                     100.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Source: Government/Bank estimate.
September 1981



-58-
Table 13
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Unit Costs for Civil Works /a
Road Works
Change of road state /c
From
Unit   existing road          To new or improved road              Cost
cost             Condi-                               Condi-   per km /b
Type of work    no.  Surface    tion   Class  Surface                   tion    (Rp mln.)
New construc-      1   None         None      -    Earth                Fair       10.5
tion             2   None        None       -    Earth                Fair      18.0
(stabilized)
3   None        None      E    Gravel               Good       71.7
4   None        None       D    Asphalt             Good      108.4
5   Earth       Poor       G    Earth               Good       13.7
(selected
material)
Betterment/        6   Earth        Poor      E    Gravel               Good       18.5
rehabii-         7   Earth       Poor       D    Asphalt              Good      33.4
tation &         8   Earth       Poor       C    Asphalt              Good      44.5
major sup-       9   Earth        Good      E    Gravel               Good       12.7
port works    10   Earth         Good       D    Asphalt              Good      26.2
11   Earth       Good       C    Asphalt             Good       34.9
12   Gravel    Poor         -    Gravel              Good       13.3
13   Gravel    Poor         D    Asphalt             Good       26.3
14   Gravel    Poor         C    Asphalt             Good       35.1
15   Asphalt   Poor         -    Asphalt             Good       25.5
(DIBST)
16   Asphalt   Poor              Asphalt             Good       31.2
(Asbuton)
Structures
Unit                         Unit of                           Ccst
cost                        measure-                        per unit
;ype of work          no.   Types                   ment    Min. dimensions    (Rp  000)
4ew construction      17     Pipe culveri        lin. m        60 cm                  ?3.0
18     Box culvert         lin. m     2.0 m x 1.5 m           558.0
19    Retaining            lin. m     5 m high                254.0
wall
(masonry)
20    Bridge               sq m       span: 5 m               4' 4.0
(composite)                  width: 4 m
4ajor support         21      Bridge deck        sq m        Replace timber           '8.0
works                                                         with timber
22     Bridge deck         sq m       Replace timber          131.7
with concrete
(composite)
/a Costs are based on September 1980 price level.
7  Costs include 10% contingencies ai,d 20% overheads.
7  For detailed description of work iactivities, see source material.
3ource: RRSP - Working Paper No. 4, i*evised Draft, January 1981.
)ecember 1981



-59-
Annex 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Kabupaten Road Planning Procedures
The annex provides an overall summary of the planning procedures
which have been worked out in the course of project preparation and agreed
during negotiations. The procedures are outlined in greater detail in a
planning manual which has been made available to provincial and kabupaten
staff. A similar manual exists for engineering aspects, including
contracting procedures and supervision of wDrks.
In general, the kabupatens are already applying planning
procedures which reflect actual needs relatively well. The proposed
planning procedures build therefore on present practices but introduce an
increasingly systematic approach to planning, including tests for minimum
economic viability, thereby reducing the inherent risk associated with a
nonquantified, although rational, approach for incLuding roads which may be
premature. The objective is thus to introduce as few changes as possible to
present practices. This can be achieved through a relatively simple
screening procedure supplemented by sample evaluations of representative
roads.
Objectives
The planning procedures are intended to provide a simple practical
means for planning and scheduling rural road improvement proposals that can
be easily understood and applied by the kabupaten officials.  It is also
important that these procedures are applied in a consistent manner to all
rural road proposals by the kabupaten officials. The procedures are
basically oriented towards evaluation of individual road proposals but by
stressing the importance of collector roads and through routes, concepts of
network planning will be introduced to kabupaten road planning.
Summary of the Simplified Procedures
There are three parts to the simplified screening procedures:
- kabupaten planning, prescreening, screening and scheduling of
construction program;
- sample evaluations by national or provincial government
authorities;
- monitoring of construction and future benefits by national and
provincial government agencies in association with the kabupaten
officials.



-60-
Annex 1
page 2
It is envisaged that the kabupaten planning and public works
agencies will be required to complete the following five steps:
-  identify rural road proposals;
-  prescreen out proposals that do not meet certain minimum
requirements;
-  screen the remaining proposals into three separate categories;
-  rank the proposals according to simple criteria;
-  schedule construction and prepare annual programs and budget
estimates for the next three years.
Definitions
The planning procedures use the following definitions:
(a)  reliable road:  a reliable road is a road that is open for-at
least 350 days per year and is not closed to vehicular traffic for
more than 5 consecutive days at any one time;
(b)  road jurisdiction:  rural roads in Indonesia are administered by
four different levels of government:
(i) national
(ii) provincial
(iii) kabupaten
(iv) desa
The procedures refer only to rural roads administered by kabupaten local
governments.
(c) access road proposals: when an area is not served by a reliable
road, any road proposal that will provide reliable access and may
stimulate or help to generate development benefits for agricul-
ture, is defined as an access road proposal;
(d)  service road proposals:  when an area is served by a reliable
road, even if it is in poor condition, any proposal to improve the
road is defined as a service road proposal. It is unlikely that
any improvement to the surface of a road in these areas will
significantly alter the type or intensity of agricultural
production (although it may generate higher net incomes because of
reduced transport costs);



-61-
Annex 1
Page 3
(e)  kabupaten collector and arterial roads:  in all kabupatens there
are rural collector roads that are under the jurisdiction of the
kabupaten and form the basis of the kabupaten rural road network.
Usually these kabupaten collector roads provide either a link
between a number of local roads and a market center or a link
between two market centers.
The term 'collector roads  is a functional classification and
collector roads may be administered by any one of the four levels
of government.
Similarly, arterial roads provide the main connecting road links
between major market centers and administrative urban areas.
Usually arterial routes are under the jurisdiction of the national
or provincial governments but this is nolt always the case;
(f)  local roads:  these are the roads linking the villages and the
market centers either directly or via collector roads. Local
roads servicing large desas or large areas of agricultural land
usually come under the jurisdiction of the kabupaten authorities.
Desa authorities also administer a number of local roads
connecting the smaller villages and farm land.
Training
There will be a training program for staff in every kabupaten
selected to use the simplified procedures. The training will cover the
procedures involved, the report formats required and on-the-job training
using samples from the kabupaten concerned.
Data Requirements
The kabupaten officials will be provided with examples of the
data required (most of which is available at a kabupaten level) or shown
where they can be obtained. For example, provincial land use maps are
obtainable from the provincial offices of the Department of Land Use
(Agraria). The following list presents the minimua data required by rural
road planners when using the simplified procedures.
(a)  A map showing the existing road network in the kabupaten and
neighboring kabupaten.
(b)  A list, inventory or map, indicating the jurisdiction of all
roads within the kabupaten.
(c)  A map indicating any other transport infrastructure in the
kabupaten and neighboring kabupaten. This information includes
rivers, railways, airports, ports and pipelines.



-62-
Annex 1
Page 4
(d) A map indicating by name the location of all cities, towns and
villages in the kabupaten and neighboring kabupaten.
(e) Land use and/or soil maps of the kabupaten and neighboring
kabupaten showing the areas of major agricultural crops and areas
considered to be infertile.
(f) A topographical map indicating the terrain of the kabupaten and
neighboring kabupaten.
(g) A road inventory defining the reliability, the type and condition
of all roads and bridges within the jurisdiction of the national,
provincial and kabupaten governments.
(h) The population of every city, town and village in the kabupaten.
(i) The names and market days of all major and minor market centers in
the kabupaten and for major markets in neighboring kabupaten.
(j) Details of location, scope, land area, population and infrastruc-
ture required for any major development project proposed, planned
or being constructed in or near the kabupaten.
(k) Existing kabupaten planning map.
Identification of Rural Road Proposals
Development Access Road Proposals
The road planner will start with a copy of a map indicating the
existing road networks in the kabupaten and neighboring kabupaten and should:
- identify the reliable roads on the map; identify and exclude those
areas where terrain or soil type are considered unsuitable for
agricultural development at the present time;
- identify those areas of the kabupaten that have soils and terrain
that are suitable for development but are more than 3 km from a
reliable road;
- select potential alignments for new access roads to serve these
areas and make provisional proposals. These proposed alignments
may include existing unreliable kabupaten roads, existing desa
roads, etc. or new road alignments.
Collector and Arterial Routes
The road planner using a second copy of the map of the existing road
networks will then proceed as follows:



-63-
Annex 1
page 5
- indicate the location of all major and minor market centers;
- indicate diagrammatically the major directional flows of goods and
passengers on all transport modes available;
- consider the regional and geographic orientation of the
kabupatens, the market centers, the population centers and the
production areas;
- determine if the major traffic flow routes are efficient and
logical or if there are any obvious improvements that could be
made by adding to the road network. If there are, the road
planner should propose these additional roads;
- examine the potential routes between minor and major market
centers. Select the preferred routes on the basis of transport
efficiency (least distance or least transport cost).
These routes should then be designated kabupaten collector roads (the road
planner may propose new roads as preferred collector routes, if existing
roads are unsuitable or inadequate.)
Service Roads
The remaining network roads are the existing rural roads in the
kabupaten. These roads may be in varying conditions ranging from very poor
to very good depending on previous maintenance and construction.
When making road improvement proposals, the road planners should
be advised by field information and by the road inventories which indicate
the existing state and condition of these roads. Roads in good or fair
condition may not require improvement proposals. The planners should also
consider the population, the land area served by each road, and the existing
known traffic using these roads and local experience when making proposals.
Simple guidelines have been prepared to assist planners and engineers decide
what widths and standards are justified for local rural roads.
Other Rural Road Proposals
The kabupaten authorities may also receive proposals to improve
kabupaten rural roads from other sources, for example:
- national or provincial agencies
- desa authorities
- local politicians
- private industry
- private agencies



-64-
Armex 1
Page 6
Making Proposals
It is the responsibility of the kabupaten BAPPEDA II planning
staff together with DPUK to make the road improvement proposals. Usually
the planning staff will first identify the need for selection of the
proposals and DPUK will determine the road design and estimate the proposed
construction costs. However, it is important to note that DPUK will also be
able to make road improvement proposals on the basis of engineering or
maintenance requirements.
Prescreening
Prescreening Criteria
In order to simplify the screening and ranking procedures, the
following criteria should be used for prescreening rural road improvement
proposals:
(a)  Alternative Transport Facility.  If an existing road or an
alternative transport mode is providing essentially the saLme
service as a proposed new road will provide within a 3 km
distance, then the proposed road would not be screened until the
existing collector road network is in a good and maintainable
condition.
(b)  Roads Less than 2 km.  Very short links would not be screened
unless they are part of a longer route or serve a major population
center.
(c)  Urban and Semi-Urban Roads.  The screening procedures are designed
for rural roads and may not be appropriate for urban roads. The
urban road proposals would be considered under a separate program
and evaluation procedure.
(d)  Access Roads to Uncommitted New Development Areas.  New access
roads to open up major but uncommitted development areas would be
analyzed only in conjunction with a coordinated development
program. When the scale of development planning and evaluation is
within the scope of the kabupaten officials, the development
planning may be carried out by the kabupaten officials with help
from the agencies concerned. However, if there is an area with
major development potential, the kabupaten officials should
forward details to BAPPEDA I (provincial level planning
office) and to the appropriate provincial and central government
agencies concerned, for project appraisal and project planning to
be carried out at a central level.
Access roads may be a precursor to development but unless all the
major constraints to development are removed, the rate of
development will be slow and the economic benefits will be small.



-65-
Annex 1
Page 7
(e) Roads Requiring Routine MIaintenance. Roads that require only
routine maintenance, for example, repairing potholes, cleaning
drains, etc. do not have to be screened but instead would be
included directly in the routine maintenance program.
(f)  Roads Not Connected to the Rural Road Networks.  A kabupaten rural
road would be rejected unless it had al least one logical endpoint
connecting to either a major population center or to the kabupaten,
national or provincial road networks.
Screening
Screening involves sorting the road proposals into three separate
categories. Part of the screening process is started during the proposal
identification phase when the three types of proposals are considered.
Existing Collector Roads and Through Routes
Collector roads and through routes that: connect the major markets
and other population centers form the basis of the kabupaten rural road
network. These roads are very important and if the rural network is to work
efficiently these roads must either be in a good condition that can be
maintained, or they must be restored to such a condition. When a rural road
is improved, two major changes will occur:
- road user costs will decrease;
- different vehicle categories will be used over the road.
When local roads in poor or very poor condition are improved, the
major benefits will come from changes in the vehicle fleet to faster and more
efficient vehicles. If the collector roads are not in good condition, there
will not be any significant change in the vehicle fleet mix on local roads.
This will restrict potential benefits that would otherwise accrue due to
improvements to the local roads.
To screen the collector road proposals, the road planner should
distinguish between existing collector roads and through routes that require
rehabilitation, and completely new roads. The new roads should be separated
out and evaluated and ranked along with the development access roads.
Development Access Road Proposals
The road planner will screen into this group all the proposals to
provide additional reliable access roads. This group includes the following
types of proposals:



-66-
Annex 1
Page 8
- new road alignments;
- rehabilitating existing but unreliable kabupaten roads;
- rehabilitating or restoring existing but unreliable roads adminis-
tered by desa authorities or other organizations and including
these roads in the kabupaten network.
The development access roads usually will have economic benefits that are
related mainly to increased production.
Service Road Proposals
The service road proposals should include all remaining proposals
to resurface, or to upgrade, any existing reliable roads, including:
- existing reliable kabupaten roads; or
- existing reliable roads administered by desa authorities or other
organizations.
Usually the major benefit that will accrue to a service road proposal will
be the reduction in road user costs for the vehicles using the roads. The
service road improvement proposals are typically of two types:
- restoring the existing road to its former design state along with
drainage improvements to reduce future maintenance costs.
- upgrading an existing road by either widening the road or changing
the surface type to accommodate the expected volume of traffic,
along with drainage improvements.
The former proposals are often in effect delayed maintenance support works
and may show very high economic returns if large population centers are
serviced by the roads.
Ranking
Different ranking procedures are suggested for the three different
types of proposals.
Ranking the Existing Collector and Arterial Routes
These routes will be ranked by the kabupaten planning and
engineering staff on the basis of the existing road conditions and the
importance of these roads to transport in the kabupaten. Typically,, the
collector and arterial routes are, and should be, the best maintained roads
in the kabupatens and any proposals for required maintenance or improvements



-67-
Annex 1
Page 9
will not be subjected to simplified screening procedures but will be
evaluated on a sample basis in greater detail than the lower level, less
costly roads.
Ranking the Remaining Proposals
(a)  Zones of Influence.  The kabupaten planning staff are required to
identify the zones of influence (ZOI) for all the remaining road
proposals before they can be ranked.  ZOI can be identified by
plotting (on 1:50,000 maps) 3 km "contour" lines around each road,
unless there are other road zones of influence or geographic
obstacles within the 3 km. The 3 km ZOI may be extended in certain
instances to take account of local conditions, local land use, or
if an existing feeder road to a population center obviously
increases the zone of influence of a kabupaten rural road.
The determination of the appropriate ZOI of proposed new
alignments for collector roads will require careful consideration
as the ZOI will overlap the ZOI of local roads and the zone of
influence of a collector road may exteneL well beyond 3 km.
(b) Construction Cost Estimates. The construction costs will be
estimated for each road proposal. The kabupaten engineering staff
must design and estimate the cost of each road proposal. Simple
guidelines for road standards and costing are given separately.
Ranking Development Access Roads
The kabupaten staff have to identify the expected population and
the expected cultivated land area in the ZOI five years after the proposed
access road is constructed.
Each development access road proposal should be accompanied by a
planned development program which details the expected population and the
arable land in the ZOI for future years. The benefits that will accrue to
a road improvement and other complementary investments will vary consider-
ably depending on the rates of increase for population and arable land,
thus it is considered that the expected mid-point values will be more
reliable indicators of economic benefits than either the initial levels or
the projected levels after 10 years.
The development plan must outline the existing population of
each town and desa and indicate probable rates of increase if the road is
constructed. If new towns or villages are required, the plan must specify
the construction timetable, infrastructure required and probable population
each year for each new or proposed urban area or village.
TW,D criteria are to be used to rank the development access road
proposals:



-68-
Annex 1
Page 10
- the cost of construction per head of population after 5 years;
- the cost of construction per hectare of cultivated arable land
after 5 years.
The road proposals are to be ranked from the lowest to the highest
construction cost per head and per hectare.  These two rankings will be used
to indicate a preliminary order of priority for construction.
The kabupaten planning staff should first select proposals which
have the lowest, or are near to the lowest, cost of construction per head or
per hectare.  Proposals should not be selectd which have construction costs
which exceed agreed maximum levels for both criteria.
Agricultural development benefits may be more important than popu-
lation-related benefits for development access roads and special attention
should be given to assessing the potential arable land, the additional
inputs required and the planned rates of development.
Ranking Service Road Proposals
The cost of construction per head of population and the cost of
construction per hectare of existing arable land are also to be used to
rank service road proposals.
(a)  Population in ZOI.  To identify the population living in the ZOI
of service roads, it will be necessary to first determine the name
of every desa and town in, or partly within, the boundary of the
ZOI.  The populations of all desas and towns should be available
from a number of alternative sources:
-  the November 1980 Census,
-  the 1976 inter censal review,
-  desa records,
-  kabupaten records,
-  1978 provincial records.
The population estimates prior to 1980 should be increased using
average growth rates to approximate the November 1980 population.
Where only part of a town or desa is within the ZOI, the
proportion within has to be assessed, and used as a weighting
factor to proportion the population accordingly.
The major benefits for service roads and collector roads will
usually come from population-related benefits.
(b) Areas of Cultivated Arable Land. The area of arable land in the ZOI
of a service road can be estimated from the appropriate land-use
or topographical maps and from field experience of the region.



-69-
Annex 1
Page 11
First, the total area of the ZOI should be calculated by
approximating the area of the ZOI by arithmetical means. Simple
arithmetic can be used to calculate the area in sq cm which can
then be scaled up to hectares (100 ha = 1 sq km) using the scale
of the map. The percentage areas of towns, villages, waste and
infertile areas can be estimated visually and the residual
assigned as the existing cultivated arable land and the
undeveloped arable land. Two similar criteria are to be used to
rank service roads:
- the cost of construction per head of population;
- the cost of construction per hectare of cultivated land.
The service road proposal rankings will also be used to assign
preliminary priority for project se:Lection. Projects which have the
lowest, or near the lowest, construction costs per head or per ha
should be first selected for construction. Those projects whose
costs exceed the maximum values designated by BAPPEDA II or the
Central Government Committee should not be selected unless there are
special needs for the road. Where a service road proposal exceeds
the maximum values written, details must be provided supporting the
proposal. A sample evaluation showing the calculations required for
ranking road projects is attached.
Economic Evaluation of Sample Roads
Initially the economic evaluation for a sample of roads selected
from the first year's kabupaten programs will be carried out under the
supervision of a Central Committee composed of MHA, MPW, MOF, and BAPPENAS.
It is envisaged that this role will be transferred to the provincial
authorities when staff capabilities are improved.
It has been agreed that the sample would represent about 10% of all
road proposals which can be classified as access or service roads, while a
larger 20% sample would tbe taken for the more important kabupaten collector
type roads which normally connect kabupaten or kecamatan centers.
However, in preparation of this project, not only were screening
criteria applied and sample evaluations undert'aken for the 25 kabupatens
included, but economic rates of return were calculated for all of the road
proposals in some of the kabupatens in order ito test appropriateness of the
proposed screening criteria. On this basis it was established that the
average economic rate of return (ERR) for a typical year-s program would
exceed 20%, while for none of the roads included in the program would it be
below 12%.



-70-
Annex 1
Page 12
It was also found that an access/service road was as a rule
economically justified, i.e. ERR was at least 12%, when the road construc-
tion cost did not exceed Rp 125,000 (US$200) per ha of cultivated land, or
alternatively, Rp 30,000 (US$50) per capita. For purely agricultural land,
with no population being served simultaneously, this would imply 0.8 km of
road per 100 ha of cultivated area with construction costs of Rp 15.6
million (US$25,000) per km, or a grid of 5 km apart. With construction
costs of Rp 9.4 million (US$15,000) per km, the grid size would be reduced
to about 3 km. Normally, however, the roads serve both population and
agricultural areas and the justification is based on a combination of the
two parameters. In very densely populated areas of Java the cost per capita
may not be more than Rp 6,250 (US$10), while at the same time the cost per ha
can be as high as Rp 250,000 (US$400) and the road still be highly justified.
In the less densely populated areas outside Java, the cultivable area
becomes relatively more important than population. The relationship between
these parameter values and ERR become less obvious and more difficult to
establish for (collector) roads with substantial volumes of through traffic,
but are still indicative.
Monitoring
The sample roads will be monitored during and after construction.
This is required to observe whether or not construction standard costs and
timetables are met and whether the forecast economic benefits and changes
which are predicted, do occur.
The objective of the monitoring is to increase the understanding
of the effects and consequences of improving rural roads and to evaluate
the estimated economic benefits through regular reporting to the project
implementing agency.
Monitoring will cover the following areas:
-  progress and control of construction costs;
-  traffic after construction;
-  changes in tarif-s for passenger and freight transpbrt;
-  effect of the road improvement on agriculture production,
inputs and cropp!ng rotations.
The format and details of the monitoring and reporting system were discussed
separately during negotiations and the initial formats were agreed. These
will be reviewed during project supervision missions.



-71-
Annex 1
Page 13
Construction Schedules
The programming of road works is primarily based on the screening
and ranking priorities. However, it is recognizedi that these priorities may
need to be adapted and modified for planning and construction considerations.
In some instances two stage construction may be considered
desirable. Where a road proposal calls for two stages of construction
within a 5-year period, then the costs of both stages should be added
together for ranking purposes. Conversely, if a road is to be included in
the kabupaten construction program as a single stage construction, it cannot
be included again until the 6th year after construction.
Small bridges and culverts should be included as part of the road
project if the bridge is less than 30 m. However, for longer bridges, or
other major structures whose benefits clearly extend beyond the ZOI of the
road link under consideration, a more detailed evaluation will be needed.
These detailed studies should be carried out by the provincial or central
government authorities. Similarly, the construction and supervision of
these major structures should generally be undertaken by the provincial or
central government.



-72-                             Annex 1
Attachment
Page 14
LEVEL OF SERVICE MANUAL
SAMPLE EVALUATION
Kabupaten Cirebon
Link Number        : 36
Location           : Pamugaran Wetas to Klangenan
Length              : 10 km
Existing Condition: gravel road 4 m - poor condition
Proposed Condition: penetration macadam 4.5 m
Description          This road is through a densely populated area.  It would
also become an important through route if it is sealed.
1.   Population in the zone of influence in 1976:
%        Desa
(1)  Prigkulon                20        1,628
(2)  Gujeg                    20          380
(3)  Kreyo                   100        3,000
(4)  Slangit                  30          756
(5)  Bangodua                100        2,649
(6)  Jemaras                 100        5,754
(7)  Pekantingan              50        1,279
(8)  Danuwimangan             50        4,019
(9)  Pamugaran' Wetas         50        1,656
(10)  Klangenan                50        1,650
22,821
Growth rate 1.75% p.a.
Population estimated 1980 = 24,461
1.1  Population Benefit
Poor gravel to good asphalt for 24,461 people extrapolate from
Table 3.20 Level of Service Manual from population 15,500 = Rp 109.48
million/km.
NPV benefit for population for improved service = Rp 109.48 x 10 =
Rp 1,094.8 million.



-73-                           Annex 1
Attachment
Page 15
2.   Agricultural Benefit
2.1 Land Area in ZOI = 2,775
Land Use
2 crop rice            80%    2,220 ha
Cultivated land area           2,220 ha
2.2  Agricultural Benefit for improved service for 2 crop rice
(use Table 4.4)
NVP = Rp 5.14 x 10 x 2,220 = Rp 114.1 million.
3.   Maintenance
Expected traffic volume         500 vpd
NPV maintenance cost per km = -Rp 6.90
10 x -Rp 6.90 x 105 = -Rp 69.0 million
This is included as a negative benefit.
4.   Non-Agricultural.  There are additional benefits of small-scale home
industries that supply markets in Cirebon and Jakarta. The benefits
are not calculated.
5.   Total Benefits:  NPV Benefits         Rp million
Population          1,094.8
Agriculture           114.1
Maintenance           -69.0
Total NPV         1,139.9
6.   Construction cost asphalt = Rp 153.0 million.
BCR = 1,139.9 = 7.4
153.0
7.   Cost per head = Rp 6,255.
Cost per ha cultivated land = Rp 68,919.
Note: The draft Level of Service Manual is located in the Project File.



-74~-
Annex 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evaluation of Typical Project Roads
1.        The Kabupaten road planning process is described in Annex 2,
including sample evaluations to be used in establishment of economic rates
of return to supplement the simplified evaluation procedures applied. This
annex summarizes the evaluation of four typical roads included in the
program. Although these roads do not constitute a part of the sample
evaluations described in Annex 2, they were selected in preparation of this
project to represent typical roads included in the program and the results
were used in designing the overall evaluation procedures and in establish-
ment of the economic justification of the program. In terms of improvement
costs, the four roads combined (about US$1.0 million) represent about 16% of
the total improvement cost of all roads included in the first year program
(US$6.1 million).
5.        The four roads present collector /1 type roads which are typical
for the first year program, although not for the three-year program as a
whole. Penetrator kaccess/service) type roads are only included towards the
end of the program and. sample evaluations for this type of road will thus be
prepared later as part of the annual planning and programming exercise.
This applies fairly uniformly for all of the kabupatens included in the
project: there is a substantial backlog in rehabilitation and upgrading of
the main kabupaten roads on which traffic volumes typically are su7bstantial
and can reach several hundred vehicles per day. Only gradually will it be
possible to incorporate access/service roads in the remote areas of the
kabupatens. For these latter roads, considerably more emphasis will be
given to assessment of changes in personal mobility and economic activities
(primarily within agriculture), supported as a rule, by broader development
and action programs. The collector roads on the other hand serve areas
which are already fairly well developed with the mairn justification for
improvement derived for transport cost savings.
6.        Table 1 gives an overview of the four sample roads.  Roads 1 and 2
are located in densely populated areas of West Java wvhile roads 3 and 4 are
located in North Sumatra province. All are existing roads in various degrees
/1 Access, service and collector roads are defined in Annex 2. In general,
access and service roads carry little or no througoh traffic, while
collector roads frequently represent important connecting links, and thus
do not serve local traffic needs.



-75-
Annex 2
Page 2
of disrepair, roads 1, 2, and 3 are penetration maicadam on a Telford base,
while road 4 is presently a gravel/earth road. Traffic volumes vary from
more than 1,000 motorized vehicles (excluding motorcyles) per day on road 1
to about 70 a day on road 4, but all four roads carry considerable volumes
of motorcycles, bicycles and pedestrians. This is. particularly true for
roads 2 and 4 which appear to serve a population at lower levels of
motorization, perhaps also indicating that these two roads serve primarily
local transport needs, while roads 1 and 3 appear to carry through traffic
this is confirmed in the individual descriptions below. All four roads are
representative of the two largest provinces included in the program. The
ecnomic rates of return from 100% to 35% - are on the high side for the
program as a whole, but typical for the collector type roads predominant in
the first year's program. Complete benefit and ccst streams used in
calculation of the ERR are given only for road 1, while for the otlher three,
only summary data in Table 1 are given. The ERRs for these have been
calculated on the same basis as for road 1.
4.         Road 1
Location                           : Leuwimunding to Rajagaluh, Majalengka
Kabupaten, West Java Province
Length                             : 6.1 km
Existing Road                      : Penetraticn macadam in poor
condition
Existing Width                     :  5 meters
Jurisdiction                       : Kabupaten mad
Proposed Road State                : Good asbuton seal-widened to 6.0 m
Estimated Construction Cost        : Rp 213.5 million
(6.1 km x Rp 35 million per kna)
5.       The road is located in the western part of the kabupaten of
Majalengka and is part of a route that connects the Cirebon-Bandung
provincial arterial with the main collector road between the Kabupaten
center and Cirebon, a large city on the border of West and Central Java
Provinces. This function results in through traffic using the road
although the high traffic volumes - more than 1,000 motorized vehicles per
day - are primarily caused by local traffic needs. Another reason for
goods traffic is the several store quarries in the area with construction
materials being transported to Cirebon.
6.       The road serves a very densely populated and intensively
cultivated area- population densities in the northlern part of the area
exceed 1,000 person/sq km (2,500 p/sq mi) and both endpoints are kecamatan
(subdistrict) centers with populations exceeding 50,000). The kabupaten is
aware that the area is overpopulated and plans exist to move people to the
less densely populated areas in the northwestern part vf the kabupaten.



-76-                              Annex 2
Page 3
These have previously been less suitable for agriculture due to lack of
water, but tubewells are now being installed. People in the road influence
area also have a high request rate for transmigration to the other islands,
again an indication of population pressures. The expected low population
growth combined with limited prospects for expansion in economic activities
has resulted in a fairly low traffic growth rate of 4% p.a. (Table 1).
7.       The road serves an immediate influence area of 1,600 ha of which
80% is intensively cultivated, mostly irrigated rice paddy (75%).
Secondary crops (peanuts, corn, soyabean, sweet potatoes) are grown on
about 50% of the irrigated paddy area and additional areas are under
sugar cane. Farming practices are good and about two thirds of the farmers
are applying new techniques and inputs under the BINAS program, which is
above the 40% average for the kabupaten as a whole. However, though this is
not a significant surplus area due to the very high population densities, it
is able to provide important marketable surpluses to the nearby centers
causing significant movements on the road, with 6 important markets either
at the endpoints or a close distance from the road.
8.         The proposal is to widen the road to 6-meters because of the high
traffic volumes, at a cost of Rp 213.5 million (US$341,600) or Rp 35 million
(US$56,000) per 'Km. Because of the relatively poor condition of the
existing road and large volumes of commercial traffic, benefits in the form
of reduced traffic costs will result in a one-year payback period and an ERR
of about 100% (Table 1). The typical vehicle on the road is a
microbus/light truck, which represents about 85% of the total motorized
traffic excluding motorcycles (875 vehicles out of a total of 1,020 per
day). It has been estimated that for this typical vehicle, vehicle
operating costs would be reduced by about 40% from Rp 165 to about Rp 100
per km (USq/26.2 and USi/15.9 respectively), including salaries for drivers
and helpers. There would, in addition, be some time cost savings to
passenger traffic (excluding noncommercial travellers). No other benefits
have been considered.
9.        The cost and benefit streams in calculation of the ERR are given
in Table 3. The basis of these streams are as follows:
(a) construction costs, Rp 213.5 million, have been estimated on the
basis of reconstructing and widening the existing 6.1 km long and
5 m wide penetration macadam road in poor condition to a good
6.0 m wide asbestos sealed road. Project life has been estimated
at 10 years and will require an asphalt sealing coat in year 6
(included under maintenance costs below).



-77-
Annex 2
Page-4
(b) routine maintenance costs for the reconstructed road have been
estimated at Rp 0.5 million per km (Rp 3.05 million total) per
year throughout the project period, with an asphaltic sealing cost
included as periodic maintenance in year 6 at a cost of Rp 2.5
million per km (Rp 15.25 million total). The maintenance costs
for the reconstructed road represent net costs, as no maintenance
costs have been included for the existing road. This is a conser-
vative assumption but reflects the present situation and the poor
existing road condition;
(c)  the benefit stream consists of road user cost savings derived from
two main components:  (a) vehicle operating cost savings and
(b) user time cost savings.  These have been calculated for the
base year after the road has been improved using results from the
1981 traffic surveys and assuming an annual 4.0% traffic growth
rate for both passenger and goods traffic in projecting future
benefits throughout the 10-year project life;
(d)  vehicle operating costs calculated for the existing and improved
road have been derived from Table 2 and the unit cost savings
obtained are shown in Table 4. Table 5 gives the total vehicle
operating cost savings in the base year, Rp per kn obtained by
multiplying the 1981 traffic volumes (Table 5) with the unit cost
savings.  As shown in Table 5, the vehicle operating costs savings
represent 62.4% of total user cost savings. The ERR has been
calculated at 64.2% based on these vehicle operating cost savings
alone;
(e)  user time cost savings (Table 5) have been calculated for drivers,
helpers and commercial passengers only.  The share of these
passengers as well as the number of occupants per vehicle (Table
6) were detennined on wage and owner-operator surveys. Time
values for passengers were established as the average farm wage
rate (Rp 140 per hour) prevailing in Majalengka. The unit time
values in Table 6 were converted in Table 7 to time value savings
per vehicle knm by introducing estimated average operating speeds
before and after the project road improvement. The obtained time
saving values were used in Table 5, column (4), to calculate the
total user time cost savings. These represent 37.6% of total
project road benefits.  Had only the t,me costs in the form of
wages to drivers and helpers been considered, this would have
reduced the total time cost savings and total user cost savings by
about 50% and 20% respectively (i.e. savings in driver and helper
wages represent one half of total time savings). The impact on
the ERR would not be significant, as the 'ERR would exceed 64% even
in the case where all user time cost savings were excluded.



-78-                                Annex 2
Page 5
10. Road 2
Location                           : Lemah Tamba to Asinan, Cirebon
Kabupaten, West Java Province
Length                             : 11.9 km
Existing Road State:               : 30% fair penetration macadam
70% poor penetration macadam
Jurisdiction                       : Kabupaten road
Proposed Road State                : Good Asbuton road surface plus
bridge repairs
Estimated Construction Cost        : Rp 247.4 million
(11.9 x Rp 21 million per km
including bridges)
11.       This road is located on the coast plain of Wsest Java, north of
Cirebon City. The road is in many respects similar to road 1: it serves
a densely populated and intensively cultivated area with about 80% of the
total 2,000 ha immediately influenced under cultivation, 75-80% of which
is irrigated. The main differences are that population densities are
somewhat lower than for road 1 and agricultural yields are higher: average
yields of paddy have been reported at 3.4 tons per ha and for the most
important cash crop, sugar cane, highest yields have reached 100 tons per
ha. The area is still considered to have reasonable growth potential and
roadside developmient is less intense with lower or insignificant volumes of
through traffic.  Traffic growth rate has been set at 7% per annum, which
is about average for the less populated rural areas in Nest Java outside
the main national and provincial roads and indicates reasonable future
growth prospects. ERR is however considerably lower at 40% (Table 1) than
for road 1, primarily because of lower traffic volumes. In this case too,
the microbus/light truck represents the typical vehicle. The average
vehicle operating costs savings, Rp 60 per km (US,/9.5) are marginalLy lower
than for road 1, indicating a slightly better present road condition. The
difference in ERRs between these two roads could have been considerably
more, but the lower traffic levels did not necessitate Increased costs for
widening of the existing road, while the higher traffic growth rate also
reduces the difference between ERRs. If the 4% traffic growth rate were
used ERR would be about 36%.



-79-
Annex 2
Page 6
12. Road 3
Location                           : Part of the route from Sidikalang
to Parongil, Dairi Kabupaten,
North Sumatra Province
Length                             : 5 km
Existing Road State                : 3.5 meter wide penetration macadam
in fair to poor condition with
poor drainage
Proposed Road State                : 4.5 meter wide road.  Asbuton
construction with drainage
improvements
Estimated Construction Cost        : Rp 94.4 million (5 km x Rp 18.9 mil-
lion per km)
13.       Road 3 is part of a longer, main kabupaten collector road from
the kabupaten capital Sidikalang to Parongil (about: 30 kin), an important
kecanatan center. From Parongil a track continues another 25-30 kin, but
is passable to motorized traffic only for the first 3-4 km.  The Kabupaten
is gradually extending the improved section further to reach the more
remote villages which are now being served by packhorses, bicycles and
animal-drawn vehicles. Project road 3 is part of the section closer to
Sidikalang, a town with about 15,000 people (the project road section ends
only about 5 km outside Sidikalang).
14.       The whole road will thus eventually extend s-me 55-60 km from
Sidikalang, serving a long, mostly fertile valley, but will not become
a through route. The population within the immediate influence area
along the road has been estimated at 5,470 (Table 1) but the population
along the whole road is about 50,000, generating considerable volumes of
through traffic on the project road section.
15.       There are several small towns along the road and the influence
area provides itself with considerable growth opportunities. Kabupaten
Dairi as a whole, hiowever, is not growing very fast and the growth in
regional income has not been estimated to exceed 2% per year. The reasons
for this are the relative remoteness of the Kabupaten from the provincial
capital Medan and some outmigration. Traffic growth on the project road
has therefore been established at no more than 4.5% per year.  This may
prove to be a too conservative forecast, but represents the best estimate at
this time.



-80-
Annex 2
Page 7
16.        The immediate influence area of the project road has been
estimated at 750 ha, of which about 80% is under cultivation. This
is above average for the whole road, with farming gradually tapering off
as the road condition deteriorates towards the end of the section. About
450 ha represent irrigated paddy with yields ranging from 2-1/2 tons of
paddy per ha for local varieties and up to 3-1/2 tons per ha for improved
varieties. The remainder of the cultivated area is under other foodcrops
and cash crops such as coffee and cloves, although not in any significant
quantities.  As in the case of the other three project roads studied,
the proposed improvement is not expected to result in any significant
increases in agricultural production or population, as the influence
areas are already relatively well developed. In this case, however,
additional traffic volumes can be expected - not so much because of the
project road improvement - but as the motorable road is extended further
into the valley. Such improvements have been included in the subsequent
years of the kabupaten road program. Traffic volumes are quite
considerable, exceeding 400 vehicles a day, with microbuses/light trucks
representing 72% of the total and a considerable volume, 20%, of heavier
vehicles as well. The voluine of motorcyles and nonmotorized traffic is
less than on the more densely populated areas of Java. This road is in
slightly better condition than the project roads 1 and 2, with average
vehicle operating costs for microbuses/light trucks being reduced from
Rp 145 (USr.23.8) to Rp 95 (US-15.1) per km.  For heavier buses and trucks,
the savings are cf course considerably more, Rp 85 per km (from a present
level of Rp 225 per km, USi35.7 to Rp 140 per km, US22.4).
17. Road 4
Location                          :  Diski to Simpang Jaflan Jati, Deli
Serdang, Kabupaten, North Sumatra
Province
Length                            :  5.5 km
Existing Width                    :  3.0-4.0 meters
Existing Road State               :  100% fair to poor earth with little
gravel. The kabupaten will upgrade
this road to a good gravel road
during FY81/82.
Proposed Road State               : Widen to 4.5 m.  Stage construction:
Stage 1 - AWCAS
Stage 2 - Asbuton (if feasible)
Jurisdiction                      :  Existing kabupaten road
Estimated Construction Cost       : Rp 90.75 million for AWCAS (5.5 x
Rp 16.5 million per km); Rp 126.5
million for Asbuton (5.5 x 23.0
million per km.)



-81-
Annex 2
page 8
18.       This road feeds into the main Medan to Banda Aceh national road.
The influence area is within the greater 'Iedan urban area and the
population is expected to increase rapidly, particularly after the road
is improved. The present population, about 1,500, represents the poorest
elements of the urban area, livina in the still rural fringes of the city
of Medan. The present road condition is poor and has restricted the more
rapid development experienced by typical close--by areas in the past. The
annual traffic growth rate has therefore been set at 10%1 per annum, but
this could even be exceeded, if the inland portion of the road is improved
in the near future.
19.       The total land area along this road is 2,100 ha, of which 1,500
ha is available as arable land, while the rernainder is used for housing,
fruit-trees and waste land. In about half of the area the soils are sandy
and not suitable for rice cultivation.  This area was formerly owned by a
tobacco plantation and is now lying either fallow or being farmed by
squatters growing cassava and other foodcrops. The fallow land is also
used for grazing cattle and the project road is used daily by herds of
cattle countina several hundred head. Sorne 500 ha is under rice paddy and
the remainder under miscellaneous foodcrops.
20.       A sugar factory is being built along the national highway and a
state-owned sugar plantation should take over some of the lands previously
owned by the tobacco plantation with about 250 ha being under sugar cane
at any given tine.  This would result in a substantial intensification of
agricultural activities along the project road as land presently mainly
lying fallow would be taken over. Otherwise the main part of the traffic
increase would be caused by population increase with agriculture only
expanding for subsistence purposes of this population.  Traffic volumes in
this road are presently low, about 70 motorized vehicles per day, of which
60, or about 85%, are microbuses/light trucks. It is likely that these low
levels are partly caused by the bad condition of the existing road and the
relative poverty level, because the volume of nonmotorized traffic is very
large - the highest for the four roads examined; there is also a large
number of motorcycles.  Lacking more detailed information, the average
traffic cost savings have not been estimated to be more (about 40%) than for
project roads 1 and 2, but it can, at least seasonally, be expected to be
more, as much of the road cannot be classified as more than itaproved earth.
ERR has been estimated, on this conservative basis, to be 27%.
21.       It is not unexpected by ERRs (Table 1) that all of the four roads
would have easily qualified and ranked high had only the cost per capita and
cost per ha been used (para. 4). For roads 1-3, the cost per capita does
not exceed US"27, while road 4 would have easily qualified on basis of the
US$70 cost per ha, with the cost per capita being US$100. For roads 1-3,
the cost per ha is about US$200:



-82-
Annex 2
Road
1    2    3    4
Cost/capita, US$                            18   20   27   96
Cost/ha, US$                               212  196  20    68
These cost-efficiency indicators are of course only approximate and caution
should be used in drawing a direct correlation between these and ERRs. For
instance, variations in the intensity of land use and volume of through
traffic, are exmples of two important factors which can cause discrepancies.
Volume of through traffic is particularly important for road 1, while the
intensity of land use along road 4 is at present substantially less than for
the other three roads.  In spite of these factors, the indicators reflect
remarkably well the corresponding ERRs.



-83-                              Annex 2
Table I
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJEICT
Summary Sheet of Sample Evaluat:ions
Road
. 1          2         3         4
Length,' km                                 6.1       1]1.9       5.0      5.5
Population                               18,700    19,260    5,470    1,500
Cultivation area, ha                      1,600      2,000        750    2,100
Irrigated rice                         (1,2 0)   (1,300)    (450)    (500)
Cash crops                               (240)      (200)      (50)    (250)
Trafic, ADT
Microbuses                                615          80      215        20
Light trucks                              260         60        80        40
Other trucks/buses                         95         50        90         5
Cars/jeeps                                 50          5        25         5
Motorcycles                               570        580       225       540
Animal drawn                               15          75        5       n.a.
Bicycles/becaks                           400        930         10      840
Pedestrian/pikuls                         125        200       165       340
Improvement cost, Rp. 106               213.5      247.4      94.5       90.8
Improvement cost, US$ 103              (340.0)   (3'95.8)  (151.0)   (145.3)
Improvement/km, Rp 106                   35.0       20.6      18.9       16.5
Improvement/km, US$103                  (56.0)     (33.3)   (30.2)    (26.4)
1981 benefits /a RP 106                 214.1       89.7      45.1       23.1
(per km)  US$103                      (35.1)      (7.5)    (9.0)       (4.2)
ERR, %                                    100          40       49          27
Traffic growth rate, %                      4           7      4.5          10
/a Excludes time savings for noncommercial passengers.



INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Vehicle Operating Costs per Km by Road State and Condition
Rp/km
VEHICLE CATEGORY
Road      Road                  Back                      Horse  Motor  Light   Light   Heavy   Medium  Car
State  Condition  Walk  Pikul  Pack    Bicycle  Becak  cart   cycle  bus         truck   bus       truck   jeep
Earth   Very poor 0.0   66.67  71.43    33.70   62.85  103.68 72.52  222.73  242.09  387.19  309.76  199.09
Poor      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.52   56.92  103.68 66.67  181.70  196.80  309.91  247.93  167.78
Fair      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.34   50.99  103.68 60.81  140.67  151.51  232.62  186.62  135.67
Good      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.16   45.06  103.68 54.96   99.64  106.22  155.34  124.27  103.56
Gravel  Very poor 0.0   66.67  71.43    33.70   46.35  103.68 64.98  167.98  187.34  290.47  238.77  172.93
Poor      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.52   45.92  103.68 61.40  140.96  156.06  247.64  198.11  149.77
Fair      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.34   45.49  103.68 57.81  113.94  124.77  196.81  157.44  126.60
Good      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.16   45.06  103.68 54.23   86.92   93.49  145.92  116.78  103.44
Asphalt Very poor 0.0   66.67  71.43    33.70   46.35  103.68 63.54  161.32  180.65  282.17  225.73  168.21
Poor      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.52   45.92  103.68 60.28  136.11  151.19  233.98  187.18  146.33
Fair      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.34   45.49  103.68 57.01  110.89  121.72  185.79  148.63  124.45
Good      0.0   66.67  71.43    33.16   45.06  103.68 53.75   85.68   92.26  237.60  110.08  102.57
Source: Enex/BIEC International, Inc.
0>l



-85-
Annex 2
Table 3
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Case Study Road 1: Leuwimrunding to Rajagaluh,
Majalengka Kabupaten, West Java Province
Cost and Benefit Streams
Year         Construction   Maintenance        Benefits (User            Net
ending           costs           costs          cost savings)          Benefits
0              213.50                                                -123.50
1                              3.05              214.10/a            +211.05
2                              3.05              222.65               219.60
3                              3.05              231.55               228.50
4                              3.05              240.85               237.80
5                              3.05              250.05               247.00
6                             18.30              260.50               242.20
7                              3.05              270.90               267.85
8                              3.05              281.75               278.70
9                              3.05              293.05               290.00
10                              3.05              304.75               301.70
/a Out of which Rp 133.20 million vehicle operating cost savings and
Rp 80.9 million user time savings (driver, helpers and commercial
passengers only)/
Note: ERR about 100% (64.2% only including vehicle operating cost savings).



-86-
Annex 2
Table 4
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs: Unit Cost Savings
Vehicle operating costs               VOC
Vehicle            Poor asphalt       Good asphalt          Saving
category              (Rp/km)            (Rp/km)           (Rp/km)
Pedestrian               0                 0                 0
Pikul /a                66.67             66.67              0
Bicycle /b              33.52             33.16              0.36
Becak                   45.92             45.06              0.86
Horsecart /c           103.68            103.68              0
Motorcycle              60.28             53.75              6.53
Light bus              136.11             85.68             50.43
Light truck            151.19             92.26             58.93
Heavy bus              233.98            137.60             96.38
Medium truck           187.18            110.08             77.10
Car/jeep               146.33            102.57             43.76
/a  Includes back packs.
7T  Includes freight bicycles.
7T  Includes animals only.
Source: Rural Road Study - ENEX.



-87-                                 Annex 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total User Cost Savings in Base Year
Rp per km and Day
Average   VOC /a        VOCs      UTC /b        UTC          Total
Vehicle            daily   savings    savings   savings          savings    user cost
category          traffic  per veh.    total    per veh.          total       savings
(1)      (2)          (3)        (4)
Pedestrian           103      0             0          0            0            0
Pikul                 22      0             0          0            0            0
Bicycle             396       0.36        142.50       0            0          142.50
Becak                  6      0.86          5.15       0            0            5.15
Horsecart             16      0             0          0            0            0
Motorcycle           572       6.53    3,735.15        0            0        3,735.15
Light bus            615     50.43   31,014.45        40.75   25,061.25   56,075.70
Light truck          259     58.93   15,262.85        25.30    6,552.70   21,815.55
Heavy bus              9     96.38        867.40      36.80       781.20    1,648.60
Medium truck          86     77.10    6,630.60       :37.17    3,196.60    9,827.20
Car/jeep              50     43.76    2,188.00        10.00       500.00    2,688.00
Total          2,134       -       59,846.10       -       36,091.75   95,937.85/c
/a  VOC = Vehicle operating cost savings; total savings (3) obtained by
multiplying column (1) with (2).  In order to obtain total VOC
savings for the whole link cover the year, total in column (3)
needs to be multiplied by 365 x 6.1.
/b UTC = User time cost savings. Calculated only for drivers, helpers
and commercial passenger traffic.
/c VOC savings represent 62.4% of this total.



-88-                             Annex 2
Table T
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Occupants per Vehicle & Unit Time Values, Rp per Hour
(Rp/hour)
Time
Travellers                  Time values         Time       cost
Vehicle        Drivers/          Passen-  Drivers/           Passen-  cost    consi-
category      operators Helpers  gers    perators Helpers  gers   per veh.  dered
Pedestrian                        1.0/a                         70        70        0
Pikul            1/a                         150                         150        0
Back pack        1 F                         135                         135        0
Bicycle          17a              0.1/a       70                70        70        0
Becak            1/a              0.5/a      140               140       210        0
Horsecart        17a              1.07a      200               140       340        0
Motorcycle       17-a              1.57a      70                70       175        0
Light bus        1         1      7.0        500      150      140     1,630   1,630
Light truck      1         1      3.3        400      150      140     1,012   1,012
Heavy bus        1         2     12.0        500      150      140     2,480   2,480
Medium truck    1          1      0.8        800      150      140     1,062   1,062
Car/jeep         1                0.4/a      400               140       456      456
/a  Not included in calculation of travel time savings.



-89-
Annex 2
Table 7
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Time Savings Considered per Vehicle-km
Speed            Time         Time cost        Value of
Vehicle          Before   After         saved       per vehicle    time saving
category         ---(kmph)----    (hours/km)         (Rp/hour)         (Rp/km)
Bicycle             7       10         0.043              0              0
Becak               5       10        0.100               0              0
Horsecart           5       15         0.133              0              0
Motorcycle         20       50         0.030              0              0
Light bus          25       65         0.025          1,630             40.75
Light truck        25       65         0.025          1,012             25.30
Heavy bus          20       65         0.035          2,480             86.80
Medium truck       20       65         0.035          1,062             37.17
Car/jeep           25       65         0.025            400             10.00



- 90 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A-1 Transportation Division, East Asia and Pacific Region,
Transportation Sector Review, October 1980
A-2 W. D. Scott and Co., P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, Counterpart Bina
Marga Staff, A National Study of Vehicle Weights and Dimensions in
Indonesia, June 1978, eight volumes (Technical Reports Nos. 1-7
and Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations)
A-3  W. D. Scott and Co., P.G.  Pak-Poy and Associates, and Counterpart
Bina Marga Staff, A Study of Road User Charges in Indonesia, Draft
Final Report, Main Report, June 1978
A-4  W. D. Scott and Co., P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, and Counterpart
Bina Marga Staff, A Study of Highway Ordinances and Enforcement in
Indonesia, Draft Final Report, Main Report, June 1978
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1 Enex of New Zealand and BIEC International Inc., Economic
Evaluations of Four Sample Road Proposals, June 1981
B-2 Same authors, A Simplified Procedure for Screening and Ranking
Rural Road Proposals (Working Paper No. 15), June 1981
B-3 Same authors, Draft Final Report for Phase I, February 1981
B-4 Same authors, Routine Works (Working Paper No. 5), September 1980
B-5 Same authors, Construction Design and Practice (Working Paper
No. 2), September 1980
B-6 Same authors, Implementation (Working Paper No. 8), September 1980
B-7 Same authors, Project Control (Working Paper No. 6), October 1980
B-8 Same authors, Manpower, Training and Organization (Working Paper
No. 7), September 1980



- 91 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
B-9   Same authors, Institutional Aspects and Funding Process
(Working Paper No. 9), July 1980
B-10  Same authors, Cost Estimating (Working Paper No. 4),
September 1980
B-il  Enex of New Zealand and BIEC International Inc., Interim Report,
December 1980
B-12  Same authors, Level of Service (Working Paper No. 13),
September 1980
B-13  Enex of New Zealand, Rural Road Development Study, April 1, 1980
B-14  Bina Marga, Program Inpres Penunjangan Jalan Kabupaten 1981/82,
February 9, 1981
B-15  Kenneth Davey, A Report for the Government of Indonesia,
February 1979
B-16  Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Central & East Java Inception Report,
January 1981
B-17  Parsons Overseas Co. in association withi INDEC & Associates, Ltd.,
The Study Program for Feeder Roads Management I, Final Report
(Vol. I)
B-18  Japan International Cooperation Agency, The Local Roads Support
Works Study in Seven Provinces (No. 49 -- Appendixes & No. 37),
August 1980
B-19  Enex of New Zealand, Manual One, Procedures for Preparing Rural
Road Programme Proposals at Kabupaten Level, First Draft
September 1981
B-20  Same Authors, Manpower and Training, August 1981
B-21  Same Authors, Report on Technical Services for Future Projects
October 1981
B-22  Same Authors, Report on Plant and Equipment Requirements,
October 1981
B-23  Lea Associates and Roy Jorgenson Associates, USA., A Study of
the Road Works Activities of the Provincial Department of Public
Works in Jambi, October 1981



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE CENTRAL AND PROVINCIAL
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
bintlai Gtvelnm,,,,                                                               |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial Governments|
Dirertor|neee n t  vronl   
General~~~~'Pb1
| Dir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ectoro                                               iron  S  iecto  Dirorn  irttr
S g   g C    j H    W S   H <    < H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W 
and Proica  od
DirecDirYctO.tor I 1 , D t  b c        L                                    L     S      teDirt of  Dirco r  SD-w                                                                            Di--
Land P ltr;||ftrepar | att3tttion   Centr      Lncal Roads                      f 1f
SettlementDMTJ)                      (BIPRAN                           PEMBANGUNAN)                             (PALANS                                 |.
SutcDirectorats  Sob-Directorate  Sob-Directorate ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~     ~     S.bDi--t
Sob Di-reotot      Sob-Directorate.  Sb Dirco.                              nIUrban          Sob-Direcr-ra     S. EDDveomet                          Sb-i-coar                              a-Grrert
nIProet          n Sapad           1Stotrt                              Planning and       orto-l Roads          R- r-tn
Prpar-ti-o         Tidal Land                                                                                                                                                           E,Estbn,ao...sia1
World Bask - 22133



INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROAD FUNDING PROCESS
&  1   |  NATION L  |   { FOREIGN AID \      | PROVINCIAL                            DISTRICT
INVESTMENT                   INCOM                                             INCOME                             INCOME
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       _ _.
BUDGET            __                        T-  x-- -r   
PROVINCIAL -                INPRES -p4INPRES -|-I
INPRES                   .JALAN   IKABUPATENI
~~~I I            I_                           _
BINA MARGA BUDGET    j                        PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT              DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT
BUDGET                           BUDGET
A:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
TR AN SM IGRATION
TOLL ROADS                ARTERIAL ROADS                                   COLCORRASDISTRICT ROADS
- - ~- -CENTRAL GOVERNMENT SUBSIDY
THE MAIN SOURCE OF FUNDS
THE AID SOURCE OF FUNDS
[~1    ORIGINATE FROM PROJECT AID
SOURCE: Directorate General of Highvvays
ebruary 1981
World Bank-22891



INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRUCTURAL ORGANIZATION CHART OF DPUK KABUPATEN OF CIREBON
CHIEF OF DPI,lKl
|AFFAIRS||AFAR||AFAR||AFIS|
LANNINGSECTIO     NERASECTNION                 SECTIONSIS ECIO                                     RB       NN
| URESEARCH            ROADS & BRIDGES    i       INVESTIGATION                S ECTION                 SUB SECTIN
_SUB SECTION         _       SUB SECTION               SUB SECTION_SUSETO_SBSCIN
COLLECTING DATA              BUILDING              BUILDING PERMIT                  STORE                  LANDSCAPING
_  SUB SECTION           SUB SECTION               SUB SECTION
DOCUMENTATION              IRRIGATICN                STATISTICS                   WORKSHOP                  CLEANING
_  SUB SECTION        _      SUB SECTION       _      SUB SECTION_                 SUSETO_                   SBSCIN
CIDEDUG                 SINDANG LAUT               CIREBON                     PALIMANAN               APJAWINANGUN
S SUB DISTRICT                                     SUB DISTRICT                 SUB DISTRICT              SUB DISTRICT
CLERICAL                  LERICAL                  CLERICAL     1              CLERICAL                  CLERICAL
MAINTENANCE              MAINTENANCE              MAINTENANCE                  MAINTENANCE               MAINTENANCE
SUB SECTION              SUB SECTION              SUB SECTION                  SUB SECTION               SUB SECTION
CONSTRUCTION PERMIT      CONSTRUCTION PERMIT      CONSTRUCTION LICENSE         CONSTRUCTION PERMIT       CONSTRUCTION PERMIT
SUB SECTION              SUB SECTION              SUB SECTION                  SUB SECTION               SUB SECTION
SUPERVISION & INFOR-     SUPERVISION & INFOR-     SUPERVISION & INFOR-         SUPERVISION & INFOR-      SUPERVISION & INFOR-
MATION SUE SECTION       MATION SUB SECTION       MATION SUB SECTION           MATION SUB SECTION        MATION SUB SECTION
SOURCE: DPUK Kabupaten Cirerbon August 1980.
World Bank-22892



INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRUCTURAL ORGANIZATION CHART OF DPUK KABUPATEN OF DAIRI
CHIEF OF DPUK
OFFICE-CHIEF
LOGISTIC       FINANCIAL       PERSONNEL      MANAGEMENT
AFFAIRS         AFFAIRS         AFFAIRS         AFFAIRS
CITY                        ROADS&                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EQUIPMENT,
|  PLANNING  l    PLANNING      BUILDING          RIDS           IRRIGATION     MAINTENANCE,
SECTION         SECTION SECTION   SECTION                         SE CTION      & WORKSHOP
SECTION
|  SECTrOR 
COORDINATOR
FOR EMAN
SOURCE: Kabupaten Dairi
August 1980.                                                                                       World Bank-22893



-96-
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ROAD WORKS
KABUPATEN                                          PROVINCE                              CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
-    r              B~~~~UPATI 
s t                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TKTD + SDIRR
<j                               11  DPUKBAPPEDAiIOP
Er               ~~~~~Program Preparation                                                                     dsrdt
O                       P Idant                                                                                     Provide E asistan n pnd support
3   1            1                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~collector road development
network of rural          traffic  oad 0u it
a:          roads.                     bridg if _  
Z           Acces.                     brldge inventory                                                       . Undertake and issue Rurel Road Inventory
BA PP E 01 
v         a Determine desired         Complete praliminary
C           Level of SNerl         .Cmltpriinv
2           on Individual             eni1neering and cost
<i    notmork links             estimates,i
0
us3APPEDAII               DPUK
Ct                                     C Aseess feasibilit _    * Consider engineer -
Ki          and economic              in priority of
priority ranking          uoia 
of works 
0
DPUK -WITH ASSISTANCE BAPPEDA I I
uu          * Formulate preliminary works Program.
, Dtetrmine implementation strategy, manpower
ai neds, plnt/sequipment needs.
GCVERNOR
3APPEDAl 11        _          BUPATI 7_ 
*Consolidate into                                            i                 
proliminarn                                                                                                          I
work Progrem                                                           L 
E APPEDA I WI rH ASSISTANCE DPUP
ii  h_  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   . Audit applicati, n of screening                            TKTD + SDRR
L  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  _  +   * Ensure Kabupaidn Pro6rprocdure* Provide support to BAPPEDA and
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ensure Kabupaisn programs areDU  o  rgamc-riain
co-ordinated,                                    U  fr
MHA-WITH ASSISTANCE FROM
GOVERNOR        |           b ]      TKTDO SORR AND BAPPENAS
Issue joint decree giving Program
O bectives end level of funding.
z                                                                         GOVERNOR
SUPATI             .           Assign Bupati leader of _
< 1    |    BE  PPEDA 11                                                 I<abupartn Program. 
a Re Liew program                                                                                                     I
aga nst budget    |
tJ[ i co, straints               OPUK
|                                       Prepare finaI
ro                     -  - _ -_  _ _   engineering and                                                                          I
z                L  _                   documentation.   |
E I    ,
z
az |              APPEDA 11 AND DPUK
_      *Prepare DURP and Project Proposals.      | 
BAPPEDA I WITh ASSISTANCE DPUP                          TKTD + SDRR
* Review DURP 05.d Project Proposals            * Provides support to BAPPEDA and
| . Compiles Provinc,al Summary                    OPUP for tachnical review.
CHART SHOWIN   P ULL SCREENING                                                                                                   -
AND PL. N'IlNC PROCEDURES.                                                                                                    -M
FROM CENTRA,   10'I PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTNO
TO DISTRICT/K  BUPA-EN CFFICES                                             GiVE URP approVas l                        A         P
SOURCE, ENEX SIEC Interntional Inc.
February 1951
A       MOF
| . Authonzes release of fundsk
World Eank-22E95



-97-.
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS OF GOVERNMENT
President
Bappenas-National                        
Development   l                 Ministry of                      Ministry of
Planning Board                  Home Affairs                     PbiWoks
Governor!/ h
Bappeda-Regional               Local                                   Local
Planning Board             Secretariat                            Inspectorate
Provincial Public
Bupati        _                         Works Service
JDPUP
BAPPEDA II                 Local                                      Camat
Planning Board            Secretariat
Kabupaten Public
Lurah                                   Works Service
(D PLK)
Secretariat/            Social           r    Security               Economic               egous
Administration           Welfare                & Safety            Development              Affi,irs
Affairs               Affairs        L       Affairs                Affairs
i As Kepala Dearah (Chief of the Region) the Governor is directly responsible to the President
SOURCE: ENEX - BIEC International Inc.
February 1981
World Ba'ik-22896



-98-
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FLOW CHART OF ORGANIZATION
FOR RURAL ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PRESIDENT
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -L0R
MINISTRY                                         MINISTRY
l OF HOME AFFAIR             OF PUBLICWORKS             OF FINANCE
i   L _ _7 -------l ---
*                      DGH
*           ~~~~PROVINCIAL OFFICIE
r                                                .~~~~
NOTES:                                                          PROJECT UNIT
_-  STRUCTURAL LINE
--_-  PORJECTLINE
--_  COORDINATIVE LINE
.... . TO BE ESTABLISHED BY JOINT DECREE
Source: Steering Co imittee for Rural Roads Development Project
July 1981
We rid Bank - 23108



i6oc 1CU                      1 )   _   TI IILAND                             PHILIPPINES
-0  -       '                                                        Io                    '       M> - ALAYSIA    B       F9
\  >   \ u   4;      fKALIMANTAN",
RTekiogecrr                                                                                                    -7'-; 'p                          'Ntv  e   1 r< AJY 
A                                                              A ffA If A                      fLORES 
I r   ,,   Ohr          ALI           I  TIMOR
N,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~M
\E            ~~\ LA  AT+Ar,  C       roSMf vora'oa      q
'\       \;      g ~ELojain        'N                 '>'   \                                                                                       lOONo
TaWIC'ttA                           5EOIIDNG     f _'                                 )
000 E0Mt\~\  'J<j                  Pentataa<' KR  Kal,Lf PL  >  Nan  0  \   ~'         (1 KUALA LUMPUR
Sian or      4K~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Chn 
D         i          DA SAI/                                <  'L M                    LYS    A                      Sea
III             \ UT        a9e    )   LABAA
'     Tntntng 'NH5Ela          ;"N4                            X      -
TAPA0/LT TEN'              A       r
Nnunggsr;k                   Po          P '     )                      O "          Be~q  i NNE
tIkkAPIS EAA    1                    -       '                                               A                r, Ak
D<'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'                  j 'oarorl  I) Aoil                      j                                                                       Inr Precg
'N,    PEKAN71`1U
aTiama        v    Bjnxs                                                                tful
PAS  PAMAN       ,        XSAWIIL,O, "  '          '>       .'M A_, B
0   c  i a  n  \                         RnngLt 1            'N
7                   PADANO         olok \ \fSAY/    i            -
K(<   0\J,tENGf ULtL    \   /          <,        _       P4AEMBANG
I NDONE S IA                       93                     uEsKUlvX99  u                               rbmli>ugung
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                                ,"  Mnaraenito
SU,MATRA                                  f,ENKLa 9Ys
I I   |PROJECT PROVINCES
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                                LBT Nt'
PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
-   ..   RAILWAYS                          I Second Project CR 260 IND
PREVIOUS PROJECT OONSTRUCTION   FInh Prbject LN 1236 IND                                                           \       tb-i
RIVERS                              FPfth Project LN 1696 IND Om
50                         -~   KA6BUPATEN(DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES                                                                               Z A    P U NG
-    -    PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                               Km
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                            KIT.-.
KILOMETERS
0               100               200               300                 Th. .op hI. b..ehe.p-rd by the World B-ok  -ftoh e fckIorNay ffY the cb ,ence
I  0f the nnderJ of te fePo,t to whIch t/ atteched The deno--a- msd -nd  .he
t  ,I   ooodan,eashowmn . rmvs m p do not lmf. N the pbrt of the Wold Bank ad to  
B             50           150            200           25f             aff/hiea amtPIdf!ment m 0.1l9.1 staNs of any tenr,rory or any andoreetenl bY   xl
MILES                                           acceptanceo  Nhootd.em
1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.C






BRD 15808
,,ftlN  074                                          tdhe   k condeC -of th --dty t
i                                                Wand .; 5/ 1irilL'1/;1aA !+Ftr  5D  tht tth. - n- aft -dr f                                                                    INDONESIA
MAL AYSIA                                    P.II,tL OLffdh  the,  fltPot whioh tiLt 0 lIcAp
.   S >; X   MALYSIA5                              m ,  ,L   rheootobdM ttioeth-ed codl-                                                              RURAL    ROADS   DEVELOPMENT    PROJECT
do -at bOtOIy, -t 'he Pat of the
G     K'XAJANMAP    SiL        S     < E                Wo,d Baok ad ial OrItSl.a. ty                                                                                                W S
'P` cf                     AA                  V_Wd.10    WAEST JAVA
t_   k Sf LAlriEsl SEOtAM  $,20K           ; udg jteot n the 1;feRa *10 Of
)'a-_o,AN  _   lAId aAYA p. taot L'itt'tvcP .t. a ho p-do f-                                                                                    PROJECT PROVINCES
~~~~~t0,  If  S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fF.Mto PlttW  LN1Z36 [NO
MW~ ~4 0050  S       F.E tZ                                                                         o                                                                                          e      L- I ORE  tVICUS PROJECT CONSTRUCTtON JFII PrMje.t LN tIO  NEt
MAP CR[A     -P--nc)jOdLl  5                                                                                                                                                        IFREVOQiS JAKARTA - CIKAUPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
/. 1''pRCONSTRUCTION
......IM..RSIVtMENTS
-_______  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
- ____PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
P+--   AILWAYS
, /                                                                             J   A   V   A         S  f  A                                                          K- - AOUPATEN BOUNDARtESS
PROVINCIAL. BOUNDARIES
6 INTERNATIONAL ONODARES                      a
S0
~~~~~~~~~~~TANSIRANG                                                         KARAWANG=
LeEnuan              f~t kb
I) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~            -
'j/                       PA'ILEsLAKG                               1                                           /'Y          PgUPWAKARTAN            )
70
o   20  40UMAN
g SUK(ABUM/   j/(I -X(VN
MILES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAI
O  10=>,0 20lAsJUe 3E  40   0  0                                                   1070                                                                                                  ,,W A/   R  A        J  A  1- A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T St -                                                 A/LA YA                                     '
A/  0    A N    O C F A N  /.V 
KILOMETERS l2 4oL05   TS 6pp 8D<
MI LES or                                                                                                 I__It  S  
O10  20J 30  40  501007                                                                                                                              5
ioe                                                     107



