Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            FILE   COPY
Report No. P-3174-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 625
Rp 100        =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million  -  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)  -  1,000 grams = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton     =  1,000 kg   2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)   -  10,000 square meters (sq m) - 2.47 acres
1 meter (i)      -  39.37 inches
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS    - National Planning Agency
BAPPEDA I   - Provincial Planning Agency
BAPPEDA II - Kabupaten Planning Agency
BRI         - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CIPTA KARYA - Directorate General of Housing and Urban/Regional
Development (Ministry of Public Works)
DGH         - Directorate General of Highways
DPUK        - Kabupaten (District) Public Works Agency
DPUP        - Provincial Public Works Agency
ERR         - Economic Rate of Return
GoI         - Government of Indonesia
ICB         - International Competitive Bidding
MHA         - Ministry of Home Affairs
HOC         - Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
MPW         - Ministry of Public Works
ODA         - Official Development Assistance
PPAR        - Project Performance Audit Report
REPELITA    - National Development Plan
SDRR        - Subdirectorate for Rural Roads (DGH)
vpd         - vehicles per day
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:         $100.0 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% p.a.
Project
Description:
The proposed project seeks to improve rural road infrastruc-
ture in selected provinces by strengthening the capacity of
the district public works agencies and by implementing an
expanded program of rural road works. The project will
support a rural road development program for a three-year
period beginning April 1982 in about 25 kabupatens
(districts) in the five provinces of North Sumatra, West
Sumatra, Bengkulu, Jambi and West Java. The programs will
be based on an improved methodology for screening possible
road works using data readily available and for selecting
economically justified works. In addition, the project
would support an improvement program for the provincial
public works agency in Jambi Province. Equipment will be
provided for force account work and for leasing to small
contractors. Consulting services will be provided to assist
in implementation of the road works programs, in monitoring
and evaluating those programs, and in preparing future
programs for additional districts and provinces. Because
the rural roads in the areas covered by the project are now
in such poor condition and because of the methodology used
in selecting road works, there is no significant risk that
the works included in the project would be uneconomic.
However, there is some risk that the district public works
agencies will not be capable of implementing the full
program of works as scheduled. This risk has been reduced
to acceptable levels through increased staffing, training
and technical assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                          Local  Foreign  Total
____ ($ million) ----
A. Civil Works of Capital Nature
1.  DPUK programs                                      93.3   37.2    130.5
2.  Jambi DPUP program                                  5.8    2.7       8.5
B. Equipment
1.  Roadwork equipment                                  1.9   34.3      36.2
2.  Miscellaneous equipment                             0.1    2.0       2.1
3. Vehicles and other equipment                         3.1   12.7      15.8
C.  DPUK Workshops                                          6.4    4.0      10.4
D.  Consulting Services                                     1.0    3.3       4.3
Base Cost                                     111.6   96.2    207.8
Physical contingencies                            11.1    9.6      20.7
Price contingencies                               56.0   20.7      76.7
Total Project Costs                           178.7  126.5    305.2
Financing Plan:                                           Local  Foreign  Total
($ million) ---
Bank                                     -     100.0   100.0
Government /1                          178.7    26.5   205.2
Total                             178.7   126.5   305.2
Estimated                  Bank FY    1983    1984    1985    1986
Disbursements:                       ---------($ million)-------
Annual          28.3    35.6    21.0    15.1
Cumulative     28.3    63.9    84.9   100.0
Rate of Return:        25%
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 3585-IND, dated December 10, 1981.
/1 In addition, GOI will finance $18.9 million in recurrent expenditures
for routine maintenance.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $100 million to help
finance a Rural Roads Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.         The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 145
million people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The popula-
tion density exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country; over 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita
is estimated to be $430.13
4.         The economy has grown at an annual rate of almost 8% for over a
decade - the highest sustained growth rate of any low-income country. Until
about the end of the First Five-Year Development Plan, Repelita I (1969/70 to
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Eleventh
Power Project (No. P-3132-IND), circulated under cover of R81-276, dated
October 22, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on November 10,
1981.
/2 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/3 Estimate for 1980.



1973/74), this rapid growth was largely due to effective recovery from the
severe dislocations of the 1960s. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took
effective action to restore and then maintain macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy and provide incentives for investment. There was a
major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure, and the investment rate
doubled to 18% of GDP.  Since then growth has been greatly assisted by
international developments, in particular the dramatic increase in oil prices
and the commodity boom. Net oil exports increased from $0.6 million in
1973/74 to over $10 billion in 1980/81 and as a result the balance of payments
moved into current account surplus - of $2 billion in 1979/80 and almost $3
billion in 1980/81 - for the first time in over two decades. Although
production linkages with other sectors have been very weak, the oil enclave
has had an important influence on overall growth through the infusion of
foreign exchange resources into the economy. Growth has been well diversi-
fied, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per annum in agriculture to
12% per annum in manufacturing and construction. However, despite the
favorable growth performance, the economy is still underdeveloped, with a
share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a persistent deficit on
the nonoil current account. Present projections of supply and demand for oil
suggest a decline in net export revenues of the oil sector in relation to the
growing needs of the economy, in the second half of the decade. For viable
long-run growth the economy will have to undergo significant structural
changes during the 1980s, to effect a broad-based expansion of industrial
production and of both industrial and agricultural exports.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country.  It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population.  Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes.  Total employment has been increasing at 3.3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas.  There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion.  In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, utile the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period.  Because
the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby



- 3 -
encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance for
the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.         Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family planning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains underdeveloped, and only 12% of the population has access to
safe water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.         Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The three primary goals of the Third Five-Year Development Plan,
Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84), are equity, growth and the maintenance of
national stability. The fact that Indonesia's resource position is likely to
be favorable for the first half of the 1980s presents the country with an
unusual opportunity to take effective policy action to bring about the
adjustments required to realize these goals.
9.         Although the main concern for the allocation of the resource wind-
fall is with long-run development, the maintenance of short-run stability is
also important. The channeling of the foreign exchange resource into the
economy, not least via the GOI budget, is already putting pressure on
domestic markets and encouraging a rapid expansion of liquidity. There is a
risk that medium-term supply responses will be too slow to prevent an
acceleration of inflation and an erosion of international competitiveness.
This emphasizes the importance of a distribution of incremental expenditure in
favor of improving sectoral supply responses. In particular, it is important
that a reasonable expansion of credit to the private sector be maintained - in
the past this has been excessively squeezed to maintain monetary stability.
This could entail a slower rate of expansion of GOI expenditure.



- 4 -
10.       The performance of the industrial sector will be of critical impor-
tance to long-run development. GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments, in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for employment
is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing. The
1978 devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved
the profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export
industries and was accompanied by a system of export certificates (tax
rebates) to provide additional incentives. The trade regime is still
characterized by a wide variation in rates of effective protection, but GOI
is taking measures to rationalize the system. However, the private sector
also suffers from a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and limitations on the availability of credit. These
will require further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to
private investment.
11.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia faces a
potentially serious long-run energy problem. Oil and gas now account for 98%
of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage,
in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower and geothermal
potential. This will require both a major investment program in this decade
and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more efficient energy
use. The most important policy measure required is the gradual elimination of
the subsidy on some petroleum products that is now a major distortion in the
system.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (agriculture accounted for 75% of 1979 non-oil export revenue), food pro-
duction and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record
level of around 20 million tons in 1980, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier, largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agri-
cultural technology. Future investment in physical infrastructure, especially
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting.
This will require substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing.
13.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, although the high
rates of unemployment amongst secondary school leavers suggest a major



mismatch between supply and demand at this level. In the short run there is
scope for better utilization of existing manpower through stopgap training
schemes, while available foreign exchange resources could be used to finance
fellowships abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is
also a strong justification for the use of incremental resources in the health
sector. However, increased outlays on health infrastructure will have to be
complemented by the development of innovative approaches to identifying and
tackling health problems, involving the participation of local communities.
The successful family planning program provides a good model.
14.       The public sector has been of growing importance, with central
government expenditures now accounting for around 30% of GDP. A significant
fraction of incremental resources, about 50% in 1980/81, has gone directly to
public and private consumption in the form of higher civil service and
military salaries from initial low levels, and subsidies on commodities.
Subsidies on petroleum products, food and fertilizer have grown very rapidly
to a budgeted level of over $3 billion in 1981/82. Although this has shielded
the economy from sudden shocks, the long-run impact on inflation is likely to
be limited and consumption data suggest that the main beneficiaries have not
been the very poor. Resources for development have also risen rapidly, to the
extent that it now appears that the financial constraint is often less
important than nonfinancial constraints, including the availability of skilled
manpower, the capacity of the construction industry and limited administrative
capability. The administrative framework for project implementation was
greatly improved in 1979 by the introduction of simplified appropriation
procedures and the adoption of post-expenditure auditing practices. However,
restrictions in eligibility of certain smaller contracts to small firms
controlled by economically weak groups is likely to delay local project
implementation. Wider issues of administration, including the question of
decentralization, are also under review. Finally, there is a continuing need
to increase allocations to maintenance of public investments, notably in
irrigation and roads.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
15.       The external resource surplus has greatly helped GOI's budgetary
position. However, in order to reduce the dependence on oil revenue and lay
the foundation for long-term resource mobilization it is important to maintain
the domestic effort. Domestic revenue is of particular value since expendi-
ture from this source has a smaller inflationary impact than expenditure from
oil revenue. Non-oil tax revenue as a proportion of nonmining GDP actually
declined from almost 10% in 1978/79 to less than 9% in 1979/80 and 1980/81.
It is important that the capacity of the tax system be increased through
expanding the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving administration.
There is also great scope for mobilization of resources through reduction of
the subsidies on petroleum and other products. A steady rise in domestic
petroleum prices to the international level during the 1980s would have a
major impact on budget savings.



- 6 -
16.        External financing of GO1 expenditure is budgeted at $2.4 billion in
1980/81 or 20% of the development budget, compared with almost 40% in 1978/79.
Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was about $15 billion at
the end of 1980; including undisbursed amounts, external public debt totalled
almost $24 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the
principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. New commitments in 1980 were almost equal
to the $2.1 billion recommended in the Bank's 1980 economic memorandum on
Indonesia. Public sector commercial borrowings are estimated to have reached
$1.7 billion in 1980. With the increased availability of foreign exchange, in
the near term capital inflows are not required on resource grounds. However,
during the disbursement periods of projects currently being considered, a
resource gap will re-emerge in Indonesia. In addition, there is still an
urgent need for support of policy and institutional changes embodied in
foreign loans. It is anticipated that ODA will continue at a reduced real
level, and on harder terms, in the first half of the 1980s. It is of
particular importance that external finance be used to support policies
designed to prevent the re-emergence of a serious resource deficit toward the
end of the decade. It is anticipated that the public debt service ratio, with
oil exports on a net basis, will remain in the region of 9-10% for the first
half of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /A
17.        As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979
was about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of
1980, these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture
(including transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over
one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In
addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all other
sectors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban develop-
ment, water supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial development
financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications,
population and technical assistance.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Eleventh
Power Project (No. P-3132-IND), circulated under cover of R81-276, dated
October 22, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on November 10,
1981.



-7-
18.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
19.       The resource surplus discussed in Part I of this report provides
GOI with a unique opportunity to accelerate its development effort. This
will require both effective policy reform, notably in improving the policy
environment for private investment, and major investments in industry, infra-
structure, treecrop development and human resources development. The Bank's
program of lending and economic work is being geared to support the required
measures. Since the resource constraint has been alleviated, at least
temporarily, the primary emphasis of Bank involvement will be on policy and
institutional development and technical assistance in the key sectors. This
will involve a close integration between sector work and lending and the
gradual broadening of lending to the subsector and sector level in order to
assist with policy issues at this level.
20.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves
a rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth, and it is planned to follow this with a series of industrial
projects. In energy, new sector work and continued lending will concentrate
on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and
improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and treecrops will continue to absorb
a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance of these sectors,
and continued support for transport is anticipated. Increased lending is
planned in the areas of provision of social services, in population, health
and nutrition, urban development and water supply. In these areas there
will be increased emphasis on institutional support and the develpoment of
innovative low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will
focus on improving the working of the whole health care system at the level
of a specific province.
21.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to
be related to GOI-s cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.



-8-
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both man-
agerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and
the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited
Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying
budgetary and financial procedures. GOI and the Bank have also instituted
formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general and project-
specific problems and work out corrective measures. The first of these
reviews was held in June 1979 and subsequent reviews were held in September
1980 and October 1981. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta
in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint
initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally,
to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now
being presented for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle.
Indications are that, as a result of these efforts, improvements are taking
place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million
in FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. While it is
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are
encouraging.
22.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
23.       The proposec project constitutes the fifth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
highway, Eleventh Power, and Second Seeds Projects have already been approved
by the Executive Directors this fiscal year and the Bukit Asam coal mining
development and transportation project has been submitted for consideration.
Projects under advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the tenth
education, sixteenth and East Java Province irrigation, sixth nucleus estates
and smallholders, and national fertilizer distribution projects.
PART III - THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
24.       Within the Indonesian transport system, road transport is the
principal mode. About 93% of all goods and about 99% of all passengers
transported in Indonesia in the mid-seventies were accommodated by road.
Maritime transport, including interisland ferries, is the second most
important mode, accounting for about 95% of all freight movements and roughly
75% of all passenger trips between the islands. The railway system is the
third mode in terms of volumes of cargo. Domestic air transport, the fourth
principal mode, has been growing very rapidly in the last decade, especially
for passenger travel.



GOI Expenditures for the Transport Sector
25.       Within each of the three Five-Year Development Plans the alloca-
tions to the transport sector have accounted for about 15% of the total
development budget. Of these allocations, about half have been for the road
subsector. During Repelita I and II emphasis was placed on rehabilitation
of the existing transport infrastructure rather than new construction. As
an increasing proportion of major road links have been brought into service-
able condition, larger resources have been provided directly to the lower
levels of government for development of infrastructure, especially rural
roads.
26.       Under present policies, development and operation of the transport
sector is subsidized by other sectors of the economy, and this is an important
issue in the Bank's ongoing discussions with GOI. The largest subsidy is
that given for gasoline and diesel fuels. Even following the 50% increase
in fuel prices in May 1980, the retail prices of gasoline and diesel (Rp 150
and Rp 45 per liter, respectively) were 36% and 76% below their respective
world market prices in June 1980. The economic subsidies for petroleum
products used in transport alone are estimated to have been Rp 750 billion
in 1980, comparable to the total transport development budget or about 2% of
the GNP. Fuel pricing is a major focus of the Bank's ongoing work on the
energy sector and an important issue in the Bank's continuing dialogue with
GOI. The sector is also subsidized in the sense that, although revenues
from user charges and taxes apparently cover the estimated maintenance and
operating costs of the national, provincial and kabupaten road system, they
do not also cover the full expenditures by GOI in developing the transport
system. However, the incidence and equity of the taxes pose problems in
that commercial vehicles are subject to extremely low taxes with the result
that they contribute only about 2% of the cost of developing and maintaining
the road infrastructure while accounting for almost 80% of the total road
traffic. Under a covenant in the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1696-IND), GOI
is committed to formulating and implementing a program to increase road user
charges; a consultant study to assist GOI in this effort is now underway and
is being carefully monitored by the Bank.
The Road Network
27.       The nonurban public road network totals more than 300,000 km,
including about 200,000 km of village roads. The public roads above the
village level are administratively classified as "national" (about 12,000 km),
"provincial" (about 27,000 km), and "district" (about 67,000 km), indicating
their relative importance as well as the level of government primarily
responsible for development and maintenance. Of the kabupaten (district)
roads, which are the focus of this project, it is estimated that 42% are
paved, 14% gravel, and 44% earth. About 60% of these roads are in poor to bad
condition.
GOI Organizations Concerned with the Road Subsector
28.       Primary responsibility for the'development and maintenance of the
road system rests with the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) within the



- 10 -
Ministry of Public Works (MPW). However, at the provincial and kabupaten
levels substantial responsibility for roads is given to integrated public
works agencies (DPUPs and DPUKs respectively) which are administratively
controlled by the provincial and kabupaten governments under the authority
of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and which receive technical support
from MPW. Other GOI agencies involved in the subsector are the Ministry of
Communications (MOC), which establishes transport policies, and the National
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), which reviews sector development plans and
prepares jointly with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) the development budget.
Vehicles and Traffic
29.        Indonesia's motorized vehicle fleet has been growing rapidly in
the last decade:  about 11% p.a. for four-wheel vehicles and nearly 20% p.a.
for motorcycles.  In 1978, registered vehicles totalled about 0.9 million
four-wheeled (or more) vehicles and 1.9 million motorcycles. Almost all
trucks have payloads under four tons. Nonmotorized vehicles ranging from
animal-drawn carts to bicycles also play a very important role in the
transport of people and goods, especially in rural areas where the roads are
often not passable by large vehicles.
30.        Systematic traffic counting has been carried out on the national
and provincial highways since 1970. The growth rate of truck traffic has
been about 15% p.a.; for buses, about 11-14% p.a.; and for cars, 20-25% p.a.
No comprehensive traffic counts have been made at the kabupaten level,
although sample counts indicate traffic levels vary from about 2,000
vehicles per day (vpd) to less than 10 vpd, with motorcycles accounting for
perhaps half of motorized vehicles and with substantial numbers of
nonmotorized vehicles.
Administration and Planning
31.        DGH is responsible for planning and implementing a five-year roll-
ing program of major road works.  It also coordinates the rehabilitation
and maintenance and minor construction programs which are carried out by the
DPUPs and DPUKs with central government funds. The new Subdirectorate for
Rural Roads (SDRR), established in 1979 within DGH, is responsible for: organ-
izing road inventories and other data needed to support provincial and
kabupaten road development programs; analyzing local road transportation and
traffic; standardizing planning; developing construction programs; and
developing standard technical procedures, standards, manuals and organiza-
tion and equipment requirements. Long-range planning for road development
is done by the Directorate of Housing and Urban/Regional Development (Cipta
Karya) within MPW. This agency, directed by a GOI Steering Committee,
carried out the preparation of this rural roads project.
32.        DPUPs and DPUKs report directly to the chiefs of the provincial
and kabupaten governments (the Governor and Bupati, respectively) which are
under the authority of MHA. DPUPs have a functional relationship with MPW,
x,.ich provides them with technical direction and some senior staff.  There



- 11 -
is no direct line of cOmmunication between the DPUK and the DPUP, and DPUK's
requests for assistance must go through the Bupati to the Governor's office
to the DPUP. Thus, although DPUPs review the DPUKs' road plans, the DPUKs
receive very little technical assistance from the higher level agencies.
GOI intends to issue a joint instruction from MHA and MPW to provide a
formal channel of communication from DPUPs to DPUKs.
33.       Responsibility for planning the program of road works at the lower
level is shared between the DPUPs and DPUKs on the one hand and the Provin-
cial and Kabupaten Planning Boards (BAPPEDA I and BAPPEDA II, respectively)
on the other. Coordination among the kabupaten, provincial, and central
agencies involved in the kabupaten road programs is undertaken by the
Development Bureau of the Provincial Secretariat.
Implementation of Road Works (Engineering, Construction, and Maintenance)
34.       DGH's design work is done by the Directorate of Planning, which
has demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for a wide range
of road and bridge construction and to supervise a large volume of design
work by consultants. In addition, the design office provides technical
assistance on request to DPUPs and DPUKs. Design work for kabupaten roads
is the responsibility of the DPUKs. Due to lack of trained staff and equip-
ment, designs are usually simple. In some cases, only a line diagram and
cross sections are used for contracting; soil investigations are normally
not used. For bridges under 30 meters, structural design is done by the
DPUKs, usually following DGH standard designs and sometimes with DPUP
assistance. Bridges over 30 meters are approved by the DPUP and, in special
cases, by DGH. In general, assistance by DPUPs is limited because the DPUP
must use its own budget when providing assistance to the DPUKs.
35.       Responsibility for construction lies with DGH for national high-
ways and some major works on provincial roads, with DPUPs for provincial
roads and some minor works on national highways, and with DPUKs for
kabupaten roads. The works are executed under a variety of arrangements.
Most typical for minor construction is the use of small contractors who
supply labor and local materials but use equipment and manufactured
materials supplied by the involved road authority.  Supervision of these
contractors is often weak due to lack of trained staff, especially at the
DPUK level. Some DPUPs have force account construction units for road
building.
36.       Maintenance of the national and provincial roads is carried out by
the DPUPs partly with provincial funds and partly with central government
funds through the DCH and MHA budgets. In addition, maintenance is suppor-
ted by allocations by DGH to the DPUPs of equipment, bitumen, steel, and
other materials. Maintenance activities are divided into three budget
categories: maintenance; rehabilitation; and support works. "Maintenance"
covers only routine works on "stable" roads, i.e., those that can be kept in
good condition by predictable and modest expenditures. While the categories



- 12 -
"rehabilitation" and "support works" are essentially similar (equivalent to
periodic or heavy maintenance in other road systems), the former applies only
to "stable" roads and the latter to "unstable" roads, which represent the
bulk of Indonesia's system at present. Although substantial progress has
been made since Repelita I in restoring the road network to serviceable
condition, there are many deficiencies in the organization and execution of
maintenance by the DPUPs. The DPUP improvement programs, financed under the
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1696-IND) for eight provinces and extended to
Jambi province under this project, seek to correct these deficiencies in
organization, practice, funding arrangements, supply of materials, and
deployment of staff.
37.        Maintenance of rural roads is the responsibility of DPUKs
except for those kabupatens in which the DPUK is not capable of handling
this work. The concept of "stable" and "unstable" roads is applied also at
the kabupaten level, and most work falls into the category of "support
works." GOI has recently decided to allow use of central government funds
for "maintenance" at the kabupaten level.
Manpower Planning and Training
38.       DGH staff has about doubled in the last five years and now exceeds
4,000. DGH has developed a long-term manpower plan with the assistance of
consultants financed by the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Loan 1236-IND
and Loan 1696-IND). DPUK staff average about 200 permanent and 65 temporary
employees per kabupaten. Perliminary, short-term manpower plans for the 25
kabupatens covered by this project have been developed. At all levels, the
lack of qualified and experienced staff remains an important problem and
therefore training is an essential part of manpower development. DGH
training programs have expanded rapidly with support from the Third (Credit
388-IND), Fourth, and Fifth Highway Projects. Training for kabupaten-level
staff is now being provided by DGH training programs in road maintenance,
equipment operation and maintenance, and related trades. Through its Local
Government Training Project, financed in part by USAID, MHA has recently
started training for BAPPEDA I and BAPPEDA II staff.
Financing of Road Works
39.        DGH's road works are financed entirely through the Central Govern-
ment budget. DPUP's works are financed from both provincial revenues and a
comprehensive development grant from the Central Government called Inpres /1
Propinsi. The chief sources of funds for the DPUKs are grants from the
Central Government (Inpres Kabupaten and Inpres Jalan) and revenues from
/1  Acronym for Instruksi President uhich refers to grants from the Central
Government to lower levels of government given on the instruction of the
President and included in the MRA budget.



- 13 -
the local property tax (Ipeda)./l The Inpres Kabupaten grant, established
in 1970, provides funds to kabupatens on a per capita basis for development
of economic infrastructure; some 70% of the grant has been used for roads and
bridges. The Inpres Jalan, first used in 1979, was solely for construction
and rehabilitation of roads and bridges and was intended to supplement
Inpres Kabupaten in the less densely populated areas. Beginning in 1980,
GOI decided that both Inpres Kabupaten and Inpres Jalan could also be used
for routine maintenance.
40.       The total budget for road works has almost doubled between 1979
and 1981, and an increasing share is being devoted to rural roads (35% in
1981). Most expenditures by the districts continue to be made through the
Inpres Kabupaten, as procedural problems have caused slow disbursement of
the Inpres Jalan funds. Within the next year, GOI intends to consolidate
funding of rural road works under the Inpres Jalan programs.
Experience under Previous Bank-Group Financed Road Projects
41.       Bank Group lending for highways in Indonesia has been adapted
to the evolving needs of the highway system. The First Highway Project
($28 million, June 1969, Cr. 154-IND) helped restore communications in
Indonesia, after a long period of neglect, by providing equipment and
materials for a maintenance program and rehabilitation of about 3,000 km
of roads. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR), SecM78-524,
indicates that the project had delays in the maintenance program due to poor
project formulation. The Second Highway Project ($34 million, June 1971,
Cr. 260-IND) was used primarily to help rebuild a section of the Trans-
Sumatra Highway. The Third Highway Project ($14 million, April 1973, Cr.
388-IND) helped financed reconstruction of a road to a new irrigation area
in Sulawesi. It also included an important training component for highway
personnel as well as studies and design of road improvements subsequently
financed under the Fourth Highway Project ($130 million, April 1976, Ln.
1236-IND). The construction element under the Second Highway Project was
completed in 1977 and under the Third Highway Project in December 1978. As
detailed in the PPAR, SecM81-4, January 6, 1981, the second project had
relatively small delays and cost overruns, W.hile the third project had
significant delays (mobilization problems in a very remote area and
unusually wet weather) and increased construction costs (due to
underestimate of quantities and sharp price increases after the oil price
rise). The second project yielded a re-estimated economic rate of return
(ERR) of 20% and the third project of only 8% (compared to the appraisal
estimate of 13%) caused by the above-mentioned difficulties.
42.        The Fourth Highway Project represented a new departure in several
ways. The project (a) sponsored the establishment of four regional Road
Betterment Offices; (b) supported a large-scale and complex program of major
/ 1 Several other sources are estimated to account for less than 10% of the
infrastructure development budgets.



- 14 -
construction projects primarily for the betterment of existing roads; (c)
included assistance to strengthen virtually all functions of DGH; (d) helped
initiate studies of other institutions concerned with highways such as
provincial and district public works agencies, and consultants and contrac-
tors engaged in highway works; and (e) provided for studies of highway laws,
road user charges, and vehicle weights and dimensions regulations. Although
about two years behind schedule, over 1,200 km of road betterments have been
put under contract, and 90% of the project had been completed by mid-1981.
Positive changes have also been effected in the planning, design, budgeting,
and control procedures of DGH.
43.        The Fifth Highway Project covers all important programs of DGH,
particularly at the DPUP level.  The project provides finance for:
(a) components of DGH's bridge replacement program; (b) some works executed
by provincial public work departments; (c) measures to study and improve the
highway institutions in some provincial governments; (d) expenditures to
upgrade road maintenance; and (e) outlays to strengthen Indonesian highway
consultants and contractors. There have been start-up delays in many
components of the project. Road betterment contracts for 531 km out of the
800 km planned have been awarded, and the balance is being tendered and
awards should be made by late 1981.  Consultants are in place for construc-
tion supervision, project monitoring, management assistance, a study of the
construction industry, and assistance in transport planning and regulations.
Other consultants have been mobilized to provide technical assistance to MOC
for a national highway safety scheme and development of new regulations for
vehicle weights and dimensions. The eight DPUP programs have been defined
and equipment tenders are being evaluated; however, the increased GOI budget
for these programs will lead to an expansion of road works.
44.        The Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project was approved by the Board in
September 1981. This project would increase road capacity between these
towns by construction of a new 72 km long toll road and by improvements to
the existing highway. Construction would include interchanges and spur
roads for access to the new toll facility.  The project also includes
consulting services for toll road management and for regional transport
planning. In addition to the Bank loan of $85 million for this project, the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is providing $60 million toward
the total estimated cost of $356 million.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.        The proposed project was identified in discussions between GOI
and the Bank in 1978 and prepared by GOI with the assistance of consultants
financed under the Fifth Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 898-IND).  The
project was appraised in February/March 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
3585-IND) is being circulated separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington from November 18 to November 25, 1981, with a GOI delegation led
by Mr. Suryatin Sastromijoyo, Director General of Highways. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The objectives of the project are to: (a) provide better mobility
in selected rural areas by improving access to isolated areas with develop-
ment potential and by improving high priority rural access roads through
construction, betterment and rehabilitation; (b) strengthen the capacity of
kabupaten staff to plan, implement, and maintain the kabupaten road network;
(c) provide a rural roads support works and maintenance program; (d) monitor
these activities to provide improved management techniques and work methods
for rural roads and prepare similar programs in additional provinces and
kabupatens. This will be the Bank's first venture in assisting rural road
development, and the project will cover about 25 of the 259 kabupatens in
Indonesia.
47.       The project will include the following components:
(a) rural roads development programs covering rural road work
activities programmed over a three-year period beginning in fiscal
year 1982/83 in about 25 kabupatens selected in the five provinces
of North Sumatra, West Sumatra, Bengkulu, Jambi, and West Java.
To help implement these programs, the project will finance all
equipment required for improved support works and maintenance and
about 50% of the equipment required for construction, betterment,
and rehabilitation works;
(b)  a DPUP improvement program for the province of Jambi and the
purchase of equipment required for execution of support works and
road maintenance, including tools and workshop machinery;
(c) establishment of workshops in participating kabupatens for preven-
tive maintenance and minor repair of road construction and
maintenance equipment;
(d) purchase of miscellaneous equipment to be used by the agencies
involved in the execution of the above road programs; this will
include engineering tools and equipment, and workshop, training and
monitoring equipment for the selected kabupatens, DPUPs in the
five project provinces, DGH, and MHA; and
(e) consulting services to provide technical support and assistance
for:
(i)  implementation of the road programs in the kabupatens;
(ii) implementation of the improvement program in the Jambi DPUP;
(iii)  establishing systems and procedures for monitoring all road
work activities and institutional aspects of the project as
well as sampling and evaluating the development impacts of
improved roads in the selected kabupatens;



- 16 -
(iv) preparation of further rural road development programs in
about 100 additional kabupatens; and
(v) preparation of DPUP improvement programs in the remaining
18 provinces.
48.        The rural road program, which is the largest project component,
includes limited new construction (estimated at about 5 km per kabupaten per
year), improvements to existing roads (about 60 km per kabupaten per year),/l
bridge replacement and repair (about 60 m of new bridges per kabupaten per
year) and routine maintenance. These programs will be based on a systematized
methodology using data readily available at the kabupaten level developed by
GOI with the assistance of consultants for this project. The methodology
involves simple screening and ranking procedures, supplemented by sample
evaluations of representative roads, to ensure that the program of works is
economically justified. Following the procedures presented in manuals to be
used by participating kabupatens, benefits and costs would be estimated from
standardized tables. The tables estimate benefits (discounted at 12% over ten
years) based on population and hectares of cultivable land within the zone of
influence of the road and estimate costs based on unit values for the various
categories of proposed improvement. Only subprojects whose benefit-cost ratio
are one or more may be included in the program for Bank disbursement, assuring
that no subproject would have an economic rate of return less than 12%.
During negotiations an assurance was obtatnetd that GOI would follow agreed
screening and evaluation procedures for each rural road improvement program to
be included in the project (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
programs will also incorporate new technical standards for design of rural
roads. Detailed first year programs for 25 kabupatens have already been
prepared by DPUK staff and consultants. During implementation, DPUK and
BAPPEDA II staff with assistance from consultants will continue to prepare
annually three-year rolling programs with detailed plans for the first year.
The kabupaten programs will be reviewed at the provincial level by the DPUPs
and BAPPEDA I and then at the national level by a joint technical committee
composed of MHA, MPW, MOF, and BAPPENAS. As part of the regular reporting
procedure to the Bank, GOI would submit copies of each kabupaten's approved
annual program as well as the three-year rolling program for ex post review by
the Bank to ensure conformity with the agreed screening and evaluation
methodology.
Project Cost and Financing
49.        The total cost of the project, including contingency allowances,
is estimated at $305 million.  The foreign exchange component is $126 million.
In addition, GOI will finance $19 million for recurrent expenditures on DPUK
routine maintenance works. The basis of all costs is April 1981 prices.
Cost estimates for civil works are based on unit prices for various
categories of works and on road condition inventories in the selected
kabupatens. Depreciation of equipment financed by the project is excluded in
/1 Improvements include "betterment," i.e. upgrading road from unstable to
"stable" condition, "rehabilitation" of "stable" roads, and "support
works" on "unstable" roads.



- 17 -
calculating the value of civil works included in project costs. All costs
were estimated by consultants and reviewed by the Bank.  Total costs
include: (a) physical contingencies of 10% on all items; (b) price
contingencies amounting to 36% of base cost plus physical contingencies
(local cost inflation is projected at 18% in 1981, 14% in 1982, and 10% p.a.
thereafter, and foreign cost inflation at 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, and 7.5%
in 1983-85). The average man-month cost for expatriate consultants,
including the cost of travel and allowances (estimated at $1,500 per
man-month), is $8,500. In addition to these costs, local facilities,
related equipment and materials are estimated at $750 per man-month.
50.        The proposed loan of $100 million would cover about 35% of total
project costs minus the cost of equipment financed exclusively by GOI under
reserved procurement ($20 million). GOI would finance all remaining project
costs. GOI's share of the rural roads programs would be financed mainly from
Inpres Jalan for the civil works, from DGH's annual development budget for
the road equipment and the Jambi DPUP improvement program, and from DGH's or
MHA's annual development budget for the miscellaneous equipment items and
the consulting services. It is GOI's intention to consolidate funding for
the rural roads program under Inpres Jalan, although Inpres Kabupaten funds
may also be used to finance project works in the early stages of the
project.
Implementation
51.        Implementation of the rural road program would be the responsibi-
lity of the DPUK in each selected kabupaten. The DPUKs would be supported
by project units established specifically to execute the expanded program of
road works. The DPUK, in collaboration with BAPPEDA II, would prepare the
three-year rolling program applying the agreed screening methodology and
doing the engineering documentation. It would then execute civil works
under force account, arrange for tenders for other civil works, and supervise
all works. About half of the construction and betterment work would be
undertaken using equipment financed under the project for either force
account work or for leasing to small contractors. The remaining work would
be undertaken by contractors who would mobilize their own equipment. This
proportion is based on the approximate percentage of the value of works
which can be tendered in contracts large enough to attract firms which are
able to mobilize the necessary equipment (para. 57).  To ensure that the
DPUKs are able to undertake this increased work, the Bank, during
negotiations, obtained assurances from GOI that it would: (a) provide
additional qualified staff to the DPUKs consistent with a manpower plan,
covering a three-year period beginning April 1, 1982, agreed between GOI and
the Bank; (b) appoint by April 1, 1982, the required number of on-site
project managers and assistant managers to assist the DPUKs; and (c) prepare
by April 1, 1983, a long-term manpower plan, including permanent staff
positions, for the participating DPUKs, submit the plan to the Bank for its
review and comment, and carry out the plan (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement). To ensure greater technical support to the



- 18 -
DPUKs, GOI intends to issue a joint instruction by February 1982
establishing a direct working relationship between the DPUKs and DPUPs.
Technical assistance to the DPUKs will be provided by expatriate consultants
(para. 55) and by seconded staff from DGH. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that these consultants will be appointed by July 1, 1982, and
that about 20 experienced staff will be seconded for DPUK technical support
by April 1, 1982, and that about 10 experienced staff will be seconded for
preparation of further DPUK programs by July 1, 1982 (Section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Deployment among the DPUKs of construction equipment financed
under the project would be the responsibility of the DPUPs in the five
provinces, which would undertake all major repairs and overhauls through
their workshops or by contract. Maintenance and minor repairs would be the
responsibility of the DPUKs utilizing the workshops to be established under
the project. The road maintenance equipment financed under the project
would be permanently assigned to the DPUKs, which would be fully responsible
for its maintenance.
53.       Training of DPUK and BAPPEDA II staff would be undertaken through
existing DGH and MHA training programs as well as through on-the-job train-
ing by consultants and seconded DGH staff. During negotiations, the Bank
obtained assurances that: (a) DPUK and other selected staff from participa-
ting kabupatens who have been identified during project preparation as
requiring further training (about 2,000 staff) would be enrolled in DGH
training courses by July 1, 1982; and (b) BAPPEDA II staff from participating
kabupatens would, to the extent possible, be enrolled in the MHA Local
Government Training program (Sections 3.08 and 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.       Administrative arrangements for the employment of all consultants,
except those assigned to MHA for monitoring services, would be the responsi-
bility of DGH.  Of the consultants providing technical support for the rural
road programs, a core team of 5-7 experts would be based in Jakarta under
DGH's administration and field teams of 3-4 experts would be based in each
province under the administration of the DPUPs.
55.       DGH would be responsible for implementation of the DPUP improve-
ment program and preparation with assistance from consultants of future DPUK
and DPUP programs. General coordination of project activities, implementa-
tion of monitoring services with assistance of consultants, and reporting
would be the responsibility of a Project Secretariat to be established in
MHA with structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.11 of
draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The project will be implemented over a three-year period.  Civil
works for the rural road programs would begin in April 1982 and continue



- 19 -
in annual cycles through the end of FY84/85. All road equipment would be
procured by August 1982. The DPUP improvement program in Jambi would also
be implemented over the three-year period FY82/83-FY84/85.
Procurement
57.        Civil works will be executed by force account and by contract.
These works will include 600 to 700 small road sections with an average length
about 6 km. All civil works to be carried out by contractors whether as part
of a DPUK program or the Jambi DPUP program would be based on unit price
contracts. This type of contract amounts to some $320,000 on average and
cannot be bulked because the road sections or bridges are scattered over large
areas. These contracts are too small to be of interest to foreign
contractors, even if they are established locally; no civil works contract is
expected to exceed Rp 1 billion ($1.6 million). Therefore, international
competitive bidding (ICB) will not be required. All contracts would be
awarded in accordance with GOI regulations which require competitive bidding
for works exceeding Rp 20 million ($32,000). For contracts below that amount,
the regulations allow selection from among prequalified contractors by prudent
shopping. GOI procedures are designed to encourage indigenous and small firms
in the district in which the contracts are executed; they will permit
efficient procurement for the non-force account works under this project.
Given the limited capacity of the construction industry in the project area,
it is necessary to use force account for about 30% of the road works; this
force account work will be the responsibility of the DPUKs (para. 51). During
negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that civil works for individual
road links estimated to cost more than Rp 200 million ($320,000 equivalent)
would be tendered as single contracts, for which bidding would not be
restricted to district-based firms (Schedule 4, Part C of the draft Loan
Agreement). This is consistent with existing GOI regulations and will ensure
that a substantial part of the works will be tendered among firms which are
better able to mobilize the necessary equipment.
58.        Equipment with an estimated base cost of $40 million will be
procured under ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference equal to
15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Other equipment
items (estimated base cost $16 million), primarily light trucks, jeeps,
pickups, and motorcycles, would be financed exclusively by GOI under proce-
dures which require local purchase, and this would therefore be treated as
reserved procurement. The miscellaneous equipment (estimated base cost
$2.1 million) will comprise several items with relatively low unit prices as
compared to road equipment. Local procurement in accordance with Government
procedures acceptable to the Bank will be carried out for these items costing
up to $100,000 each and up to an aggregate of $2.5 million.
59.        Bidding documents and award recommendations for equipment valued at
over $100,000 equivalent would be submitted to the Bank for its prior



- 20 -
approval. GOI will use standardized bid documents and contracts acceptable
to the Bank for civil works. These will not be routinely reviewed by the
Bank but GOI will maintain copies of the bid evaluations and awarded
contracts for the Bank's inspection.
60.        DGH would be responsible for hiring all consultants to be employed
under the project with the exception of a few experts to assist MHA with the
establishment of a monitoring system, who would be hired directly by MHA.
Selection of consultants with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank, and award of contracts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, would be made after a detailed evaluation of the proposals, and in
accordance with the principles and guidelines described in "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" (August 1981).
Disbursements
61.        Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made on the basis of:
(a) 20% of the total expenditures for civil works of a capital nature under
both the DPUK and the Jambi DPUP improvement programs; (b) 100% of the
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment; or 100% of the local
expenditure (exfactory price), excluding identifiable taxes and duties, of
locally manufactured equipment; or 65% of the total cost of locally
purchased equipment; and (c) 100% of total expenditures for consulting
services. Disbursements for equipment procured under ICB would be
documented by contracts and for other equipment by statements of
expenditures. Civil works to be financed from the Bank loan include road
works executed by contractors and by force account. Disbursements for civil
work would be based on statements of expenditure using reports of physical
progress as certified by project managers and the DPUKs and on agreed unit
costs for various categories of physical works. Responsibility for
preparing these statements would rest with the Project Secretariat in MHA.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that GOI would submit by
April 1, 1982, and each January 31 of subsequent years for Bank review and
approval the unit costs to be used in the coming fiscal year in calculating
the value of civil works against which disbursements will be made (Section
3.10 of draft Loan Agreement).
Auditing
62.        GOI has a formal system of audit ffiere both MOF and MHA through
its Provincial and Regional Inspectorates audit regional accounts. An
assurance was obtained that GOI would submit to the Bank, within six months
of the close of each financial year, an audit report on the kabupaten and
the Jambi DPUP accounts, in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request
(Section 4.02 of draft Loan Agreement). A detailed Bank review of GOI audit
systems is programmed to begin in 1982. Recommendations from this review
agreed between GOI and the Bank by early 1983 could be incorporated into the
final stages of this project.



- 21 -
Environmental Aspects
63.       Location of the civil works in the kabupaten roads programs,
whether betterments or new construction, is largely along existing align-
ments of roads, trails, or footpaths, thus minimizing the requirements for
additional land and disturbance to property.  Road improvements include
features like drainage improvements, raising of embankments to avoid flood-
ing, gravelling of earth roads, and bituminous sealing of gravel roads, all
of which would improve the environmental conditions along the roads.
Benefits and Risks
64.       Based on anticipated reductions in vehicle operating costs and
increased producer surplus, it is estimated that the economic rate of return
(ERR) for the proposed improvements to district roads in the 25 selected
kabupatens will be at least 25%. The ERR is based on analyses of about 240
road and bridge sections of just over 1,400 km in the sample five kabupatens'
total road network of 1,625 km. Using the methodology for screening and
evaluating road works, no works with an ERR of less than 12% will be included
in the rural road programs to be financed by the Bank.  The ERR for the Jambi
Improvement Program, which accounts for about 5% of project cost, is estimated
to be 30%.  The overall ERR for the project is estimated to be 25%.  The
project remains economically viable under a wide range of assumptions about
increases in investment costs, reduction in benefits and reduced traffic
growth rates. The project is expected to benefit the rural population of
these kabupatens by providing improved, less costly transport services
resulting in:
(a) increased contact with agricultural and other extension workers,
who will be provided with easier access to remote villages;
(b) increases in the quantity and improvements in the quality of
crop production through more reliable, lower cost delivery of
agricultural inputs; and
(c) subsistence farmers being able to switch cropping patterns from
subsistence to cash crops.
During the three-year implementation period, project works would involve for
all the selected kabupatens an estimated 28,000 man-years of labor and
Rp 11,800 million in wages.
65.       Because the great majority of rural roads are in such poor condition
but potentially serve large numbers of people, there is no significant risk
that the works included in the project would be uneconomic. However, the
Bank's experience with previous projects in Indonesia indicate that there are
risks of slow performance and inadequate maintenance. To avoid slow
performance on this project, GOI has started the internal procedures for
equipment procurement during project preparation. In addition to this, GOI



- 22 -
has begun the training of kabupaten staff and an assurance was obtained from
GOI that additional qualified staff will be assigned to the project. Also,
because the projects are mostly small road segments averaging about 6 km,
taking less than one year to complete, they are not expected to encounter
serious delays. GOI is aware of the inadequate maintenance problem and has
already taken steps at the kabupaten level to overcome this by providing
funding for support works and maintenance in the Inpres programs. While
these risks are not insignificant, they are considered acceptable because of
the above discussed safeguards.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
67.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 11, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 232-                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'8
TOTAL            1919.3                                            MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      286.4                   1960  /b    1970 lb       ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        80.0        140.0            370.0             232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           130.1        128.4            237.1             499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       94680.0    116143.0          142870.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6         17.1             19.8              17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                   219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                     388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                               2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Ett.                            49.3         60.5             74.4             153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          355.9        417.9            487.3             360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               40.7         44.0             40.8              37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                               56.2         53.5             56.3              59.2                   56.7
65 YKS. AND ABOVE                         3.1          2.5              2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.1          2.0              2.3               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                                    3.7          3.6              4.0               3.4                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           46.7         40.8             36.2              27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           24.8         17.7             13.3              10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.0          2.8              2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..        181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          0.2             27.1              20.4                   44.1
FOUD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                93.0        102.0            103.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         89.0         92.0            105.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                41.0         41.0             47.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              6.0          6.0              6.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           31.2         20.4             13.7              14.6                     4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          39.0         46.7             53.0              57.7                    64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                159.0        126.0            120.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                 3.0             12.0              30.1                 - 45.9
URBAN                                     .          10.0             35,0              65.8                    68.0
RURAL                                     ..          1.0              6,0              20.1                    34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ,.         12.0             15.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                                     ..         50.0             60.0              71.0                    71.0
RURAL                                     ..          4.0              5.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               46778.7      26498.5          13644.4            3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON               ..       7672.8           8851.9            6411.8                 2229.7
PUPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 1364.1       1644.6           1606.0            1132.8                  588.5
URBAN                                  251.8           ..            697.3             322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                     ..           ..           3159.0            5600.5                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..          ..             22.4
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    4.4          4.8
URBAN                                    4.9          5.3
RURAL                                    4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..          1.5
URBAN                                                 1.6
RURAL                                                 1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..               ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..               ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..               ..



- 24-                                          ANNEX I
Page a2 o f 5
INDONIWIA - ROCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKIRT
INDONESIA                           hUIRINCZ GROUPS (WIIHRTID AVUjACS
- HS0T RUCENT USIHASI
MOST REC05N      LOW INCCMI         ZIATL71
1960 Eb    1970 lb      3STThATSL b   ASIA A PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENiROL7LtENT RLATIOS
PRIMAXYi     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0             85.9                    99.,
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0              94.4                  100.6
PFIALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      6.0         16.0             22.0              38.J0a                 53.5
MALE                      10.0        21.0             27.0              34.E                   58.4
FEMALE                     3.0        11.0             18.0              18.O7jj                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)       20.0         22.0             20.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                39.6         29.0             30.0              32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                              14.0         13.0             17.0              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            39.0         56.6             62.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              1.0          2.1              3.5               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0             38.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              7.3               3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ..          ,.             17.7              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..          ..              0.8               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34752.5      41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.9         31.0             29.5              29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.8        66.3             59.1              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.4          9.7             11.8              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7        35.3             35.6              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                      54.2        49.5             50.1              51.5                   49.8
FIMALE                                    20.0        21.6             21.1              23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2          1.3             1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHLST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        33.7/c           23.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..        52.07Z           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         6.87F            6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS           ..        17.37T           14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USe PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            136.0             134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..            112.0             111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PEK CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..          ..            119.0                ..                  249.8
RURAL                                     ..          ..             98.0                .,                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..          ..             28.0              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                    ..           ..             51.0              51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/s   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/as  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Income recipients.
May, 1981



-2 5r
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DFNtPTIONSlf  0? tOCidi lftItATOPS
Metes:  Although the dart ar  dreen  fron..   . s     ....e eneall  judged the sept auhraiaad rl1iable, it ebaaid also be oo.d tht they may oa  be inter
nat ionally comarble because of the lack of standardizd definitionsan  ccpns need by diffren  ronrtsi  colcin                              .h date.  The date are, none-
theicee, usefu1l.t descrbe  _rder  of _m itoie,id icate .crede. end  h.rreteretl ao  dfeeosbetwenconris
The  eternce  roop  urn(I)  he ernscountry grup_  fthL   allr  coanney sa     I2 aIcoutry group ni tbhdna  htgber  -vargs  trm-             thn  ba canty group
of the suhiectorotrey  (oucart for "Capital torpius O~~i ootr"group eher  "fNddls inom   nrt  Africa sad nddle tat        hsb.nbrsa   fsrne
escrit  gt th  counties  Inagroup has dart for that indicator.  tiore. the  oeeeo   onre  amongrhntcarsdpensot                              h      tibln    fdt
LA.lity ol  (thouan  eqP   (Orlo  perAs lc                                                                                        .. te   I taL,. -ra , ad  rura - Pplain(ttl
Totot - Toal snot ac  area coarietog  lan  area andinten   eaters                     uran.ad.ualidyie   by th1Indr ripenth -iiI nuberlaty hospitalbd
lOPP01CAPid(In  -.lO  pe  caIt  ea1t-satnaI-  --    - at .crretilyr  pIe,ca-da  or   c  tot1 linclded,  rra  hositls  boevr   ncJlods healt
culre   hysnec             k-eso    nebd as gabhokAta   (91-9bet):ltb n                                         Ieta  c.Ier  000 perme- nil  se1ffod byaPhysiried  (hotl. by
1910, and 1979 dais.                                                              sedtculossisisan , nores. sidnife, err.) ebueb after la-paitest attain-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI ,-,!  bbl
ISI. I t..        dstn  ndprold  s Hli ited  renge of nsireh falllls -I,o atenfsd
enItd  bygoine  penroleos  natural gee soW yr-. iule   ndgohr                  ae-sd  rC'lhoptat  locl   r ras   optl   n   si                                       a    aent
trirty)  to ktogress of coaleqitoelent pe  ceIto  (lObe, 19b. end  1979                  .  -i. .srs ...plI.tee    opni  aetoae  onlyPif:;h   ender dnansi          h
Id   M  dt..    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ frnhspii   inddbyteo~s   fbds.                               h        L.(.tb 
PIELATCONSaUMTON PERi CTATPITAICt                                                                                   li-I ~ t              9   1-d.lfclt..    .   ,t.
dora                                                                                     Aeras  lie  ofMeueo..lorPos ap hosehld)  -dtost orha.lend  url
I90   91,sO1979l' -snai. .;b1  hoosahota fr st7ntetlosi  -utrtels
PeouletionProjection                                                             dosrese  ushno of rrsans tee  oan - tonl. urbse.  ad ru-sid
tPnuistionii  klo year 201-Cretpplto    rjcin    r   ae   n181                                      bro   esn  prreieal  os,aderi ooApidooeOa
reca1PsP foe.. fetMitY- rats also dhone thre  Jeo1i  eee160,97g decid in7                    lof  ea.nbe,edrri  el osrepp sy
U'd tifcf nstoor                                                                                  A hsh.civdol   fe    eriiyrcsdcier  rmrysho-g    oaeln:eesiyipue    birngdhl
the .r.placno   ee   f  otntrpodrlnrr,ohsnc   eest                                              er   a  sojuaed fo7aifdepentleogthe ofpiar   dctinCo
inteyer2 00.  n   h   atC  fdcio   ftrility  rot  todepac-                            acndr9scoo -f       tta,   al and: feae-               -end es save  esooodg r
nen  lael                                                                                edpsioooqireatleat  ooryers  f  pprve   prCr   nsrtie
leer stat1ioercoouato   inrn1bd     heyaraa  ore unrypoustonprc   gerars;   ocaional. orlinrg                                                       riigiunonos  o   ni
inoouistion lenttit                                                                        danllide.   - -t l.D1                  I      d  n-p_
?ersu.ko.aaolcoitnral hsI-con...te. astho-vte       -orrcu turaAccess ntloreee_t                                reets     f     -etonatts.ln  bone
ot-y:   it, 1971lf.          -- and 197i data.77urIT-:eC cher raio     ree                                                         a  srnar-oe  staeod enolsd  n
Poulti.. Ass Inucur..       ece 'li,Chilrn   0l   years)                    inrin-g   1f15-         pntr  and. scndar leve-ls ivided by inuheis of.. t-shr  to the.. .
oRulto    oohhth(ecn)- oa--bns   rrt   se  o   oa   nd                                               sprynaeo  total  dult.ppilandnfspe -                19 - yeasaa   er
year pouittooi    ir1i    0-t tbAl-Od  ao   07-9
Poonlatioc Cronib hat  (fercaco-urhn-P EouDUreCpaeAr oe  co-                              lfiitTItN
"huo   or15-i    IAn-I Itd197-7i                                                           Pesssner Ceo  (rr     ioo  ea andruistio       - GI...stg.. car _any lee_oto
poulton   ihO   197.i.an  t979" dare.                                                      nil itery ceh I           I
Crdtesbtrefe -p         ou- end.. -  onldeha rcoundofsd-year                                    tadl Pilern -v-a ioe  thusnd ltoon..l""ion   I-, dI. tpes of       . ro nr  for radio
poplaton   Al,p.  197,.f and 197  daa                                                             radraseoeea  pht   ertosn  of poput;ilton  solu.ds un-1
Cros  nrodctottee-oeegatabe  o  dugtas   sly         o'l tl   ea  :to.                     liesdrPoestcunrrddi   er  hceiteino   ai
hertoinld reprouctiv   peido  eeoeiacapesn   g-sa  Oc  s-et                                               b.t dretta Idat forrcenyer  mpnr  acoptshs  ic
Peelc Plotng    tens irrco  f- mrridZ  ouser)"il -    . P .rec.g  of ea,e                   Itouti    n   tyas  horgstaino  I  ass  s  i   fft
evnc  f  hid-eepngag   (5-4 par)  bous  btirth-controhatosc                               nepsretur Cir letioo  brer -rboneand  onul tion)- iho dsr 0aoepagc.t-
Inden oftFod          LIoduchic   -e ao     ll Th.iif      ce   ifrcrcoacri             Ccn    nuiOrvar   a  Centre oar...Tear - gased on the-' numsrof
produrtic  ofeifodcoita.yuucictldsee    c  Pe   vf-tleesoddrn                                                            theIear   ini  fln   admisso-tdrple-ints
tn on clendar  oar bais.Csoitscrr  rmr   od e.                       sgrao                   n    hled  units.,
tea are ear luddiy.. APreg1sta  produorico o kiolc conryt  bsd  nLul1tC
par; da1d9      lhesppiscsrs   oee                   rdcin6np0sls c,opaal:lh,17  end71979ddate.
enp.torcA.. an   hoe  i   tc.ta   upi--uld   cia   eo  sees,                                     esde lerool-Presle-t labo  -medts sopr-eg   f  os-ii-                      ore
iuo rlsoddt  iu  poeslg   ndbnsIcditouno.Onur-                                                 eiclua  cce-)- ao  freinfrc                     l.foety,Iot         e   a
nr    n   aihctIdrlpevcrnna copacr,bd   Pett., uIdnuty(vcet       ao   uc   in edoteg,  costuttn     Ienisotui                                                       t
fonhl nicl 91-l 91  aod 19)70dte                                                       190enP99.un
ollraceofAlpreeoftotl r19i  pr0ayso  2  prahnop of acinal or0                                 P.1910, 19)0, nod 197  data. -d  99eet are based..    oL.e itigh  'nr rernictatnes
oc IsDot Rocto,o  odsad) 10 eAse ehoOhohi p0                          Asosed-rfectpae-a    tucueo t                                    hehoplaio.d      adlngnn.ted
ocolcrrl  asa   oraafros  cl,prpsdb  fAl79                  rioThIr                PcconicDepedenc (Plscih-n  .ato.o  prpueniocdo1do   ledoe
Pcldrod-u-I       y l.P.dt -hi~,17f cd17  deco.                                                  no  th  cocc  laorfoce
Pe  cnt    rool s  el  fosaiai  ndoln-poti  eupyl  of foodAndida-
risdfrs1 oit sa  o  pulses i  pie   e   a:luI,17   n   07dc.                                110liThIldUAhlOn:t
Child  (aes 1-titiorcalro harm  ran choneod) -Octual dache pe  ttousad iv      Perendain piffr..         ocustd (bt  to cnt t    oYe iod) -Y nc-b  ce-    yroccl s
age gror 1-0  oars,  n chiidav to  his ag  cr0 60: iO 97sca  dvlPcoc0Srrer,rcst2  percen,fpooest 2  percet,h'-                                     pors  4  rdcen
cre    aadncdfofie  als   OI  1070b l:nod1979 data,                                            of, hhoueebpoldia   ..
OPALTO                                                                                    coonon Tagofy15 4otnblie. Lnp
Life    li: -nors e   tintI (ror I-cernoonorofyar  ofhc-- Af   outhgTefolnn   etmts  r                                              .ayaprnntessueec   oerfloi
bar o-f peopl   (it rn,sderl   lbrunoheaca   oof                                                    fodhr
of   hoirepeoto    _oootoa.   os    Irnt rr  u-uli,e__scs  of the cu tr. Ir.nlaa   s .                                                              todfo.te.ua
foonnto o  acoopcscloCae  Ocit sre- c  0  seaefoohuoaoh                                     level nitd adjutmn,thto  hihercos                            h,lotgh  urbo  fre
reoso iheuco -acol  i btlyt   .    .tj nlluol.poe tcceocrafhhoebodndraril.-Pacotf-                                     natochosdunlbeensin
TanIlo' aoatao ooeun.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~= ' 
I  estnun   ty  n fata-bor - erteo0  the use       )~ oOtyrCisP  ond  sin-                                               fEcemnic dly cte_ edPr__arIconOdoroe
lap toet1A`l illI.a...t''.    tl   It                                                           7     f""IId~n:PlYd,.   .iors.                   t-iert
PooelncrPcica    ouoPod.ie   yona   f  rctlgrpn
ctaoeousiftndfrn-os..ciechoo-acoitsratylafad
ycyulerlc   oernusig ree id      Pop. atioc i  oN e   yooe  ofP Porbect90i170c l17dogt..L
ealeodfmeleradatanrao,  pocrial vrse, soasaeran   noses



26 -                                                  ANNEX I
- 26 -                                                Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US5365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                    Annual growth rate (%)
(million USS at                               (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                     Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                              1979            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979         1980   1981   1982   1983    1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a          49,211            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.8    4.9          7.1     7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                      14,678            0.0    4.7      1.3    5.2      2.2    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                         16,003            5.6   11.1    14.2      5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                         18.531           10.1     5.9   12.0      8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                        34,686            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    5.8   12.4    8.7    7.8    8.1    7.6    6.8
Gross investment                   11,103           14.6      6.0   16.0    15.0    5.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Exports of GNFS                    14,788           -9.7    12.5   22.4    0.1        8.9   -2.8    5.6    8.7    9.1    0.0    2.1
Imports of GNFS                    11,366            7.9    8.1   22.2    15.6   10.6  10.1          13.1   14.6   15.4    2.6    5.6
Gross national savings             12,400          -19.7    12.0   33.3   -2.1   43.3    19.3    7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                             166    190    214       232     309    368    423    473    519    569    621
Exchange rate                                        415    415    415       442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                            Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /b                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990           1960-70      1970-75     1975-80      1980-85     1985-90
Gross domestic product         100     100    100    100       100     100         3.9           8.4          6.9         7.3         8.2
Agriculture                   54     47      32      29      24       19         2.7           4.1         3.4          3.5         3.5
Industry                     14      18      34      33      36      41          5.2          12.0         9.1         9.0         11.2
Services                     32      35      35      38      40      40          4.8           9.7         8.4          8.5         8.0
Consumption                  91      89      79      74      76      77          4.1           8.4         8.3          7.7         8.7
Gross investment               8     14      20      24      29      31          4.8          18.3        10.8         12.0        10.0
Exports of GNFS               13     13      23      33      29      23          3.6           9.2         8.7         5.3          3.3
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -30    -34    -32               3.2         22.1         14.0        10.0          6.8
Gross national savings        8       9      17      24      25      22          6.1         23.1         19.3         9.5          5.9
As % of GDP
1960            1970            1975           1979
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                                             11.7            10.1            10.5            20.6
Current expenditures                                                         14.0             8.4             9.3            12.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                   -2.3            +1.6            +7.1            +8.1
Capital expenditure                                                           n.a.            5.0            10.7            12.4
Foreign financing                                                             0.2             3.5             3.7             4.3
1960-70          1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER IhDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                 4.5              7.6                  6.3              7.7              8.1
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                      2.4              5.1                  3.9              5.3              5.7
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                  2.9             16.0                 15.0             11.0             10.7
ICOR                                                       2.2              2.2                 3.4              3.5              3.7
Marginal savings rate                                      0.30             0.48                 0.68             0.36             0.24
Import elasticity                                          1.2              2.8                 0.7               1.4             0.8
/a  At market prices.
/b  Projected years at constant prices.  Owing to favorable terms of trade developments the resource gap's share of GDP at
current prices is significantly less than at constant prices.
/c  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



ANNEX I
-27-                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
Population     :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  llSS365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions USS at current prices)
Actual                                       Projected
Indicator                        1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
Exports of goods and services             7,425   9,384  11,056  11,650  17,797  23,320  27,624  33,600  40,645  49,391  79,726
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.           7,283   9,213  10,861  11,353  17,488  22,414  26,375  31,967  38,555  46,430  75,623
Imports of goods and services            -8,279 -10,186 -11,746 -12,785 -15,813 -20,407 -24,862 -30,398 -37,365 -46,967 -88,148
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.         -7,362  -8,807 -10,150 -10,907 -13,579 -17,569 -21,769 -27,028 -33,573 -42,230 -79,790
Net transfers                                75       61      66       46       52      76      100      50       50       50      50
Cuirrent account balance                   -779    -741    -624  -1,109   2,046   2,989   2,862   3,252   3,329   2,473  -8,372
Private direct investment                   454      287     285      271      217     170      170     200      250     300      500
MLT Loans (net) lb                        1,800   1,895   1,131       660      604   1,768   1,788   1,857   1,579   1,273   3,316
Official - source (net)                   514     836      752      771     515   1,128   1,644   1,949   1,912   1,646         947
Private  - source (net)                 1,287   1,059      379    -110       89      640      144     -92    -333    -373   2,391
Other capital                            -1,839    -442    -140       888  -1,075  -2,417  -2,204  -1,511  -1,267    -738   1,368
Change in reserves                          364  -1,001    -651    -708  -1,690  -2,510  -2,616  -3,798  -3,892  -3,308   3,188
Net official reserves                       556   1,557   2,208   2,916   4,606   7,116   9,732  13,530  17,422  23,981  25,991
Reserves as months imports                  0.8      1.8     2.3      2.7      3.5     4.2      4.7     5.3      5.6     6.1      3.5
Memorandum Items
Net exports of goods and
services of the oil sector           3,138   3,710   4,445   4,010   6,974  10,577  12,295  12,466  16,523  20,481  27,029
Net foreign assets of the
banking system                         556   1,557   2,623   3,372   6,906  11,078  15,900  21,297  26,489  35,209  35,885
Total reserves /c as months imports    0.8        1.8      2.7      3.2     5.2      6.5     7.7      8.4      8.5     9.0      4.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                    2,152   2,332   1,956   1,641   1,945   2758
Concessional Loans                        503     488      442      494     445      968
DAC                                    378      365      354     429      405      830
OPEC                                     -        -       27       29       5       22
IDA                                    107       99       49      29       30       56
Other                                    18      23       12        6       6       59
Nonconcessional Loans                  1,649   1,844   1,514   1,148   1,501   1,790
Official export credits                  15     267      221     305       88      111
IBRD                                    57      157      191     168      199      355
Other multilateral                        3      11       16       12      46      100
Private - source                     1,574   1,409   1,086       663   1,168   1,223
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed Id    8,014  10,018  11,671  13,128  13,326  15,040
Official - source                  5,006   5,913   7,077   8,434   8,512   9,657
Private  - source                  3,008   4,105   4,594   4,694   4,814   5,383
Undisbursed debt                     3,703   4,533   4,481   5,832   7,514   8,029
Debt Service
Total service payments                 517      775   1,266   1,463   2,107   1,804
Interest                             165      318     441      485      772     815
Payments as % exports of goods
& services /e                        7.0      8.0    11.5    12.6    11.8       7.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(x)                                    8.3      7.5     6.3      7.3      6.6     8.8
Official - source                      6.5      7.0      5.5     4.7      4.9      5.5
Private  - source                      9.3      8.1      8.6    10.8      8.9    13.5
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                               12.7    14.9    20.5    21.2    19.9    18.1
Official - source                     21.3    20.2    23.9    30.1    25.7    23.5
Private  - source                      8.1      8.3    10.4      9.3    11.4    10.3
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1979
Matturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                      30.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                     64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                     4.0
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal ypar basis.
lb  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of denosit money banks in addition to official reserves.
/d  At end of period.
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and thirty Credits fully disbursed            357.0   453.30        -
300     1972   Population                                         13.20        0.45
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50        3.03
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.50        8.56
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00        3.97
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50        0.51
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.00        9.16
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project               40.00        9.93
827     1978   Rural Credit                                       30.00       16.67
869     1979   Polytechnic                                        49.00       45.55
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00        8.96
919     1979   Transmigration II                                  67.00       49.72
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00       11.29
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                    45.00       42.15
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               45.00       41.25
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  42.00       41.48
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                1.47
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00               14.79
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                5.99
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                5.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00               36.99
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.00               10.94
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.00               16.30
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Extension PURSI IV    70.00                    0.03
1259     1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                5.08
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                3.91
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00               10.14
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                    8.17
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                8.83
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00               11.40
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00                1.06



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                              116.00             37.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                     13.00              8.52
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.00             12.57
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.00             41.49
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.00             12.26
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPIND0 III)  40.00                 1.26
1472    1977   Second Population                         24.50             14.83
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                      15.00              8.12
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.00             37.36
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00             52.35
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.00            123.60
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.00             22.82
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.00             59.78
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                   54.00             39.45
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.00             44.11
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.00             37.74
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                            130.00            107.48
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.00             26.48
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.00            139.74
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                       36.00             34.29
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III         99.00             83.96
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116.00            111.78
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV          42.00             39.37
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                 35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                  35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00            240.22
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project             46.00             45.21
1904    1981   University Development Project            45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                      250.00            250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                 22.00             22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project          43.00             43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V         161.00            161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00               106.00
2n49    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1               85.00             85.00
/1  Not yet effective



- 30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits             3,814.00  931.80
less cancellations                           -23.13   -1.65
Total                                        3,790.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                     -92.24   -2.89
Total now outstanding                        3,698.63  927.26
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21     -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            3,697.60  927.26
Total undisbursed                            2,457.84  327.09   2,784.93
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                               Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8       3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5       2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7       6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3       2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                           114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                74.2       3.4       77.6
Total held by IFC                                  40.6      14.3       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   53.1          0.9       54.0



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATIJS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                               6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                           9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)                13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                      14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                   15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                         16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                                18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                     21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                          21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                              22
Nutrition (1373)                                                             23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                       24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                              24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                      25
Ports (1337)                                                                 26
Tourism (479)                                                                  26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                       26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                   28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiuix
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



- 34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI's decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



- 35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



- 36 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date:  November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOIs skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to:  (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor's and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared.  These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation.  It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



ANNEX II
- 40 -                    Page 13 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



- 41 -                        ANNEX II
Page 14 of 28 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Mlillion Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



- 42 -                      ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule.  The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978.
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981, Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts.  Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



44                          ANNEX II
Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards system is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981. All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious. Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule. Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



-46 -                              ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40x) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by Mlarch 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



- 47 -                      ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI s budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds. The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI. Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



-48                        ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



49 -ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



- 50 -                      ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, .1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



- 51-                        ANNEX II
Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451  Fourth Technical Assistance:  $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date:  August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government-s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



- 53 -                  ANNEX II
Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies which are
underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to identify
components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
- 54 -                Page 27 of 28 pages
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for s;mall carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about
1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in
Surabaya have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



- 55 -                     ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



- 56 -                                 ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  2-1/2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  GOI with consultant assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:          1979
(d) First Bank mission to identify
the project:                          January 1979
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                              February 1980
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations: November 25, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           April 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
GOI would:
(a) follow agreed screening and evaluation procedures for each
rural road improvement program to be included in the project
(para. 48);
(b) provide additional qualified staff consistent with a manpower plan
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; appoint by April 1, 1982,
the required number of on-site project managers and assistant
managers; and prepare by April 1, 1983, a long-term manpower plan,
including permanent staff positions, for the participating DPUKs
(para. 51);
(c) appoint consultants for technical support by April 1, 1982; second
about 20 experienced staff by April 1, 1982, to provide technical
support to participating DPUKs; and second about 10 experienced
staff by July 1, 1981, to assist in preparation of additional DPUK
programs (para. 51);



- 57 -                                  ANNEX III
page 2
(d) enroll DPUK and project-related staff from the selected
kabupatens, who have been identified as requiring further
training, in the existing DGH training courses by not later
than July 1, 1982, and enroll BAPPEDA II staff from the
selected kabupatens in management and planning courses in
the Local Government Training Project (para. 53); and
(e) submit by April 1, 1982, and each January 31 of subsequent
years for Bank review and approval the unit costs to be used
in the coming GOI fiscal year in calculating disbursement
against civil works (para. 61).






160-    )                    TI4AIANO             ~                  PHILIPPINES
thoio0/                                   55UN;AN'   -th Chio Se
( wTew0geoA t_                                                                                    f                 ifit  C-
>     05tSIA     
ACEh                                                              A    FA         A                     S
j < + < \  O KUALA LUMPUR                                SOJU 
4SWA >             5 k                           MA L A Y S I A          '        5ecr
~~)_ ,~~rt    4 ASA    ,A , N\  
0n0&t,4i    1   -        r< zo                    qf> ''                                    7GPOrE
-  r  >,;x ,, ;- - > ~          )     tPEKANBARU                  X
-00
G)  f- * -    k                                                 /      4     oeTokI                -&
-  - KBLJPTEN(ISTRCTflBOUNA94E
-- ~  - NTERATINALBOONA PADA-
                 TE                      AL;;+a KILMETER
f  t                             P              \,    r      k       S      /ki,,s r/r A'WNG J
n   ~         , c/                                                                       / a' nuX>n
of O$. PA-ANGIOd 1s.4.o                   , o        1
booN,n.O .00..., Mo,.,~o   ,     4 o   WSUMA  R Af AG
INDONESIA                                                                                    P, +SUW-lihauaun
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                           Maenm--f/
.SUMATRA  EGILwJJ
pRO,IECT PROVINCE5 S' /)vg_'. 
NATIONAL HpOhAY5                                       0tura.01  P 
PROVINCIAL WilGHWVAYS                                               M n            )
R   AILWAYS                         S,10,d Pnmiec CR 260 iND                     ;                       >
~~ p           ~~PFIEVIOUS PROECT C;ON:STRUCTION   Fs.rt Progrst Lt4 1Z#i INt)O2                                       aK.tab
R- IVERS                            Fifth Proict LN l69rd IND                   Rintuh a        J\              Z 
_t;                  --   KASUPATENtDISTRICT), SOUNDAPIES        .                          .NZ       ,DGt
- -PROVINCIAL 8OLNDARIES  '.Kl 
. ~~~~~~INTEPhNWTtONAL EDL!NDARIES r  
KILOETfERS                     
rJ      -.                                                               . 7CO- 7C0  30C  rhschpH~2ffir#ci af /.4.r fer i
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d    W.                                             8-    I,   i~f~trlsr.rfnre>n4r
] E .          r1                        S             _Of**alrng,#vurffbWG*ilkfkX 






IBRD 15808
SOUTH CHiNA SEA          P71855m                Th,,onp.*-   b05 *9  l                                                                                                                                      JUNE 1981
A\As   YSIA9              1         I7C wse,scOCEAN  Nnel'o.oAFHJA                                                                                                       INDONESIA
800050                                                                                                                                                RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wo,Id Bank oW In nffNAI.R. ally         ~WESTJAVA
\   j       VA IA                                A V>                                                                                                                     PROJECT PROVINCES
FL ORES          d g   '                                                                                                                             PREVIOUS PROJECT CONSTRUCTION F{,fl PrO1ft LN 1696 IN
MAP AREA             72"LC'EiW rOIL  86N
INDIAf CEAN    A4SR                                                                                                                                                       PR EVIOUS JAKARTA - CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
-   CONSTStUCTION
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
JI~-+---- AARAILWAYS
J   A   V   A  F  A   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~.                         KABUPATEN BONUNARtIES
--PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
o- ' ._ '=   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES           6
70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
t%4~~~IL E644K                                                                        >AK2
>5,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.U                                                          ;S;  jW  DANGRA4tTi   
MILES  11101 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~AI
1070                                    IOR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TI
;~~~~ IV  7>.u.g A N  0   EA ttfp|g' ; X
4     en ;ti::   rp u>s  
KILOETER                   6p  8;0- - i'    S  : 5  R\
MIE r                                                                                                                                                              kw"?.W, gi;"'<\    -K   ;0  .0';'        pej-iuls gsft8r4;< ,j:<  >   / ;9 ;- 



