RESTRICTED
Report No. TON: Ap-7
Report No. 6772-TON
This Report has been prepared for
ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT  BANK                      the exclusive use of the Bank.
A P P R A I SA L
OF THE
THIRD MULTIPROJECT
AND
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
IN
TONGA
May 1986



CURRENCY E UIVALENTS
(As of 30 April 1986)
Currency Unit         X        Pa'anga (T$) - 100 Seneti
T$1.00                o        US$0.7415
US$1.00                        T$1.3486
The Pa'anga is tied to the value of the Australian dollar.
For the purposes of calculation in this Report, an exchange rate of
T$1.0 - US$0.71 has been used which was the rate prevailing at the
time of the appraisal mission's visit.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB      -           Australian Development Assistance Bureau
BOT       -           Bank of Tonga
CFTC      -           Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperati.-a
CPD       -           Central Planning Department
DP4       -           Fourth Five-Year Development Plan
DP5       -           Fifth Five-Year Development Plan
EEC       -           European Economic Community
FAO       -           Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP       -           Gross Domestic Product
HF        -           High Frequency
HWD       -           Harbours and Wharves Department (within MOF)
ILO       -           International Labor Organization
1MO       -           International Maritime Organization
IPU       -           Industrial Promotion Unit
JICA      -           Japanese International Cooperation Agency
NLCI      -           Ministry of Labour, Commerce & Industries
MOF       -           Ministry of Finance
MOW       -           Ministry of Works
PCC       -           Project Coordination Committee
RDF       -           Rural Development Fund
RDU       -           Rural Development Unit
SIC       -           Small Industries Centre
SPARTECA  -           South Pacific Regional Trade and
Economic Cooperation Agreement
SPF       -           Small Project Fund
TDB       -           Tonga Development Bank
TTC       -           Tonga Telecommunications Commission
TTD       -           Telegraphs and Telephones Department
UNDAT     -           lnited Nations Development Advisory Team
UNDP      -           United Nations Development Programme
VHF       -           Very High Frequency
NOTES
In this Report, $ refers to US dollars.
The fiCcal year of thc Government ends on 30 June, and that
of the Tonga Development Bank on 31 December.



PROJECT FOCUS, DESI.N AND RATIONALE
Tongs's main natural resources are agriculture, forestry and
fisheries. The Government is attempting to develop these resoarces
through selective investment in infrastructure and provisien of
incentives to encourage diversification of agriculture and develoment
of manufacturing.   The  economic  development  of  the  country  is,
however, constrained by its location and its physical and demographic
characteristics:   (i) it is far from the centacs of world trade and
industry; (ii) its land area is fragmented by its archipelagic
configuration; (ili) the population is dispersed; &nd (lv) the mall
size of the domestic market -- which is scattered -- makes it
difficult to attain economits of scale. The preparation of the Fifth
Five-Year Development Plan (DP5), covering the period FY1985/86 to FT
1989/90, has been delaye4 and it has not yet been finalized. However,
the Plan is expected to emphasize the same areas as the previous plan
by giving the highest priority to agriculture and flsheries followed
by industry, transport and communications and  social  services.   An
important objective of the Plan Is to promote balanced regional
development by encouraging development of islands outside the main
island of Tongatapu.
In  line with  the  above  obJectives,  the  Government has
identified a number of small, high-priority projects in the Industrial
and transport and coummnications sectors and has requested Bank
assistance to support these projects; in addition, the Government has
requested a line of credit for Tonga Davelopment Bank to support
general development of the economy. The mall projects have all been
selected to support development of industry, regional development and
development of agriculture; the lina of credit will similarly support
development of industry and agriculture. In view of the asmll size of
the individual projects, the multiproject lending modality is
considered to be the most suitable method of preparing and
implomenting these projects. To further simplify processing of the
loan, the multiprojeet loan (the Multiproject) and the line of credit
to Tonga Development Bank (the Line of Credit), have been combined
into one set of loan documents (the Project).
The Multiproject covers:   (i) expansion of the existing
Small Industries Centre (SIC) on the main island of Tongatapu; (il)
establishment of a new SIC on the northern island group of Vava'u to
cater mainly to small-scale service Industries w?iich serve the local
market, (iii) improvement of Nafanue Harbour on 'Eu Island; (iv)
contructlon of about 20 km of agricultural access roads on  'Zus
Island; (v) upgrading telecomunications services between the capital
city of Nuku'alofa and 'Rua Islands together with provision of local
telephone services on the Island; and (vi) Improvement of about 30 km
of rural roads on the main Island of Tongatapu. The Project also
includes   technical  assistance   for:   (i)  undertaking   detailed
preparation of the subprojects to be financed under the Multiprojsct;
(il) providing Institutional strengthening to selected Implementing
Agencies; (ill) providing appropriate expertise to advise the
Governmnt on review of interest rate policies; and (iv) contributing
to the further institution building of Tongs Development Bank.



The total cost of the Multiproject Is estimated at $2.52
million, of which the foreign exchange cost is estimted at $2.00
millio and the local currency cost at $0.S2 million equivalent. It
is proposed that the Bank provide a isan of $2.0 million equivalent
from the Special Funds resources - representing about 79 per cent of
the total cost of the Multiproject - to finance all of the foreign
exchange costs, Including the service charge on the Bank loan during
construction, and to provide an additional loan of $1.0 million
equivalent from the Special Funds resources for the Line of Credit
which the Government will re-lend to Tonga Development Bank for
onlending to subprojects that meat appropriate development criteria.
The Executing Agency for the Multiproject will be the
MinLotry of Finance and the Secretary for Finance will serve as
Project Coordinator for the Multiproject. The Project Coordinator
will coordinate the preparation and presentation of the appraisal
reports for ach of the subprojects to be financed under the
Multiproject and will supervise the channelling of funds to the
various Implementing Agencies which will be responsible for the
implemanattion and execution of the Individual subprojects.
The facilities to be financed under the Multiproject will
encourage expansion of the industrial sector, support development of
Eua Island (particularly of the agricultural sector) and will 4nprove
access to the rural areas of Tongatapu. Provision has also been made
in the Terms of Reference for consultants to ensure that adequate
environmental protection measures are included In the design and
implementation of each subproject. The subprojects are not expected
to adversely affect women, and the Small Industries Centres
subprojects will increase female employmnt.
The major risk in the Multiproject is that implementation of
subprojects may be delayed. To minimize this risk, the Goverment has
initiated action to repossess the site required for establishment of
the SIC on Vava'u, and technical assistance is being provided to
assist the various Implementing Agencies in preparing the subproject
appraisal reports and in providing construction supervision for
improvement of Nafanua Harbour.



(i)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa8e
Map - Location of Project Facilities                    (i'i)
Proposed Agricultural Access Roads,
'Eua Island                                   (iv)
Proposed Five-Year Road Improvement Prooram,
Tongatapu Island                               (v)
I.        INTRODUCTION                                               1
II.       BACKGROUND                                                 2
A.   General                                               2
B.   Rural and Regional Development                        3
C.   Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries                   3
D.   Industry                                              5
E.   Transport and Communications                          6
F.   Tourism                                              11
G.   Finance                                              11
H.   Construction and Consulting Industry                 12
I.  Need for Further Investment                           13
PART A:  THE MULTIPROJECT WAN                 17
III.      THE PROPOSED MULTIPROJECT                                 17
A.   Objectives and Scope                                 17
B.   Description of Subprojects                           18
C.   Cost Estimates                                       20
D.   Financing Plan                                       23
1V.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                    24
A.   Executing Agency and Project Coordination            24
B.   Implementing Agencies                                25
C.   Procurement                                          27
D.   Design, Construction Supervision and
Other Consulting Services                           29
E.   Implewentation Status of Previous Bank Projects    30
F.   Implementation Schedule                              31
G.  Land Acquisition                                      31
H.  Operation and Maintenance                             32
I.   Reports, Accounts and Audit                         33
J.   Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation           33
K.   Considerations Concerning the Environment
and Women                                           34
L.   Project Administration                              34
V.        TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                      35
VI.       JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS                                37
A.  General                                               37
B.   Financial/Economic Evaluation                        37
C.   Risks                                                38



(ii) 
PART B: THE LINE OF CREDIT TO
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK                        39
VII.      THE PROPOSED LINE OF CREDIT                              39
A.   Objective and Scope                                 33
B.   Tha Proposed Loan                                   39
C.   The Proposed Technical Assistance                   42
D.   Benefits and Risks                                  44
VIII.     THE EXECUTING AGENCY                                     45
A.   Organization and Management                         45
1.  History, Legal Framework, Share Capital
and Relationship with the Government          45
2. Board of Directors, Organixation
and Management                                45
3.  Staff and Training                             47
B.   Operations                                          48
1.  Activities                                     48
2.   Policies                                      49
3.   Procedures                                    49
4.   Operational Performance                       50
5.   Projected Operational Performance             52
C.   Accounting, Audit and Financial Controls            52
D.  Financial Performance                                54
1.  Interest Rate Structure                        54
2.  Past and Current Perfonmance                   54
3.   Portfolio Management                          56
4.   Projected Financial Performance
and Resource Position                          58
E.   Implementation of Previous Bank Loans
and Technical Assistance                            60
IX.      CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                           63
APPENDIXES                                               66



Niaa&o                                    1140
160                                                                    Njua Toputep,.                     160
ftm"|                                         LOCATION OF PROJECT FACILITIES
SboIn od b  %     G ~ROWm
N                                              4
V_   fi;)                                              Xoeols  s 
I|    d    ! Ps                 O0          50        100
Hiw zaw                                                 I"
Klometors
Itr      tet      Ism     Ilil     '6pt
LOCATION MAP
180                                                                   ?Ponualel                           180
Tohu
VAVAU G  GROUP          Vaau
Hungo        PanI/moiu
Late  NoapWu          ttape
Wfoontan
KW~               Hoano
Totua                    Foa
IAVAPAI GRROUP             LJ(utea
Nomuba      Lim
Falcon   Nomuete  NoepWu             ttap
Ldalona
Hanga Tonga   Kelefe"efa
lunHgaaHaapaa
Aho. MuU,w
Tongatapu
TON HGATAPU GROUP                   L
l""ea     Kore
Tonteteau        -e                  _
[220                                                                                                     -22
Ago  1760                                             1740
1                             2A-MM-e _-



(Iv)
PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL ACCESS ROADS
'EUA ISLAND
rFouma
o        1       2        3        4       /
KtlonuiterS                  (
Natanua Harbour
Sno~~nua
TufuvAiU
_lua Settlnemnt
Kten ni                   i
lorOt.ry Road
(Apprormate Position)
LEGEND;
AgrIculturdi Road
------  Construction 3rd Multi
Prolect Loan
Settiements           HaWlu     
a...|j Sultable tor food ando cash crop
|Suitabe for coconut



I 75dZOW                                                                                                                                     175001W
PROPOSED FIVE YEAR ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRMME
TONGATAPU ISLAND
PA TATA It.                                                                                                 Q Ate 1l.
0
/.|*a*afu~~~~                   °         S       ?  II{      I' .I C I r J C'        0 U- f: . X
/rtatau                    0                                              I c        0 C E 1 N
01d11 !Po9oa                                                                                      ° Oneotl s..
NUkUnuku                                                                      Ong*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M$uau .
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~QN Sv*4itd                           Vn:ue Talaft
evlca=tm_olo >(3   
LEGEND: /f%  { 
'oad                                                                               uA  f
_ >  Roods tontollvely propO#ed for funding                                       
under the 3rd Muni Project Lown\ tArr   
.   To First Cost (P°riame) S4W                                 ( \   / tFuso   1   2                                                    .0
..., ..To Second Coat (Slurry) S-48                     \\0                                                     1  2  3  4 s ^
Kilorreters
21015'S                                                                                                                                                      21*15-5
S t0 1: 7' 8       P ,t t' } 1*' 1 ('      ° t) V    't A\ -N/
175020-W                                                                                                                                    vW500i'w



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Tonga has requested Bank assistance to
finance a package of small projects of high priority and to provide a
line of credit to Tonga Development Bank (TDB). These small projects,
which are to be financed as subprojects under the Multiproject Loan,
include expansion of an establi3hed Small Industries Centre (SIC),
establishment of a new SIC, improvement of harbor facilities,
construction of agricultural access roads, upgrading telecommunications
facilities, and improvement of rural roads. The Government's request for
a Multiproject and Development Bank loan (the Project) Is Igns1.stent
with the Bank's approach to operations in the South Pacific.-
2.         The Project was formulated during the visit of a Fact-Finding
mission to Tonga fielded by the Bank's South Pacific Regional Office
(SPRO) in June 1985. Two appraisal missions finalized the Project;
the first, comprising M. Davey (Financial Analyst, Mission Leader), R.
E. Bares (Senior Counsel)  and  J.  Z.  Mejia  (Senior Assistant)
visited Tonga from 13 to 29 January to appraise the line of credit for
TDB; the second, comprising Ian G. Heggie (Senior Sector Planning
Specialist, Mission Leader), R. E. Bares (Senior Counsel), H.
J. Youn (Senior Economist) and M. G. Hunter (Staff Consultant)
visited Tonga from 27 January to 13 February 1986 to appraise the
Multiproject.   This Report contains the findings of both Missions;
the  findings  are based on discussions in the   field  with   the
Government and non-Government agencies concerned, on a review of all
relevant documents and, in the case of the Multiproject, on a visit to
all subproject sites. Chapters I and II are common to both parts of
the loan; Part A (Chapters III to VI) describes the Multiproject,
while Part B (Chapters VII and VIII) describes the line of credit to
TDB. The final Chapter on Conclusions and Recommendations is common
to both parts of the Project.
1/  Doc.  R157-78,  A Review of Bank Operations in the South Pacific
Developing Member Countries, dated 14 December 1978; Doc. R39-83,
Revision 1, A Review of Bank Operations in the South Pacific
Developing Member Countries, dated 19 October 1983; and Doc. Sec
M93-83, Addendum 1, South Pacific Regional Office, dated 28
December 1983.



2
11. BACKGROUND
A.   General
3.        The Kingdom of Tonga, with a total land area of about 750 sq
km, comprises 171 islands, of which 37 are Inhabited. The 1'ulk of the
population lives in three maln Island groups - Tongatapu, Vava'u and
Ha'apai which are scattered over roughly 360,000 sq km of territorial
sea.  The total population of Tonga is about 96,500 and has been
growing at 0.9 per cent a year; 66,000 people live on the main
Tongatapu group;  9,000 live on the scattered arebipelagic Ha'apai
group; and 15,000 live on the northerly Tongan group of Vava'u. The
remaindey, live on 'Eua Island (4,000) and on the Niuas group
(2,500).-   The population is predominantly rural; only 33 per cent of
the population is classified as urban.
4i.       Tonga  is  predominantly  an  agricultural  country  with  a
large subsistence sector and is economically dependent on agricultural
exports: coconut, coconut products, bananas and vanilla are major
sources of cash income and foreign exchange earnings. The country's
forest resources are largely undeveloped and timber and wood products
are  lmported  to  meet  local  needs.  The  fishing  industry  is
underdeveloped -- concentrating on reef fishaing -- and is geared to
subsistence needs. Efforts have been made to diversify the economy by
encouraging establishment of secondary industries, by an industrial
development incentives policy and by establishment of small industries
centers.   New  industrial  opportunitie.  are  also  opening  up  in
Industries such as vanilla processing and the milling of senile
coconut trees for structural timber.
5.        The economic development of Tonga is constrained by its
location, and its physical and demographic characteristics: (i) it is
far from the centers of world trade and industry; (ii) its land area
is fragmented by its archipelagic configuration; (i) the population
is dispersed; and (iv) the small size of the domestic market  -
which is scattered -- makes it difficult to attain economies of scale.
6.         The preparation of the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan
(DP5), covering the period FY1985/86 to FY1989/90, has been delayed.
However, the Plan is expected to continue with the same emphasis as
the previous plan by giving the highest priority to agriculture and
fisheries followed by transport and communications, and social
services.  An important objective of the Plan is to promote balanced
regional development by encouraging development of islands outside
the   main   island  of  Tongatapu  which  is  already  reasonably
well-developed.   Most development expenditure  is financed through
external  aid.   New  Zealand  and  Australia  are  major  sources  of
bilateral aid, with the Federal Republic of Germany assuming
increasing importance.   The major multilateral aid sources are the
European Economic Community (EEC) and the Bank. Tonga has recently
become a member of the World Bank and funds from this source may
become important in future.
I/   As recorded in the 1984 Mini-census.



3
B. Rural and Regional Development
7.        The Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (DP4), FY1980/81 to
FY1984/85, marked the beginning of the Government's active involvement
in rural and  regional  development.   The  aim of the Government's
efforts is to more actively involve the outer island regions and rural
areas outside Tongatapu in the development process by integrating and
coordinating  the  separate  development  efforts  of   all  gov'r7ment
departments.   To  this  end,  a Rural Development  Unit  (RDU)-  was
established within the Central Planning Department to manage and
administer all rural and regional development activities.  The RDU
supports its programs through a Rural Development Fund (RDF) and a
Small  Project  Fund  (SPF).   RDF assistance is for projects which
directly generate income, but are of an innovative, high-risk nature;
SPF assistance  Is  for proje'ets of a social nature  which  meet
community needs, but do not generate income   (e.g., village water
supply schemes, agricultural roads, etc.). Between June 1979 and the
end of 1985, 312 proqcts valued at $1.31 million received assistance
under these schemes.-
8.         The Government's regional development program  initially
concentrated on Vava'u, and a number of the projects identified as
part of this inis?l effort were funded under the Bank's second
Multiproject Loan.-   In December 1981 a Regional Planning Workshop
was held on 'Eua Island and the Central Planning Department followed
this up by preparing an Integrated Regional Development Program for
'E.ua Island. Further assistance was provided in 1982 when the United
Nations Development Advisory Team (ITNDAT) conducted a study of
Island and prepared a report entitled "Development of 'Eua Island-
which recommended a framework for developing agriculture. Similar
Regional Development Programs have been prepared for Ha'apai, Vava'u
and the Niuas.
C.   Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
9.        Agriculture, forestry and fisheries accounted for 42.0 per
cent of GDP in 1985; agriculture accounted for 33.0 per cent, forestry
for 1.7 per cent, and fisheries for 7.3 per cent. The sector grew at
a real rate of 11.4 per cent per annum between FY1974/75 and
FY1983/84,  with  the   fisheries  subsector  growing  faster  than
agriculture and forestry. The rapid growth of fisheries appears to be
attributable to the high level of investment in this subsector.
I/  Established with support from ILO and UNDP.
2/   About  $0.39  million  was made available through RDF and $0.92
million through SPF.
3/   Multiproject II, Loan 540-TON(SF)p approved in 1Iovember 1981. The
Project included:  (i) vanilla development;  (ii) a tourist and
handicraft center; (Wii) health centers; (iv) road construction;
and (v) fish marketing, processing and storage.
4/   Published In 1983.



4
10.        The    Tongan    economy    is    heavily    dependent   on
subsistence agriculture; it is estimated that about 70 per cent of the
population depends primarily on it for its livelihood. The country's
fertile  soils  and   conducive   climate   offer   potential   for
substantially increasing agricultural output, Approximately 90 per
cent of the value of total crop production (fruit and vegetables) is
consumed locally while the remainder is exported. Exports dropped
sharply in FY1982/83 as a result of the cyclone in March 1982 which
was followed by the worst drought in Tonga in over 40 years.  The
export of coconut and coconut products was badly affected and a large
number of trees were damaged or blown down. In spite of this, there
has been encouraging progress in agricultural diversification with the
production  and  export  of  vanilla,  which  is intercropped with
coconut, and the production and export of vegetables assuming
increasing  importance.    A   Coconut  Replanting  Scheme  is  being
prepart? to renew senile palms and a Banana Export Revitalization
Scheme- has been commenced to, inter alsa, remedy the damage done by
the 1982 cyclone.   The reforms to land leasing contained in the
FY1983/84 Budget will also remove an important constraint to
comercial agricultural development:  a person can now leas/ up to ten
rural tax allotments on 20-year leases at negotiated rents.-
I1.        The  forestry  industry  is  still  small  and  relatively
undeveloped;   the  Government's   long-term   aim   is   to   achieve
self-sufficiency  in  sawn  timber.   Present  timber  production  is
insuffici¶t for domestic needs and substantial imports are
required.- The only milling of native hardwoods occurs on 'Eua
Island; unexploited reserves exist in Ha'apai and Vava'u. Trial tree
planting is being carried out on 'Eua Island and initial results are
promising. It has been estimat2d that 600,000 senile coconut palms,
capable of producing 100,000 cubic meters of sawn timber., were
available for milling during DP4.  The timber from these trees is
being used for construction purposes and it is hoped that other
uses -- including production of joinery items -- will develop in due
course.
12.       Fisheries  contributed  between 4 and 5 per cent of GDP
until FY1978/79; this then rose to about 11 per cent where it has
remained  ever  since.    Although  Tongs  has  substantial  fishery
resources, it is not self-sufficient, and imports of tinned fish and
fish products amounted to $620,000 in 1982. There are three maln
fishery areas: the inner reef area, the outer reef and deep water
slopes, and the deep sea area. About 80 per cent of the present catch
(roughly 1,200 tons per annum) is caught in the inner reef area, and
this could be increased by about 1,000 tons per apum. In the outer
reef and deep water slope areas, it is estimated-  that about 1,000
1/ The program is being supported under New Zealand bilateral aid in
an amount of $3.6 million over five years.
2/ No more than five allotments could proviously be held on 10-year
leases at a fixed annual rental of $8.00.
3/   Domestic sawn timber production in 1983 was about 1,500 cubic
meters; a further 6,000 cubic meters was imported.
4/ Estimated in an FAO/UNDP Marine Resources Development Report
prepared In FY1976/77.



5
tons of bottom fish could be cauglht each year, together with 2,000
tons of seasonal species like skipjack and yellowfin tuna.  The major
potential lfs in the deep sea area where the minimum potential catch
of albacore- and yellowfin tuna is estimated at 4,600 tons per annum;
in addition, the potential seasonal catch of skipjack is estimated to
be at least 10,000 tons per annum. There is thus good potential for
self-sufficiency in the fisheries sector and, in the longer term, for
developing  exports.   The  Government  operates  a  modern  long-line
fishing vessel (acquired in 1982) which is currently covering its
operating costs; the Government is also considering licensing foreign
fishing vessels to operate in Tonga's economic zone.  However, the
main thrust of Government policy is to develop an effective fleet of
small (9 to 12 meter) fishing vessels. This is being encouraged by
provision of a grant/loan scheme for construction of small fishing
vessels, establishment of fisheries demonstration projects, provision
of training to fishermen and improvement of fish handling, storage
and marketing facilities.
D.   IndustEy
13.       The industrial sector grew at a reel average annual rate of
over five per cent between FY1980/81 and FY1984/85 and, in FY1984/85
accounted tor about eight per cent of GDP. Despite Its relatively
modest contribution to GDP, the industrial sector has contributed
increasingly to employment, domestic savings and foreign exchange
earnings2/and has introduced new technology and helped diversify the
economy.-    The sector is predominantly  privately-owned;   public
involvement is largely confined to the Tonga Commodities Board and
the Oil Mills of Tonga Ltd.  A Small Industries Centre  (SIC) on
Tongatapu,   supported   by   the   Bank,  has  been  establishad  to
encourage development of small-scale industrial enterprises.- In
mid-1985, all available factory sheds and nursery units in the SIC
were fully occupied, and there were about 12 outstanding applications
for space that could not be satisfied. Only three of the remaining
serviced plots in the SIC are currently vacant. Total production from
the SIC during FY1984/85 amounted to about $1.25 million (of which
about $600,000 was exported) and it employed more than 330 people.
14.        The  establishment  of  the  SIC  was  supported  by  the
introduction in 1978 of an Industrial Development Incentives Act
which accorded high priority to the development of private industry.
This Act promoted investment by local firs and encouraged foreign
investment which would contribute to the import of capital,
technology, managerial know-how and would provide better access to
1/ A large pelagic tuna used for canning.
2/   In 1984 industrial enterprises (including agro-industry) employed
more than 1,000 persons and produced output valued at $9 million.
3/   The SIC was established with Bank assistance under Loan No.
335-TON(SF) approved in December 1977 and expanded under Loan No.
435-TON(SF) approved in December 1979 and Loan No. 540-TON(SF)
approved in November 1981. The SIC occupies a 20-acre site, but
only 12 acres have been developed. The local and foreign-owned
enterprises occupying the SIC are producing a variety of goods,
including textiles, paints, sporting goods, tubular furniture,
wooden toys, meta.. fabricated Items, etc.



6
overseas markets. Some of the major components of the Act were: (i)
five-year income tax holidays; (ii) two-year duty-free importation of
plant and equipment; (iII) reimbursement of duty paid on importod
raw materials or products re-exported after processing; and (iv)
repatriation of profits, capital and capital gains. The effectiveness
of the Industrial Development Incentives Act is currently being
reviewed by a consultant supported under technical assistance
provided by the Commonwealth Secretariat.
15.       Implementation of the Industrial Development Incentives Act
is handled by an Industrial Promotion Unit (IPU) within the Ministry
of Labour, Commerce and Industries (MLCI). The IPU fpnsists of an
Assistant Secretary, an Industrial Promotion Officer,- an Assistant
Industrial Promotion Officer and a Senior Executive Officer. The IPU
augments MLCI's general promotional efforts in helping to attract and
set up new industries and follows up projects already licensed under
the Industrial Development Incentives Act.  The IPU also provides
business counselling services, and helps to identify prospective new
industries and evaluate their suitability.   The IPU is adequately
staffed and fully competent to undertake these tasks. TDB provides
financial support to assist development of the industrial sector, and
the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement
(SPARTECA) also facilitates development of manufacturing industry by
offering various tariff preferences to Tongan goods in New Zealand and
Australia.
16.       The Government's major objectives for industrial development
are to: (i) accelerate industrial growth in order to raise output,
employment, foreign exchange earnings and to reduce dependence on
imports;  (ii) establish viable industries utilizing local resources
to maximize domestic value-added; (iii) promote complementary economic
activities essential to and supportive of local industry; and (iv)
ensure to the extent possible balanced regional development of
manufacturing, processing and assembly industries throughout the
country.   The  Government  is  favorably  disposed  towards  the
establishment of industry by foreign entrepreneurs, but joint ventures
are preferred.
E.   Transport & Communications
1.   Roads and Road Transport
17.       There are 332 km of formed roads in Tonga and over 1,400 km
of earth tracks; nearly 204 km of formed road are on Tongatapu, 83
km are on Vava'u, 31 km are on 'Eua Island, 10 km are on Ha'apai
and 4 km are on the Niuas. About 155 km of road are classed as main
roads which link villages and towns; of this, 52 km have a bitumen
surface,  while  the  remainder  have  a  crushed  coral  surface.   In
addition, there are 40 km of sealed secondary and town roads.  The
remaining roads generally link the main roads to groups of rural tax
allotments and are all unsealed secondary roads with cotal or earth
1/   The  current  incumbent  is  an  expatriate  supported  by  the
Commonwealth Secretariat.



7
surfaces. The number of registered vehicles at the end of 1983 was
roughly 3,000, and the vehicle fleet has been growing at an average
annual rate of about eight per cent since 1975; the vehicle fleet
included, among other things, about 450 cars, 340 motorcycles and
1,350 trucks and buses. Annual surveys of road traffic carried out by
the Ministry of Works (MOW) on Tongatapu suggest that traffic grew at
over 13 per cent per annum between 1979 and 1984.
18.        The Ministry ofjorks is responsible for the construction
and maintenance of roads.-   The main aims of the Government's road
development program are to:  (i) upgrade and maintain the existing
network of main roads at a suitable standard; (11) improve drainage
to arrest deterioration;  (iii)  improve  the extensive network of
agricultural  roads  which  link  groups  of  individual  rural  tax
allotments to the main road network; and (iv) support development of a
viable   and  competitive  road  transport  ixestry.   The   road
construction  program   is  financed  entirely-   through  external
assistance (grants and soft loans). DP5 includes a five-year road
development program involving road improvements amounting to a total
of  $6.4  million.   Most  of  this  expenditure  is  concentrated  on
Tongatapu  ($4.24  million),  followed by Vsva'u   ($1.02  million),
Ha'apai ($668,000), 'Eua Island ($323,000) and the Niuas ($758,000);
about $5.4 million has been allocated for improvement of rural roads.
The maintenance program is financed under the Government's recurrent
budget and the annual amount spent on road maintenance -- roughly
$400,000 in FY1983/843T is sufficient to maintain the road network to
an adequate standard.-   It is estimated that in FY1983/84, road user
charges  in the form of  fuel sales taxes, vehicle  licenses  and
registration   fees   covered   about   a   third   of   the   road
maintenance program.   The Government is currently reviewing these
charges with a view to raising more revenue from road users;
fuel taxes have recently been raised and license fees have been
increased, but the new rates are not -et effective (see para 84).
2.   Ports and Shipping
19.        Nuku'alofa,  on  Tongatapu,   Is   the   country's   main
international  port.   During  1984,  it  handled  183  international
vessels; imports through the port totalled about 63,000 tons, exports
about 17,000 tons and 25,000 transit passengers from B cruise ships
used  the  port.   The  Queen  Salote  Wharf  project-   Is  naaring
1/  The Bank provided TA 109-TON, Road Improvement and Maintenance
Study, approved In May 1974 to strengthen the road sector in
Tonga and to prepare high-priority projects for possible
consideration by external funding agencies. Some of the roads
identified by this technical assistance study were financed
under the First Multiproject Loan, Loan No. 435-TON(SF), approved
in December 1979.
2/   Apart from Government counterpart funding.
3/   The average amount allocated per km of formed road Is $860. This
is sufficient under Tongan conditions to maintain the roads to
an adequate  standard.   In  practice,  road   aintenance funds
are sometimes diverted and used for other purposes.
4/ Financed under Australian bilateral aid.



8
completion and will provide two deepwater international berths, an
interisland berth and a loading/unloading ramp; the project also
includes provision of ancillary facilities and improved cargo handling
equipment, particularly for containers.  The fishing harbor of Fau'a,
which is adjacent to the Queen Salote Wharf, is being constructed with
assistance from the EEC, while extensive Zoreshore protection works in
Nuku'alofa are being financed under German bilateral aid. Neiafu on
Vava'u already has a deepwater harbor; the port has recently been
upgraded with assistance from the EEC and can handle small- to medium-
sized container vessdla and large international cruise ships can
anchor in the approach  channel.  Tonga's remaining  ports handle
interisland vessels and act as transshipment ports for the small
outlying islands.   Pangai is being developed as the main port in the
Ha'apai group and it is also being used as the main transshipment
point for tha northern Ha'apai islands.  Nuku'alofa acts as the 17ain
transshipment point for the islands of Nomuka, Ha'afeva and 'Eua.-
20.       Tongan ports are administered by the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), through  its  Harbours  and  Wharves  Department  (HWD).   The
Government's development objectives  for  the  sector are  to:   (i)
provide regular, efficient and safe cargo and passenger transport,
both internationally and locally; (ii) provide efficient, speedy and
economic handling of cargo; (iii) ensure adequate shipping services
and onshore facilities in outer islands to encourage development;
and  (iv)  provide necessary  land and facilities  for storing and
handling cargo in close proximity to wharves.  The Controller of
Customs is responsible for all of the charges specified under the
Harbours Act and the Wharves Act and also for the administration of
both  Acts.   Port  construction  and  maintenance  are  under  the
jurisdiction of MOW and, although the Prime Minister is concurrently
the Minister of Marine and is responsible for all fpipping matters,
there is no Ministry of Marine.   A previous study-  suggested that
the organizations dealing with the marine sector needed to be
rationalized and that consideration should be given to establishing a
semi autonomous Ports Authority. The Government has proposed instead
that a Marine Department be established -- headed by a Director of
Marine -- to take over responsibility for administering all port and
shipping matters. This proposal is still under active consideratiol,
and an adviser from the International Maritime Organization (IMO)-
is helping to define the responsibilities of the new Department. The
IMO adviser is also reviewing and upgrading the maritime legislation
under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Marine.
1/ The Bank's First Multiproject Loan, Loan No. 435-TON(SF),
included improvement of Nuku'alofa Landing Ramp, Ha'apai Wharf,
and improvement of Niuatoputapu Wharf and Niuafolou Landing Ramp
in the Niuas.
2/ Financed under Australian technical assistance and carried out in
1979/80.
3/  Financed under Norwegian bilateral aid, with UNDP as the
executing agency.



9
21.       At least seven major shipping lines providi1international
services to Nuku'alofa (including container services);- olie of these
- the Warner Pacific Line -- also provides an internatienal service
to Neiafu. Major domestic services operate between Nuku'alofa and the
regional ports   of  Pangai,  Neiafu  (including a weekly  container
service), Ha'afeva, Nomuka, and Nafanua (on 'Eua Island), *hile less
frequent services operate to the Niuas. Small boat services operate
between these ports and the smaller outer islands. The public sector
is a major participant in both international and domestic shippil
services. The Government is a shareholder of the Pacific Forum Line-
and charters a Tongan vessel, the Fua Kavenga, out to the line. The
Government also operates inter island services through the Shipping
Corporation of Polynesia - 60 per cent is owned by the Government and
40 per cent by Columbus Line -- in competition with private operators
which currently provide all other interisland services.
3.   Telecommunications
22.       Telecommunications services in Tonga are provided by the
Tonga Telecommunications Commission (TTC) which was established as a
public corporation in December 1983 and began operations in July 1984.
Prior to that, telecommunications services were provided by the
Telegraphs and Telephones Department (TTD) which was a government
department. TTC acts as the licensing authority and discharges this
function on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office under regulations
promulgated by that Office. TTC is charged with operating, maintaining
and developing the domestic telecommunications system in an efficient
and  profitable manner.   International  telecommunications  services
(both telephone and telex) are provided through a satellite  ear5
station located in Nuku'alofa and operated by Cable and Wireless.-
The telecommunications services connecting Tongatapu with Ha'apai and
Vava'u are currently provided by a five-channel ultra high frequency
radio link and a four-channel high frequency (HF) sideband radio link
respectively. The capacity of these links is limited and service is
poor. To improve the service, the Government has recently signed an
agreement with Cable and Wireless u¶ er which the Company will install
a tropo-scatter trunk line system- to replace these services. The
system has a capacity of 48 circuits (there are two voice channels per
1/   They include Bali Hai Service (to/from Japan), Bank Line (to/from
N. W. Europe), Kyawa Shipping Line (to/from S.E. Asia), Pacific
Forum Line (to/from Australasia), South West Pacific Containers
Line (to/from the South Pacific), Star Shipping Associates
(to/from Honolulu and the South Pacific) and Warner Pacific Line
(to/from Australasia).
2/   The shareholders are the Governments of Cook Islands, Fiji,
Kiribati, Nauru, New Zealand, PNG, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu
and W. Samoa. Australia also makes ad hoc contributions to the
line.
3/   A Public Limited Company registered in United Kingdom.
47   This  system  uses  microwaves  which  are  scattered  by  the
troposphere (the lower portion of the atmosphere) and amplified
at the receiving end.  The normal microwave  system  involves
direct transmission from one antenn to another.



10
circuit) and 24 are initially being dedicated to the Vava'u services
and 12 to the Ha'apai service. One voice circuit -- equivalent to 24
teleprinter circuits -- will be leased to provide teleprinter/telex
services to Vava'u.
23.       The  telecommunic,ptions network is well-developed on the
main island of Tongatapu,- but services on the other islands are
generally poor. Tongatapu has three automatic telephone exchanges with
a capacity of 2,000 lines;  Neiafu on Vava'u has a reconditioned
240-line   manual   exchange   which   was  originally  installed  in
Tongatapu in 1954 and later transferred to Neiafu; and Hatapai has a
150-line manual exchange. A very high frequency (VHF) radio system is
used to connect the main island of Tongatapu to 'Eua Island and HF
radio links are used to provide connections to other islands.
24.        TTC has been examining ways of  improving the nation}
transmission network with the assistance of Australian bilateral ald-
and a Corporate Plan (FY1984/85-FY1988/89) has now been prepared by
TTC to guide its future development. Based on this, the corporation
has prepared a Five-Year development program costing about $2.4
million for inclusion in DP5. Preparation of the development program
was accompanied by revision of tariffs and improvements in accounting
procedures. Tariffs are reviewed from time to time and are
periodically adjusted to ensure that the corporation covers its costs
(see Appendix 1 for TTC's accounts for its first financial year).
4.   Civil Aviation
25.       Fua'amotu airport on Tongatapu is Tonga's main international
airport; in 1984 it accommodated 2,499 aircraft movements (1,412
international and 1,087 domestic) and handled 22,874 passenger
arrivals and  21,938 departures.   The country's second airport on
Vava'u handled 1,041 aircraft movements in 1984 and 8,970 passengers
(1,958 international and 7,012 domestic). Vava'u airport has a coral
pavement which has recently been upgraded to give a 1,000-meter
effective runway which can handle 40-seater aircraft without
difficulty. The airport on Ha'apai has also recently been upgraded
and can now handle 20-seater aircraft. The other airfields on 'Eua
Island, Niuatoputapu and Niuafo'ou have relatively short, coral or
grass runways and can only handle small aircraft.
26.        Tonga  currently   relies  on  neighboring  countries  for
international air service. Airlines providing international service
include Air Pacific, Polynesian Airlines, Hawaiian Air and Air New
Zealand.   There are no direct services to Australia, although several
I/ The Bank financed a Telecommunications Project, Loan No. 146-TON
(SF), approved in November 1973, which replaced the Nuku'alofa
exchange, relocated the manual exchange from Nuku'alofa to
Vava'u, provided a manual exchange in Ha'apai and provided
high-frequency links between Nuku'alofa, Vava'u, Ha'apai and
'Eua; a component of the First Multiproject, Loan No. 435-TON(SF),
approved in December 1979, improved the link between Nuku'alofa
and Vava'u.
2/   A  Report,   Feasibility  of  Inter-Island  Telecoimunications,
financed by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB)
was prepared in 1980.



11
airlines have requested permission from the Government to fly this
sector.   The  Government  recently  established  Its own airline  -
Friendly Island Airways. It will initially proy.de domestic services
and will later expand to international routes.-   The airline offers
daily service to Vava'u and 'Eua Island, a twice-weekly service to
Ha'apai  and  once-a-week  service  to  Niuatoputapu.   A  service  to
Niuato'ou operates every other week.
F. Tourism
27.        The tourist industry has been slow to develop and the
average annual growth in visitor arrivals between FY1980/81 and
FY1984/85 was 4.5 per cent.   During FY1984/85,  76.5 per cent of
visitors consisted of passengers and crew from cruise ships.  Such
visitors stay for short periods of time (2-3 days) and spend
relatively little money within the Tongan economy. Visitors arriving
by air during FY1984/85 numbered  13,713  (16.2 per cent of total
visitors) and stayed for an average of 7.2 nights.
28.       A major constraint on the number of tourists visiting Tonga,
and hence on the growth of the tourist industry, has been the rigid
airfare structure that, until mid-1984, precluded the use of cheap
promotional fares.   This policy was effectively controlled by the
major  in-bound carrier, Air New Zealand.  However, changes in the
management  styles of competing  airlines  such  as  Air  Pacific,
Hawaiian Air and Polynesian Airlines have now resulted in a more
competitive  environment.   Both Ansett Airways and Trans Australia
Airlines are currently negotiating for landing rights in Tonga and,
with the expected substitution of Boeing 767s for the Boeing 737s
currently used by Air New Zealand, a doubling in the number of
in-bound passenger seats is likely.
29.       Tourist facilities  in Tonga are  relatively  scarce  and
are of uneven quality. There is no accommodation suitable for use by
large tour groups and the total number of high-st&ndard beds available
is  estimated  at  384.   Suitable  investment  opportunities  exist,
particularly in the Vava'u and Ha'apai groups, for the establishment
of  small  resorts  with  good  tourist  class  accommodation  and
recreational facilities. A small number (6-8) of such resorts were
established during FY1984/85 and they bave generally been successful.
C. Finance
30.       The financial sector consists primarily  of  the  Bank  of
Tongs (BOT) and TDB. There are also a number of small credit unions
engaged in small-scale savings and consumer finance operations, but
their  role  is negligible.   In  prospect  is  the  establishment  of
a  Central  Bank.   If established, the Central Bank's primary role
will be to hold the Kingdom's foreign exchange reserves, a function
at present carried out by BOT. Although draft legislation has
been prepared to establish the Central Bank, it is unlikely that a
decision to proceed with the legislation will be taken during 1986.
17   Piloting and maintenance are carried out by personnel licensed in
New Zealand and the operation of aircraft must comply with New
Zealand rules and regulations. Inspectors from the New Zealand
Civil Aviation Authority periodically check the operation of the
aircraft.



12
31.       BOT was established in mid-1974 as the country*s first and
only commercial bank. In addition to providing the normal services
of a commercial and savings bank, BOT is the holder of the Kingdom's
foreign exchange reserves and performs the role of a monetary authority.
At 30 September 1985, the total assets of BOT were T$41.2 million
(US$29.4 million equivalent) which represented an increase of 105.0
per cent over the level of December 1980. At 30 September 1985, 36.4
per cent of BOT's resources were on-lent to the private sector within
Tonga; 56.9 per cent were being held as investments and deposits in
overseas financial markets.
32.        Interest   rate   levels   within   Tonga   are   controlled
under the Contracts Act of 1921 which sets a maximum interest rate
level of 10 per cent. Appendix 2 provides details of interest rates
currently prevailing in Tonga.  BOT currently pays between 5.0 per
cent and 6.75 per cent for deposits and charges between 8.0 per cent
and 10 per cent for loans. TDB's lending rates range from 6 per cent
to 10 per cent depending on the loan amount and the nature of the
sector  receiving  thfi loan.   A  review of Tonga's interest rate
structure during 1984-  revealed that since 1970 the interest rate
structure had resulted in negative real rates of return to savers; the
rates ranged from minus 5.1 per cent to minus 9.35 per cent. This
factor is considered to have contributed significantly to the low
savings rate of about 9.0 per cent of national disposable income; this
resulted in a resource gap for investment that averaged about 10 per
cent of GDP between FY1980/81 and FY1983/84.
33.        The authorities have recognized the problems created by
current interest rate policies and are currently considering two areas
of draft  legislation  that might  improve matters.   The  first  is
amendment of the  Contracts Act of  1921  to  remove  the   current
interest rate ceiling and to provide the Minister of Finance with
powers to establish new interest rate ceilings as required.  The
second is establishment of a Central Monetary Authority.  Under the
second proposal, the proposed Central Monetary Authority would have
powers to establish minimum and maximum interest rate levels within
the financial sector. No decision has yet been made as to which of
these options is preferable; other options may also be considered
before a final decision is taken.
H. Construction and Consulting Industry
34.       MOW and the Tonga  Construction Company (a branch of the
Government-owned Commodities Board) have been the traditional sources
of construction services in Tonga; MOW carries out a variety of civil
works activities, while the Tonga Construction Company concentrates on
building  construction.   MOW's  resources  are  limited;  it has one
qualified engineer (who is Director of Works), no qualified architects
or quantity surveyors and its heavy plant and equipment is only
capable of undertaking certain types of civil works.  The private
sector has developed rapidly in recent years and there are now at
least four small-sized local companies capable of carrying out
1/   Under Bank technical assistance, T.A. No. 510-TON, approved in
April 1983.



13
all types of standard building work from construction of houses to
industrial buildings. There is also one fIre which has the capacity
to  design,  fabricate  and  erect  steel-f ra     buildings.  This
compoany, in association wlth another local firm, is currently
negotiating for the consfjuction of a steel-frame aircraft hanger for
Friendly Island Airways.-
35.        The  Government  has  decided  that  in  the  future  more
construction work should be undertaken by the private sector and that
MOW should concentrate on maintenance of public facilities and on
design and construction supervision of civil works projects.  The
Government wishes to e,youtage private contractors to acquire their
own plant and equlpment,- and to this ead It is proposing to revise
MOW's plant hire rates to set them on a more comercial bais.  It is
expected that this will encourage private Investment In the
construction Industry and will make private contractors more
competitive with MOW's force account work.
36.       There ar  several small consulting firms in Tong. The mot
significant of thse has offices in Nuku'alofa and Neiafu and Is staffed
by three qualified architects and other Tongan staff trained at Lae
University of Teehnology  In Papu"  New Guinea.  The firm  has an
associated office in Auckland, New Zealand. The services of structural
englneers, mechanical/electrical engineers and quantity surveyors are
provided by consultants In New Zealand as required. Their curret
workload includes design and Implementation of school and church
buildings, as well as the new Prime Minister's Office I Nuku'alofa.
I. Need for Further Investment
37.       Only three of the plots in the existing 12  cre SIC site on
Tongatapu  remain  vacant  for  future  developmet.-   The  present
"pipeline" of applications for Industrial space at the SIC includes
five applications for Nursery Units and five for Factory Sheds. A
pipeline of siuilar enterprises has been identifid by NLCI, but the
prima facie v ,bllity of these enterprises Is still being assessed by
the Ministry.-   Shortages of nursery/factory space and of serviced
plots are becoming a constraint on development of further Industrial
enterprises and there is now a need to extend the present 12-acro site
Into the 8-acre reserve and to erect more nursery/factory sheds on the
existing site.
38.       The Government Is eager to extend its industrial development
policy to other areas outside the main island of Tongatapu In an
attempt to halt the steady drift of population from the outer Islands.
During the past four yars, .the Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperation (CFTC) has supported two studies for Identifying the
11 Scan Tonga Engineering Ltd.
2/ One private company, Royco, already has a reasonable range of
equipment some of which it leases to NOW.
3/  Two others are currently vacant, but are under offer.
4/  Applications have been received for repair of marine enIes,
anufacture and printing of handicraft items, manufacture and
rpair of shoes, fish  processing, manufacture of autombile
wheels, mwaufacture of detergent, manufacture of mails,
upholstering, maufacture of spectacle cases and frmao, etc.



14
scope for developing new small-scale Industries /In Tonga in
general, and In the northern islands in particular.-   The studies
identified four enterprises which prima facie appeared to be suitable
for  establishment   on  Vavalu,   which  has  the  second  largest
concentration of population In Tonga: (i) a timber treatment plant;
(ii) manufacture of wooden furniture; (iii) an automotive repair
workshop; and (iv) manufacture of polythene film and bags. Formal
applications have already been submitted to NLCI for allocation of
industrial space for repair and assembly of refrigeration units,
manufacture of coral jewellery and manufacture of fencing materials.
These  three  projects  currently  comprise  the  firm   pipeline  of
projects  for  establishment  on   Vava'u.  Informal  expressions  of
interest have also been received concerning soft drink bottling,
manufacture of rubber footwear,   and frozen fruit juice and pulp
extraction. Apart from fruit juice and pulp extraction, all of these
enterprises are aimed at the domestic market. The need on Vava'u is
thus for serviced industrial sites and associated workshop/factory
buildings to serve small-scale service industries designed to serve
the local market. In due course larger export-oriented industries
may also wish to establish there.
39.       When the SIC in Tongatapu was first established, it was
envisaged that it would operate on a no-profit no-loss basis and would
therefore require no subsidy from the Government. Rental fees were
thus initially set at levels that provided for full cost recovery; it
was planned to revise rental fees every  five  years.   However,  the
operating costs of the SIC escalated more rapidly than expected
and the SIC has not managed to break even.  In 1985 it is expected to
incur a net operating loss of about $16.000 (see Appendix 3) and
rental fees would need to be raised by about 38 per cent to break
even.  The Bank'j Project Performance Audit Report on the Small
Industries Centre- recommended more frequent review and adjustment of
rental fees to reduce the subsidy element.  There is thus a need to
undertake a thorough review of rntal fee policy to identify the
options available and the time horizon over which the fees might be
implemented to help eliminate these subsidies (see para 83).
40.       It is estimated that 'Eua Island has about 4,340 hectares of
land considered arable by traditional methods of cultivation.  By the
end of 1985, 3,800 hectares had been allocated as rural tax allotments
and a  further 540 hectares were unallocated and were not being
systematically cultivated. The Island has a limited system of coral
and earth roads, a grass airfield and a small harbor at Nafanua. The
harbor is small and can only accommodate small boats, and the entrance
channel, which is exposed to strong westerly winds, is dangerous and
difficult to enter (see Appendix 4 for a description of current port
facilities). The Island is linked to Tongatapu by a small boat
service and daily light aircraft service; there is a single telephone
1/ Action Plans for the getablishement of Small Industries In the
Northern Islands Group, 1982, and Market Survey for Tonga e
Processed  AgRcultural Produce,  1913, Comonvalth  Fund  for
Technical Cooperation.
21   PPAR No. PE-132, circulated to the Board in December, 1984.



15
connected  to  Tongatapu  by  a  single  channel  VHF  radio  link.
Agricultural support services are provided by an Agricultural Colle4,
(which needs to be upgraded), four agricultural extension off ik.ers,--
a small produce market and a branch of TDB. Despite the Island's
potential for development in agriculture, forestry and fisheries and
its proximity to the main island of Tongatapu, it has the lowest per
capita GDP in Tonga ($260 in FV1981/82 compared to the average GDP of
$430).
41.        To  facilitate  development  of  'Eua  Island,  the Central
Planning Department has prepared an integrated regional development
program for the Island comprising road, Uarbor and telecoumunications
improvements; oXtension and upgrading of the existing agricultural
college;    improvement  of  agricultural  extension  services  and
agricultural marketing facilities; provision of a bulk fuel store;
establishment of a handicraft center; and improvement of water and
power supplies. The initial phase of development, which is designed
to   remove   key   infrastructure   constraints,   comprises:    (i)
improvement  of  Nafanua  Harbour;   (ii)  provision  of  additional
agricultural access roads; and (iii) upgrading of telecommunications
services.   If the agricultural potential of  'Eua lsland is to be
realized in terms of more intense utilization of the 3,800 hectares
already cultivated as well as the additional 540 hectares awaiting
allocation at, tax allotments, key infrastructure constraints need to
be  removed;-   following  that,  agricultural  support  services  and
supportive social infrastructure facilities need to be upgraded.
42.       The Government has prepared a five-year road program (see
paragraph 18) which, among other things, allocates $4.24 million for
improvment of trunk and feeder roads on Tongatapu. However, while
the roads to be improved have been tentatively identified, there is a
need to review them with a view to establishing investment priorities
and preparing a phased program for their implementation over the
five-year plan period. Once these priorities have been established,
it is expected that New Zealand an.d Australia may support improvement
of the main highway and trunk ro d network; the remaining need will
then be to support improvement of reeder roads.
43.       TDB supports the Government's development objectives through
provision of medium- and long-term loans for projects that meet its
investment criteria and contribute to the economic development of the
Kingdom. TDB's approval levels have shown steady growth since 1983
and this growth is projected to continue. On the basis of its current
pipeline of loan applications and its assessment of the likely
investment needs of its client base, TDB is projecting total loan
approvals  of  T$8.5  million  (US$6.1  million   equivalent)  during
FY1986/87 and FY1987/88. Of this amount, approximately T$3.8 million
(US$2.7 million equivalent) will represent approvals for the purchase
17 There are no fisheries extension officers on the Island.
2/ The slngle-channel radio link is largely used for making business
calls associated with the shipment of produce to Tongatapu for
export (e.g. bananas), or for sale in the local market.



16
of imported Items. As of 31 December 1985, TDB had US$1.4 million in
foreign  exchange  resources  available  for  financing   such  loans,
leaving a foreign exchange resource gap of approximately $1.3 million
for the FY1986/87 and FY1987/88. Since current interest rate policies
have led to a number of difficulties (see para 32), there is a need to
undertake a review of these policies to assess the relative costs and
benefits of the present and alternative interest rate regimes with a
view to recommending future courses of action (see para 91).



17
PART A: THE MULTIPROJECT LOAN
III. THE PROPOSED MULTIPROJECT
A.   Objectives and Scope
44.       The  Multiproject  aims  at  assisting  the  Government  in
undertaking a number of high-priority development projects which are
expected to be included in DP5.  Each of the subprojects comprising
the Multiproject will either by itself or in conjunction with other
subprojects support one or more of the following Government
objectives:    (1)  economic   diversification  and  development  of
manufacturing; (ii) regional development, particularly the development
of islands outside of Tongatapu; and (iii) development of agriculture
and forestry.   In this  context,  the considerations governing the
selection of the subprojects included the following:
(i)  the subproject should be accorded high priority by the
Government and should be consistent with its objectives.
(ii)  the subproject should prima facie be technical feasible,
economically viable and suitable for Bank financing; and
(ii)  the subproject should not require further detailed, or
time-consuming feasibility studies.
45.       The subprojects selected on the above basis for inclusion in
the Multiproject are as follows:
1.  Small Industries Centre (SIC) Expansion (Tongatapu)
2.  Small Industries Centre (SIC) Establishment (Vava'u)
3.  Nafanua Harbour Improvement ('Eua Island)
4.  Agricultural Access Roads ('Eua Island)
5.  Telecommunications System Upgrading ('Eua Island)
6.  Rural Roads Improvement CTongatapu)
46.       These subprojects are expected to increase employment, to
earn  or save foreign exchange, and to facilitate self-sufficiency in
food production; all of them are prima facie suitable for Bank
financing.   However,  before  final  approval  is  given,  individual
appraisal reports will be prenared by the Government with the
assistance of consultants to be engaged under the proposed technical
assistance to be provided by the Bank and by the Australian
Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) (see paras 91-93). The appraisal
report for each subproject will be submitted to the Bank for review
and approval before any funds are released for the subproject. The
aubproject appraisal report will include, among other things, the
following:   (i)  a complete description of the subproject;   (ii)
confirmation  of  the technical soundness of the subproject;   (iii)
detailed cost estimates, showing foreign and local costs and physical
and price  contingencies;  (iv) designation  of  the  Implementing
Agency  and   detailed   implementation arrangements,   including   a
description of the proposed procurement procedures; (v) a detailed
implementation   schedule;      (vi)    financial   and/or   economic
justification for the subproject; and (vii) an assessment of the



18
environmental impact of the subproject and proposals for minimizing
any adverse environmental 1ffects during the construction and
operation of the subproject.-   In the case of Subproject No.  5
(Telecommunications  System  Upgradlig   on    'Eua   Island),  the
subproject appraisal report will provide additional justification to
show thMt the exchange and radio equipment proposed represents the
most co -effective solution.
B.   Description of Subprojects
1.   SICEnnsio Ta.tu
47.       This  subproject  has  two  components:   (i)   development
of the remaining eight-acre SIC site to provide an additional 12 to
14 serviced plots; and (ii)  erection of two factory sheds (2 x 286
eq m), one nursery building (429 sq m), const1uction of a combined
bonded  warehouse/site  office/meeting  room,-   and  provision  of
equipment. The new factory/nursery buildings will provide space for
seven new enterprises on the site. Site development includes land
cleartin, filling and grading of the site, demarcation of plots,
provision of access roads. provision of a stormvater drain and
installation of utilities. To simplify design, the dimensions and
size of the new sheds are to be the sat as those constructed under
the Bank's Second  Multiproject  Loan.-   The present capacity of
utilities on Tongatapu (namely power, water, and telecommunications)
ts adequate to service the expanded SIC site, and utilities
expenditure will be limited to expansion of distribution and supply
lines. The site has Its own sewage treatment plant with adequate
capacity to service the expanded site.
48.       The SIC is under the administrative control of MLCI and  the
day-to-dAy running of the estate is handled by an Estate Manager,
who is assisted by an accountant and seven supporting staff. There
are plans to create a new post of Maintenance Officer in FY1986/87 to
deal with the maintenance and repair of buildings and utilities.
2.   SIC Establishment (Vavatu)
49.       This subproject includes acquisition of a thirteen-acre site
in Neiafu, development of an initial eight acres of the site to
provide   12 to  14 serviced plots,  erection of two multi-purpose
workshop/factory buildings (2 x 286 sq m), and provision of a small
office, common wasbroom facilities, a vehicle and equipment.
Selection of a suitable site will be a malor factor in the success of
the SIC, and It was consequently agreed that leasing or making other
final arrangements for a suitable site (see para 81) would be a
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paras 1 and 3 and Schedule 5, para 5.
I/   One unit in a Nursery Building Is currently used as the site
office; once permanent office space has been provided, this would
be re-used as nursery space.
I/   Loan No. 540-TON(SF), approved in 1981.



19
condition of Bank financing of this subproject.-L Site development
includes land clearing, gradlng, demarcation of plots, fencing,
construction of access roads and  installation of utilitles.   The
buildings will be designed to minimize costs and permit flexible use.
The present capacity of power and water supplies on Vava'u is adequate
to serve the proposed SIC and, since supply lines run close to the
site boundary, no connection problems are anticipated. Sewage will be
disposed of by means of septic tanks serving each of the
workshop/factory   buildings;    this   is   considered   the   most
cost-effective solution for this item.
50.       The proposed SIC will be admlnistered by MLCI, and the
Government proposes to appoint a qualified Deputy Estate Manager to
deal with the day-to-day management and operation of the site under
the general guidance of the Estate Manager on Tongatapu. The
Vava'u SIC will also receive support In the form of accounting
services, etc. from the Estate Office on Tongatapu.
3.  Nafanua Harbour Improvement ('Eua Island)
51.       This subproject involves improvement of Nafanua Harbour;-/
the detailed engineering and construction supervision for this
subproject are to be financed by Australia under parallel financing
arrangements (see para 92).  The subproject includes provfiding an
adequate basin for maneuvering vessels, constructing a wharf and
loading ramp, providing a cargo and passenger handling and storage
area, widening the harbor entrance, providing necessary navigational
beacons, and constructing a small boat landing ramp. The harbor will
be administered by MWD within MOF.
4. Agricultural Access Roads ('Eua Island)
52.       This subproject consists of construction  of  about  20
km of agricultural access roads with a 4-i  formation width and 4-m
pavement. The sections of road to be constructed run along established
rights-of-way (only two short sections still need to be surveyed) and
will open up areas of agricultural potential not currently accessible
except on foot or horseback. The Government has undertaken to finance
the entire local cost of the roads to be constructed under the
Multiproject and will ensure that MOW ass ujs responsibility for
maintaining the roads to an adequate standard.-
1/  Loan Agreemnt, Schedule 3, para 5(i).  A suitable site has
already been identified in Neiafu on the outskirts of the
bullt-up are (See Appendix 5).
2/ A description of existing harbor facilities is given in Appendix 4.
3/I Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 13. Agricultural access roads
are normally constructed on a cost-sharing basis; the Government
finances 90 per cent of the cost and the smallholders finance the
remalning 10 per cent. The maintenance of these roads is left to
the  _allholders. The system does not work satisfactorily;   it
leads to considerable implementation delays while smallbolders
are contacted and sked for their contribution, and the roads
are rarely aaintained.



20
5.   Telecommunications System Upgrading ('Eua Island)
53.       This subproject involves establishing a multiplex channel
radio link between 'Eua Island and Nuku'alofa, together with
installation of a 128-line automatic telephone exchange in 'Ohonua.
The subproject includes provision of an automatic exchange, an
exchange building, a radio and associated multiplex equipment, a small
Power supply f or periods of the day when the main supply is shut
JOWU,-t a limited distribution network, cable laying, staff training
and engineering, furnishing and installation. That part of the Loan
proceeds to be allocated for financing this subproject will be relent
.y the Government to TTC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Execution, delivery and effectiveness of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
by  the  Government  and  TTC,  containing  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory to the Governments the Bvk and TTC, will be a condition
of Bank financing of this subproject.-   It has also been agreed tat
the onlending rate will be 8 per cent per annum and that the loan will
be repaid over 15 years with a three-year grace period.  The foreign
exchange risk with 3espect to the repayment of the loan will be borne
by the Government.-
6.   Rural Roads Improvement (Tongatapu)
54.       This subproject includes improvement of about 30 km of road
on Tongatapu to all-weather coral standard (6 m formation width and 6
m pavement width). The road sections to be improved will be selected
from the Government's indicative five-year road program and the
viability of improving these roads will be established under the Bank
financed technical assistance (see paras 91-93). The roads improved
under this subproject will be maintained by MOW as part of their
regular road maintenance program for Tongatapu.
C.  Cost Estimates
55.       The total cost of the Multiproject is estimated at $2.52
million equivalent (inclusive of taxes and duties) of which the
foreign exchange cost is $2.00 million (about 79 per cent) including
about $22,000 for the service charge on the Bank loan during
construction; the local cost is $0.52 million equivalent (about 21
per cent). The cost estimates for the Tongatapu SIC expansion,
establishment of the new SIC on Vava'v and road works on Tongatapu
and 'Eut Island, were derived from estimates prepared by MOW and were
adjusted to end-1985 prices.  Since MOW's unit rates for selected
construction work are to be reviewed under the Bank technical
assistance (see para 91), a ten per cent allowance was made for
physical contingencies on these items. The cost of the telephone
exchange and radio equipment was based on quotations from suppliers
and was likewise adjusted to end-1985 prices. The costs for Nafanua
Harbour were based on an engineering reconnaisance study carried out by
I/  The maim  power supply, which has plenty  of spare capacity,
operates from 6 am to 12 am and from 4 pm to 12 pm.
2/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, para 5 (iii).
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 14.



21
consultants / and financed under technical assistance provided by
ADAB. These cost estimates are tentative since they were prepared
without detailed   site investigations.   A 15 per cent allowance has
therefore  been made for physical contingencies on this item.  A
summary of the cost estimates Is given in Table I (see Appendix 6 for
detailed cost estimates).
1/   Connell, Eddie, Riedel and Byrne (Australia).



22
Table 1. Summary Cost Estimates of the Multiproject
($'000 at end-1985 prices)
Foreign    Local
Exchange  Currency   Total
Cost     Cost      Cost
Base Cos0t:
1. Small Industries
Centre Expansion                  263.4    151.4       414.8
2. Small Industries
Centre Establishment              115.0      61.0      176.0
3.  Nafanua Harbour Improvement       529.6      85.3      614.9
4.  Agricultural Access Roads          116.9     34.4      151.3
5. Telecommunications System
Upgrading                         248.3       9.0      257.3
6.  Rural Roads Improvement           281.5      82.8      364.3
Total Base Cost                          1,554.7    423.9    1,978.6
Physical Contingency                       169.5     46.3       215.8-
Price Contingency                          249.4     52.3       301.7k/
Service Charge on the Bank Loan
During Construction                         22.2       0         22.2
Total-'                             l,995.8    522.5    2,518.3
a/   Physical contingencies are 10 per cent for Subproject Nos. 1, 2,
4 and 6. They are 15 per cent for Subproject No. 3, and 5 per
cent for Subproject No. 5.
b/   Price contingencies are based on the following price escalation
factors: foreign exchange costs, 7,0 per cent for 1986 and 1987
and 7.5 per cent for 1988; local costs, 7.0 per cent for 1986,
1987 and 1988.
c/   Excluding the cost of consulting services to be financed under
Bank advisory technical assistance and by ADAB under parallel
financing arrangments.



23
D. Financing Plan
56.       The financing plan is shown in Table 2.  It is proposed that
the Bank provide a loan of $2.0 million equivalent from Its Special
Funds resources which represents about 79 per cent of the total cost
of  the Multiproject.   The  loan will  finance  the  entire  foreign
exchange cost of the Multiproject, including the service charge on the
Bank loan during construction. To facilitate prompt disbursement of
the loan proceeda, the Government has requested establishment of an
Imprest account and statement of expenditure which will be setlyp
under appropriate procedures as a matter of project administration.-
Table 2: Project F*nancing Plan
($'000)
Foreign     Local
Exchange  Currency    Total
._ Cost     Cost      Cost       Per Cent
Bank Loan                 2,000         -        2,000        79.4
Government Financing          -       520          520        20.6
Total                     2,000       520        2,520       100.0
57.       The borrower of the Bank loan will be the Kingdom of Tonga.
The Government has assured the Bank that all funds needed to implement
the Multiproject in addition to those provided under the Bank lo10
will be made available on a timely basis from its own resources.-
For this purpose, the Government has already Included necessary funds
in the national budget for FY 1986/87 and has agreed to make a similar
provision in future years.
58.        If after  the Government  or  the Bank has  reviewed an
individual appraisal report, it is found that a subproject is not
suitable for implementation, it will be deleted from the Multiproject.
A substitute subproject may then be included in the Multiproject
pr9vided the Government and the Bank agroe that: (i) it mets the
selection criteria applied in identifying the subprojects (see para
44); (ii) it is appraised under the same procedures applied to the
original  aubprojects  (see   para  46);  and   (iii)   the   required
financing is consistent with he limits of the proposed financing
available under the Bank loan.-
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, pars 8.
2/   Loan Agreement, Section 4.02(a).
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para 2, and Schedule 5, pare 5.



24
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION!'
A. Executing Agency and Project Coordination
59.       The Executing Agency for the Multiproject will be MOF. Each
subproject will be implemented by a designated Implementing Agency
(see ection B below). The Secretary for Finance has been designated
as Project Coordinator and will be responsible for the overall
coordination and execution of the Project; the Goverment has agreed
to consult the Bank2prior to making any changes in the position of
Project Coordinator.- The Project Coordinator will coordinate the
preparation of each subproject and present it to the Bank for
approval, and will supervise the channelling of loan proceeds to the
respective  Implementing  Agencies.   The  Project  Coordinator  will
consult and be assisted and supported by the Central Planning
Department (CPD) In the coordination of the Multiproject. The Project
Coordinator will also3pct as the liaison between the Implementing
Agencies and the Bank.-
60.        To assist  the Project Coordinator in carrying out his
responsibilities,   the  Government  has  agreed  to  establish  a
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) by 31 July 1986. The Project
Coordinator will serve as Chairman of the PCC which will also have as
members the Deputy Secretary for Finance (as member and secretary for
the PCC), the Secretary of Labour, Commerce and Industries, the
Director of Works, the Director of Planning and the General Manager of
TTC. The PCC will meet at least once every two months and will be
responsible for the overall planning and scheduling of all subproject
activities,   for  the  periodic  review  and  monitoring  of  the
progress  (f  individual/ subprojects  and  for  progress  on  the
Nultiproject as a whole.-
61.       The above arrangements are expected t: ensure more effective
coor0ination and follow-up than would be possible If there were a
number of separate executing agencies. This arrangement. excluding
the establishment of a PCC, has been successfully used in the two
previous Multiproject loans (see para 77). The designation of MOF as
Ewecvting Agency should also ensure that the Multiproject costs are
kept within reasonable limits and local funds are provided promptly.
MOF Is suitably staffed; it includes a Secretary, Deputy Secretary
and Assistant Secretary for Finance, an Accountant-General, an
Accountant for Development Projects, an Economist, two accountants, a
senior accounting officer, six accounting officers and a chief clerk
who supervises a support staff of about 34. MOF also has subtreasury
officers stationed on 'Eua Island and in Nelafu.
_/   Section E summarizes  the implementation status of previous Bank
projects.
2    Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 3.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 1.
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 4.



25
B. Implementing Agencies
62.       The implementation of the individual subprojects,  including
all technical, constructon and procurement activities will be done by
the following Agencies:-
(1) Ministry of Labour, Commerce and Industries:
Subproject No. 1 - Small Industries Centre Expansion
(Tongatapu)
Subproject No. 2 - Small Industries Centre Establishment
(Vava'u)
(il) Ministry of Works:
Subproject Nos. 3, 4 and 6 - Nafanua Harbour Improvement and
Agricultural Access Roads ('Eua Island) and Rural Roads
Improvement (Tongatapu)
(iii)  Tonga TelecoLmmnications Commission:
Subproject No. 5 - Telecommunications System Upgrading
('Eua Island)
1. Ministry of Labour, Commerce and Industries GMLCI)
63.        MLCI   implemented   the   previous   SIC   subprojects
satisfactorily-' and will act as Implementing Agency for the two SIC
subprojects to be financed under the Multiproject. The Secretary of
MLCI will be responsible for overall implementation of the subprojects
and for coordination with other Government ministries and agencies.
The Estate Manager, who is responsible for the day-to-day operation
of the existing SIC in Tongatapu, will help implement the proposed SIC
subprojects. He is assisted by an accountant, two secretaries and two
supporting staff. The Estate Manager will report to the Secretary,
MLCI, who will continue to be responsible for the promotional and
marketing aspects of the SIC and will also be responsible for planning
an# implementing development of future SIC's throughout the country.
NCI has the capacity to satisfactorily implement both the SIC
Expansion on Tongatapu and the SIC Establishment on Vava'u.
2.  Ministry of Works (MOW)
64.       MOW is responsible for the planning, design, construction
and maintenance of practically all public works in Tonga, including
1/  The Government has agreed to inform the Bank of any changes in
key personnel In these Implementing Agencies. Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, para 3.
2/   Small Industries Centre Project, Loan No. 335-TON(SF), approved
in December 1977, and the SIC expansion subprojects included in
the Multiproject Loans No. 435-TON(SP), approved in December
1979, and No. 540-TON(SF), approved in November 1981.



26
roads, ports, airports, and public buildings. MOW's operations also
include  plant  and  vehicle  maintenance   for  other  government
departments, and operation of a concrete block manufacturing plant.
MOW has been the Implementing Agency for several subprojects under the
Bank's earlier Multiproject loans.
65.       The Ministry is headed by the Minister of Works and has five
sections in Tongatapu, covering administration, road construction and
maintenance   ,   government   stores,   mechanical   services,   and
architectural building services. Permanent works supervision units
have  been  set up  on  the  islands  of Vava'u, Ha'apai,  'Eua and
Niuatoputapu and Niuafo'ou. These sections, which operate under the
Director of Works, had an established staff level of 193 at the end of
1984. In addition, four professional grade, three supervisory and
two technical training staff were provided under external aid
programs.   MOW's construction capacity was strengthened following
receipt of construction equipment provided under EEC aid.   Plant and
equipment continue to be located in 'Eua and Vava'u to allow work to
be carried out on these islands.
66.        MOW's Architectural Divisior., which  is  responsible  for
construction and maintenaqp of all Government buildings, consists of
a  Governfnt  Architect,-   three  local  architects,  a  quantity
surveyor,- and three trainee quantity surveyors. It also includes a
number of building foremen and building tradesmen. The Roads Division
is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the road network,
including construction of agricultural and community roads. The Roads
Division is also responsible for coral quarry production and for
implementing special projects. In recent years this has involved a
considerable amount of work on the Queen Salote Wharf project and on
foreshore protection works in Nuku'alofa. The Roads Division has one
structural engineer, three engineers trained at Lae University of
Technology In Papue New Guinea and six overseers and foremen. NOW has
the capacity to satisfactorily handle the improvament of Nafanus
Harbor on 'Eua Island, the construction of Agricultural Access Roads
on 'Eua Island, and the improvement of Rural Roads on Tongatapu.
3. TonMa Telecommunications Commission (TTC)
67.        TTC  was  established  as  a  semi  autonomous  goverwnent
statutory body on 1 July 1984. Previous to that it operated as a
Government  department.  TTC  is  responsible  for  the  operation,
maintenance and development of the domestic telecommunications system
in the country.  TTC's Board consists of the Prime Minister as
Chairman, the Minister of Fimnace, the Secretary to Government, TTC's
General Manager and three representative subscribers. TTC's General
Manager is the former TTD Superintendent and most TTD staff and
persomnnl transferred to TTC when It was formed. The General Manager
is supported by a Finance and Administration Manager, an Engineering
Branch Manager and a Traffic Officer. Further, a Training Manager,
responsible for TTC's Technical Training Center, is due to be
appointed to assist the General Manager.
I/   Thse posts are currently vacant.



27
68.       The  Finance and Administration Manager is assisted  by  an
Accountant and a Personnel Officer, and the Engineering Branch Manager
is assisted by five Controllers responsible respectively for Northern
Operations, the Radio Section, Internal Plant, External Plant  and
the Planning Section. At present, TTC's total staff, including
administration, technical and service personnel, is 166. There is one
New Zealander expert acting as the Finance and Administration Manager,
and two Australian experts who act as the Engineering Branch Manager
and  the Radio Section Controller.  The caliber of TTC's technical
staff is continually improving.  Further steps have been taken to
ensure that relevant upgrading courses will be available and that
Tongan personnel receive the appropriate technical qualifications and
management1rkills to enable them to ev-ntually take over all senior
positions.-
69.        The  Bank-financed  Telecommunications Project  [Loan  No.
146-TON(SF), approved in November 1973] and the telecommunications
subproject financed under the first Multiproject Loan [Loan No.
435-TON(SF), approved in December 19791 were both implemented by TTD
and its performance was satisfactory.
C.   Procurement
70.       Procurement of all Bank-financed goods and services for the
Multiproject will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement, by the implementing agencies concern>
under  the  overall  coordination  of  the  Project Coordinator.-
Specifically, with the exception of minor items, procurement of goods
and services for the various subprojects will be as follows (see
Appendix  7 for a breakdown of the amount of 3Phe project to be
implemented under various procurement procedures):-
Subproject No. 1 (Expansion of SIC, Tongatapu)
1.   Grading and site preparation ....................  ,A
2.   Construction of buildings .......e...........   LCB
3.  Utilities      . . . ... ..    ..  ...... .........   FA
Subproject No. 2 (Establishment of SIC, Vava'u)
1.   Grading and site preparation ....................   FA
2.  Construction of buildings                            LCB
3.  Utilities ...........FA
11 An agreement has recently been signed with Telecom Australia
which provides for technical training of TTC staff.
2/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 2, and Schedule 5, paras 1 and 2.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paras 4(a) and 5 to 8. LCB - Local
Competitive Bidding, FA - Force Account, ICB - International
Competitive Bidding, IS - International Shopping, PP - Proprietary
Procurement.



28
Subproject No. 3 (Construction of Nafanua Harbour, 'Eua Island)
Improvement of the harbor    ........................  ICB
Subproject No. 4 (Construction of Agricultural Access Roads, 'Eua
Island)
Road construction .0......   .A.........      ....   FA
Subproject No. 5 (Telecomnunications System Upgrading, 'Eua
Island)
1.  Automatic exchange, radio and multiplex
equipment, and training ..........................  PP
2.  All other equipment ..........**.*o.....*****e ..  IS
3.   Construction of Exchange Building      ................  LCB
4.   Laying of cable and connection of lines    ..........  FA
Sub-project No. 6 (Construction of Rural Roads, Tongatapu)
Road construction ........*.   ............     .* .. .   FA
71.       The utility connections for Subproject Hos. 1 and 2 (SIC
Expansion, Tongatapu, and SIC Establishment, Vava'u) will be
undertaken by TTC, Tonga Water Board and Tongs Electric Power Board.
The cable laying for Subproject No. 5 (Telecommunications System
Upgrading, 'Eua Island) will be undertaken by TTC. All the remaining
force account work will be undertaken by MOW. In all these cases, the
size, nature and  location of the works  make them unsuitable for
construction  under   competitive   bidding   procedures.   Foreign
contractors would not be interested in these jobs, while Tongan
contractors are not equipped to carry out this kind of work. TTC, the
Water Board, the Electric Power Board and MOW, on the other hand, do
have the necessary  construction facilities and will be able to
undertake the works expeditiously and at reasonable cost. About 30
per cent of the base cost of the Multiproject will be carried out
under force account.
72.       To ensure that the force account work on Subproject Nos. 4
and 6 to be undertaken by MOW is based on a satisfactory record of
actual costs Incurred, it. has been agreed that MOW will establish an
engineering charging system with respect to these subprojects which is
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank prior to any disbursements
being made 1from the loan account to meet the cost of these
subprojects.-   The consultants to be appointed under the technical
assistance component of the Multiproject will assist MOW in
implementing this charging system. To ensure this does not lead to
any implementation delays, the consultants are beitg recruited under
the Bank's advance recruitment procedures  (see para 93).  It Is
expected that establishment of the engineering charging system will
have been completed by September 1986.
17  Loan Agrem_nt, Schedule 3, para 5(il).



29
73.       The Government requested the use of LCB !or the packepes of
civil works iuteutiied for procurement by this method in Subproject
Nos. 1, 2 and 5. This method is appropriate since tihe size and nature
of the work is such that foreign contractors are unlikely to be
interested in biddiog; however, local construction facllities are
available at reasonable cost and are efficient and have adequate
capacity  (see para  34).   The Government will use  its usual LCB
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank, to select contractors.
74.        Proprietary  procurement  is  appropriate  only  for  the
tpecitic equipment so indicated in Subproject No. 5. In these cases,
proprietary procuremeut would belp standardize uew equipment with
existing equipment, minimize maintenance problems and avoid the need
to  keep an excessive  stock of spare parts.  The amount of the
M!ilLiproject to be procured on a proprietary basis amounts to just
over ten per cent of the base costs.  International Shopping is
likewise justified for the equipment Identified for procuremnt by
this method In Subproject No.5 since the package  are not large ew4h
to  attract  suppliers  under  international  competitive  biddting
procedures. As in past multiprojects, procurement of midor ltems,
which in this case mean items costing less than US$10,000 equivalent,
may be carried out by the implviueau.  agencl concerned without prior
approval from the Bank.
D. Design, Construction Supervision and Other Consulting Services
75.       The Government requested technical assistance to finance all
foreign consulting services (see paras 91-93) other than those
financed  by  ADAB  under  parallel  financing  arrangemets.   The
arrangements for provision of the remaining engineering services are
as follows: (1) the demarcation of boundarles, site surveys and
preparation of contour maps for Subproject Nos. 1 and 2 (SIC
Expansion, Tongatapu, and SIC Establishment, Vava'u) will be
undertaken by the Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources
before the consultants to be appolnted under the Bank technical
assistance for preparatil o. the U Jte Master Plans (see para 93)
start their fieldwork;- (ii) MOW will provide construction
supervision for the force account work to be dome under Subproject
Nos. 1 and 2 (SIC Expansion, Tongatapu, and SIC Establishbent, Vava'u);
(iii) MOW will evaluate and let tenders under LCB procedures and provide
construction supervision for the buildings to be constructed under
Subproject Nos. I and 2 (SIC Expanelon, Tongatapu, and SIC Establishment,
Vava'u); (iv) the necessary topographic and marine surveys needed for
the design of Subproject No. 3 (Nafanua Harbour Iprovemant, 'Eua
lsland) will be carried out by the Ministry of Lands, Survey and
Natural Resources and HWD wore  the consultants to be fInanced by
ADAB start their fieldwork;- (v) MOW will evaluate and let tenders
under ICB procedures for Subproject No. 3 (Nafanua Harbour Improvemmnt,
'Eua Island); (vi) the Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources
will set out the rights-of-way for all roads to be constructed under
Subprojey No. 4 (Construction of Agricultural Access Roads, 'Eu
Island);- and (vii) MOW will design and provide construction
1/   Technical Assistance Agreement (for Multiproject part), Schedule 3.
2/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 11.
3    Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 12.



30
supervision for the force account work to be carried out under
Subproject Nos. 4 and 6 (Construction of Agricultural Access Roads,
'Eua  Island,  and  Improvement  of  Rural  Roads,   Tongatapu).   The
exchange building to be constructed as part of Subproject No. 5
(Telecommunications System Upgrading, 'Eua Island) will be designed,
and the ensuing construction will be supervised, by competent local
arehitect. to be recruited by TTC.
E.   Implementation Status of Previous Bank Projects
76.        The   Bank's   first   loan   to   Tongs   was  for   a
Telecommunicetions Project,   Loan  No.   146-TON(SF),  approved  in
November   1973.    A  Project Performance Audit Report  (PPAR) was
circulated to the Board in July 1982 whieh noted that although there
was an Initial ¢qlay caused by revision and curtailment of the scope
of the project,- the main physical and financial objectives of the
project were su87tantially met.  The financial performance of the
executing agency- was better than expected and there was significant
organizational improvement, particularly on the accconting side.
77.       The first Multiproject loan, Loan No. 435-TON(SF), approved
in December 1979, was examined in a PPAR circalated to the Board in
April  1984.   The main issues noted in tte PPAR were:   (i) the
Multiproject loan modality helped the developmezt of the Bank's South
Pacific DNCs, and in this case resulted in significant administrative
cost savings; (ii) the project as a whole experienced a cost overrun
of about 17 per cent and implementation was delayed by 18 months;
(ifti) a clearer definition of the Consultants' responsibilities in the
Terms of Reference, combined with more careful selection of
consultants, mlght have reduced implementation problems; (iv) the
civil works carried out by the Ministry of Works (MOW) under force
account stretched its available manpower and equipment capacity and
this led to delays in construction of subprojects; and (v) the
executing at* implementation arrangements were judged to be
satisfactory.-
78.        The first loan to help establish the SIC in Tongatapu, Loan
No. 335-TON(SF) approved in December 1977, was examined in a PPAR
circulated to the Board in December 1984. The PPAR noted that: (i)
the success of the project was attributable to comprehensive project
preparation, provision of consulting services for implementation and
operation, and judicious administration by MLCI staff; (il) there was
a cost overrun of about 12 per cent, but this was mostly due to the
higher-than-expected cost of site development and infrastructure
1/ Due to a large cost overrun caused by an unusual escalation In
prices.
2/   The Telegraphs & Telophones Department.
3/   The Ministry of Finance was nominated as Executing Agency with
the  Secretary   for  Finance  as  Project  Coordinator.   The
tmplementing agencies for the separate subprojects were MOW,
the Telegraphs & Telephones Department, MLCI, the Ministry of
Health, and the Tonga Water Board.



31
development;y (iii) implementation was delayed by 10 months due to
a shortage of experienced engineers; and (iv) the Bank should continue
to monitor the progress of the SIC to ensure the project achieves a
no-profit no-loss financial position.
79.       The main lessons learned from implement dtion of past Bank
projects in Tonga is that:  (i) the multiproject lending modality is
an appropriate way of supporting the Government's development program;
(ii) the appointment of the Ministry of Finance as Executing Agency,
together with implementing agencies for separate subprojects, has
worked successfully in previous loans; (iII) consultants play a key
role in helping implement subprojects on time, and their effectiveness
is improved if the Terms of Reference are well-drafted and the
consultants are carefully selected; and (iv) MOW has limited capacity
to undertake force account work and subprojects must consequently be
formulated so as not to exceed this capacity.
F.   Iplemntation Schdule
80.        The Multiproject as a whole vill be implemented over a
period of nearly three years, in accordance with the implementation
schedule (Appendix 8). The implementation schedules for individual
subprojects vary, depending on the particular circumstances of each
subproject.
G.   Land Acquisition
81.       There are no major issues with regard to the acquisition of
land. The land required for expansion of the SIC on Tongatapu is
already leased by the Government and is in its possession.   The land
required for establishment of the SIC on Vava'u is owned by the
Government and, although the three sites considered  suitable are
subject to the rights of third parffes, the Government has already
taken steps to repossess one of them.-   The site needed for improving
Nafanua I,rbour lies in the foreshore area and is already owned by the
Government, the Agricultural Access Roads on 'Eua Island will all
follow established rights-of-way, and the Rural Roads on Tongatapu
also all follow establisted rights-of-way. The land required for the
telephone exchange on 'RuN Island is owned by the Government and is
already occupied by a wooden exchange building owned by TTC; all
telephone lines follow estabLished rights-of-way within existing road
reserves. The Government ha agreed to ensure that all lands, rights
in lands, and other rights and privileges required for the subprojects
will be acquired and3lade available on a timely basis to avoid any
implementation delay.-
1/   The PCR consldered that alternative designs for the
electrification and sewerage components could have reduced this
cost.
2/  Leasing, or making other final definitive arrangements for a
suitable site is a condition of Bank financing this Subproject.
Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, para 5(i).
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 7.



32
H.  Operation and Msintena$ce
82.      The Government has agreed to ensure that the equipment and
facilities provided, constructed or upgraded under the Multiproject
will be adequately operated,  waged, mintained and repaired in
accordance with sound practices.-   For this purpose, the Government
will make available, promptly as needed -- either directly or as sole
shareholder of TTC - sufficient funds and other resources required
for the proper oration and maintenance of the Multiproject's equipmene
and facilities.-   In particular:  (1) MLCI will be responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the SIC Expansion on Tongatapu and
the SIC Establishment on Vava'u; (il) HWD within MOP will be
responsible for the operation of Nafanua Harbour which is to be
improved under the Project; (iii) MOW will be responsible for
maintenance of Nafanua Harbour and for all the roads on 'Eua Island
and on Tongatapu to be constructed, or improved under the Multiproject;
and (iv) TTC will be responsible ¢or operation and maintenance of all
telecomunications facilities to be upgraded under the Multiproject.
83.       The Government agreed that part of the technical assistance
for the Project (see para 91) will include a study of the rental
structure of the SIC plots and buildings. The study will identify
suitable means for incieasing rents at the existing SIC on To<sgatapu
and setting them at the new SIC on Vava'u so as to ensure that in the
long term rental revg?ues cover costs, particularly the cost of
building construction.-  It was agreed that, shortly after submission
of the consultant's draft final report on this matter, the Government
and SIC representatives would meet with the Bank to review the report
and would jointly develop revisions to the rental scheme for the
Tongatapu SIC, including a phaed program for increasing rental fee
levels to ensure that the SIC will operate on a no-profit no-loss
basis. The no-profit no-loss principle requires the setting of rental
fees so that tenants at the SIC pay enough to permit full4yffovery of
all capital costs and operating and maintenance expenses.- - The new
Vava'u SIC Olls, over the long term, also operate on a no-profit no-
loss basis.-
1/   Loan Agreement, Sections 4.01 and 4.04.
2/ Loan Agreement, Section 4.02(a). The annual incremental cost to
the Government of operating the Multiproject facilities is
negligible. The two SICs are to b( operated on a no-profit no-
loss baesi (see para 83); the tar ffs for use of coastal ports
are to be revised to recover costs f operation and maintenance
of  Nafanua  Harbour  (see  para  84)    The  telecommunications
improvements are expected to earn a reasonable rate of return.
The agricultural access roads, on the other hand, will increase
road maintenance costs by about $18,000 per annum, but this is
expected to be largely offset by the savings in road maintenance
costs associated with improvement of rural roads on Tongatapu.
3/   This is to ensure that potential occupants are not discouraged
from erecting their own factory sheds.
4/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 9.
5/ When the SIC in Tongatapu was first established under Loan No.
335-TON(SF), approved in December 1977, it was agreed that the
basic financial policy should be to operate on a no-profit
no-loss basis.
6/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 10.



33
84.       The Government has also agreed to institute levies, or
tariffs for use of coastal port facilities in Tonga which will be set
at levels  which:  (i) are, by completion of the Nafanua Harbour
Improvement, adequate to recover at least the cost of operation and
maintenance of Nafanua Harbour; and (ti) are, within a period to be
agreed upon by the Government and the Oak, adequate to recover an
agreed-upon percentage of capital costs.-   In the case of roads, the
Government indicated that the current system of user charges was
an appropriate subject for review and that rationalization of such
charges was of importance; the 9prernment agreed to keep the Bank
informed on progress in this area.- No specific agreement was made
with TTC regarding tariffs, since they already operate on a commercial
basis and adjust their tariffs from time to tim to ensure that
revenues cover costs.
I.   Reports, Accounts and Audit
85.       The Project Coordinator, assisted by the Project Managers
for the telecommunications, harbor and roads subprojects, will be
responsible for monitoring the progress of the Multiproject and will
furnish to thy, Bank quarterly progress reports on subproject
implementation.- To facilitate post-evaluation of the Multiproject,
the Project Coordinator will also submit to the Bank, within three
months of the physical completion of the Multiproject, a report
covering details of impl nentation and operation of each subproject,
the cost of the various subprojects, and the performance 4?f
obligations under, and accomplishment of the purposes, of the Loan.-
86.       The Government will establish and maintain separate accounts
for: (i) all expenditures incurred under the Multiproject; and (ii)
for each subproject. These accounts and related financial statements,
will be audited annually in accordance with sound auditing standards
by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The unaudited accounts will be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the
financial year to which they relate, and the audited accounts and
related financial statements will be furnished to the BSank not later
than UV, months after the end of the financial year to which they
relate.-
J.   Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
87.       In order to assess the overall impact of improving Nafanua
Harbour and constructing agricultural access roads on 'Eua Island, the
Government has agreed to establish a system for recording the volume
and type of goods shipped through the harbor, as well as the number
of passengers using it. Base line figures giving a representative
one year's traffic flow will be collected before work on the harbor
commences, and similai figures will be collected immediately after It
is fully operational.-  In the case of the roads to be improved on
1/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 15.
2/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, pars 16.
3/  Loan Agreement, Section 4.07(b).
74/  Loan Agreement, Section 4.07(c).
3/  Loan Agreement, Section 4.06(b).
6/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, pars 17.



34
Tongatapu, the Government has agreed to conduct traffic surveys prior
to improvement of all roads considered for improvement, and on each
road improvf? under the Multiproject, promptly following such
improvement.-
K. Considerations Regarding the Environment and Women
88.       The  *fxisting SIC in Tongatapu has given careful attention
to the environment. The building regulations require that developers
comply with the following two conditions: (i) no tree with a trunk
diamete. exceeding 150 mm may be removed without the prior consent of
the Site Office; and (ii) where such trees are removed, they shall be
replaced by two other trees of a species recommended by the Site
Office. The substance of these conditions -- namely, the protection
of mature trees -- is reflected in the Terms of Reference for the
consultants  preparing   the  Master  Plans  for expansion of the
Tongatapu SIC and establishment of the Vava'u SIC; in the case of the
new SIC on Vava'u, the Terms of Reference also require the consultants
to pay special attention in the design of buildings to the local
building vernacular (see Appendix 9). In the case of Nafanua Harbour
improvement, the proposed Terms of Reference for the consultants
require that they plan and design the harbor facilities in a way that
minimizes adverse environmental impacts; the Terms of Reference also
require that they take account of an environmental impact study
prepared in connection with the earlier ADAB-financed reconnaisance
study for the harbor (see Appendix 10). Although the agricultural
access roads to be constructed on 'Eua Island pass through virgin
bush, the only trees affected are of the small, scrub variety and the
formation width is being kept to a minimum (four m) to avoid
unnecessary use of agricultural land. The Terms of Reference for the
consultants preparing the roads to be improved on Tongatapu, require
that they ensure that all necessary precautions are taken to avoid
adverse environmental impacts (see Appendix 9). The telephone lines
to be installed on 'Eua Island will all be buried; this is standard
practice to prevent damage by cyclones.
89.       The employees working on the existing SIC in Tongatapu are
mostly women, and it is expected that the two SIC subprojects will
further increase female employment; otherwise the Multiproject has
no gender-specific implications.
L. Project Administration
90.       The Bank's headquarters staff will engage and supervise the
work of the consultants to be recruited under the Bank's technical
assistance and will review and approve the individual subproject
appraisal  reports  to  ensure  they  are  technically  sound  and
economically viable. After each subproject appraisal report has been
approved, the Bank's South Pacific Regional Office (SPRO) will be
responsible  for  all  Project  Administration  matters  and   for
preparation of the PCR for the Multiproject. The Bank's headquarters
staff will assist SPRO on technical matters.
I/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 18.



35
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
91.       Implementation of the Multiproject is being supported by two
types of technical assistance: one financed by the Bank and the other
by ADAB under parallel financing arrangements. The Bank technical
assistance will be used to assist the Government in: (i) establishing
unit rates for road construction work undertaken by MOW; (ii)
preparing Master Plans for expansion of the SIC site on Tongatapu and
establishment of a new SIC site on Vava'u, including preparation of
specifications and quantities to enable this work to be carried out on
a force account basis; (iii) revising designs for the factory and
nursery buildings to be erected on the SIC site on Tongatapu and
preparing specifications and bid documents to enable the buildings to
be constructed under LCB procedures; (iv) preparing designs and bid
docuwAents for the workshop/factory buildings to be erected on the SIC
site on Vava'u to enable the. buildings to be constructed under LCB
procedures; (v) undertaking a review of the rental fee structure of
the existing SIC on Tongatapu and recommending a revised rental fee
structure to cover both SICs; (vi) reviewing the Governntnt's
indicative five-year road development plan for Tongatapu, establishing
investment priorities and preparing an initial package of roads for
financing under the Multiproject; and (vii) undertaking an in-depth
analysis of the Government's interest rate policies, examining
alternative interest rate scenarios, and making recommendations for
changes in interest rate policies to make them more effective. The
outline Terms of Reference for this techn-Ical assistance are attached
as Appendix 9. Items (i), (v), and (vi) above will make an important
contribution to institutional strengthening of the implementing
agencies.
92.       The detailed engineering and construction supervision for
Nafanua Harbour will be financed by ADAB. The Government has agreed
to ensure close collaboration between the consultants, MOW, HWD
within MOF, and the Bank. In particular, the Government has agreed to
submit to the Bank forj its concurrence a copy of the consultants'
Terms of Reference before proposals are invited from consultants and
to provide to the Bank copies of all of the consultants' reports and,
within one month of completion of the final report, to schedule a
joint meeting between the Governmyt, the Consultants, ADAB and the
Bank to review the final report.- A copy of the outline Terms of
Reference prepared by the Mission to guide preparation of the detailed
Terms of Reference by the Government is attached as Appendix 10.
93.        It is estimated that about  12 man-months of consulting
services   in   engineering   costing,   architectural   design,   cost
accounting, rental policy, transport economics, and interest rate
policies will be required to assist the Government and MOW in
undertaking the tasks listed in para 91 above.   The Ministry of
Finance will be Executing Agency for the technical assistance which
will be carried out under the direction of the Secretary for Finance.
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 11.



36
The consultzuts for this technical assistance will be engaged in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. The
consultants are being reyauited under the Bank's  dvance recruitment
procedures (see para 72).-   The total cost of the consulting services
is estimated at $237,000, of which $221,000 is the foreign exchange
cost. A detailed breakdown of the total cost is given in Appendix 11.
The foreign exchange cost includes the cost of consultants'
remuneration,   per   diem,   international   travel,   international
communications, report preparation  and  contingencies.   The  local
curroncy cost of the technical assistance Is estimated at $16,000
equivalent and includes the cost of office space, secretarial
facilities, local comuunications facilities, land transport for site
visits, and counterpart staff.   It is proposed that the  foreign
exchange cost of the technical assistance amounting to $221,000 be
financed by the Bank as a grant. The Government has agreed to provide
the local currency cost of the technical assistance. The Government
has also agreed to undertake preparation of boundary and topographic
surveys, and to prepare contoured O te plans for both SICs before the
consultants start their fieldwork.-
1/   Advsance Action for Recruitment of Consultants, IN. 47-86.
j/   Technical Assistance Agreement (Multiproject part), Schedule 3.



37
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFlTS
A.   General
94.       The multiproject lending modality is designed to assist the
Government to implement small, high-priority subprojects which are
too small to be financed under separate Bank loans. The subprojects
selected for inclusion In this Multiproject support the Government's
objectives  of:   (i)  diversifying  the  economy  and  developing
manufacturing; (ii) encouraging regional development (particularly
the   development   of   islands  outside  of  Tongatapu);  and  (iii)
developing agriculture and forestry. In designing the Multiproject,
due attention has  been  paid  to Government  priorities,  technical
feasibility, economic viability and state of project preparation (see
para 44), and the capacity of MOW to carry out civil works by force
account  (see para  79).  The  Multiproject also aims at promoting
institurton building end self-reliance, and at encouraging the private
sector.-
95.       The subprojects are located on Tongatapu, Vava'u and 'Eua
Island; these areas together contain about 88 per cent of the
country's population. The SlCs are located in the largest two towns
-- Nuku'alofa on Tongatapu with a population of about 28,000 and
Neiafu on Vava'u with one of about 4,000 -- and should make an
important contribution to supporting development of industry and
increasing employment in these towns. 'Eua Island is still relatively
undeveloped,  and  considerable   potential  exists  for  increasing
agricultural output and -- in the longer term -- for developing
forestry;  the  subprojects  located on  this  island should make a
significant contribution to such development.
B. Financial/Economic Evaluation
96.       Full details of the cost of the subprojects and of the
benefits to be expected from them will only be available after they
have been appraised under the technical assistance component of the
Project. However, the Mission made some preliminary estimates of the
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for Subproject No. 3 (Nafanua
Harbour Improvement, 'Eua Island) and Subproject No. 4 (Construction
of Agricultural Access Roads, 'Eua Island). The estimated EIRR for
?#afanua Harbour, which has been calculated conservatively, is 10.4 per
cent which is considered satisfactory, and the EIRR for the
agricultural access roads is estimated at 14.1 per cent which is also
considered satisfactory. The methodology and assumptions used in the
economic evaluation are set out in Appendix 12.  No Separate EIRR
estimates have been made for the remaining Subprojects, although in
the case of Subproject No. 6 (Rural Roads Improveient, Tongatapu), the
Terms of Reference for the consultants (Appendix 9, Part A, item 5)
requires them to select road sections that give an EIRR of at least 9
per cent.
1/  By expanding the Tongatapu SIC, establishing the Vava'u SIC, by
doing a large amount of construction work under LCB procedures
and by using local architects in the design of the building for
the telephone exchange on 'Eua Island.



38
C.  Risks
97.      The major risk associated with the Multiproject is that
implementation of subprojects may be delayed.  To  iiimiSse the risk
associated with acquisition of land rights for the Vava'u SIC, the
Government has already initiated action to reposess the site. To
minimise delays during preparation of the subproject appraisal
reports, technical assistance is being provided to assist the
Implementing Agencies to prepare these reports. Technical Assistance
is also being provided by ADAB under parallel financing arrangeomets
to facilitate implementation of Subproject Jo. 3 (Nafanua Harbour
Improvement, 'Eua Island).



. 39
PART B - THE LINE OF CREDIT
III. THE PROPOSED LINE OF CREDIT
A.   Objective end Scope
98.       TDB is the most important source of long-term development
funds in Tonga.  The Government expects TDB to continue to play an
Important role in the development of the Kingdom by helping to promote
and finance high-priority projects in the agriculture and industrial
sectors. The primary objective of the proposed line of credit is to
provide TDB with financial resources and technical assistance to enable
It to continue fulfilling its role in promoting economic development
activities and to improve the level of efficiency of its operations. In
addition, an advisory technical assistance will be provided to the
Government for a review of its interest rate policies and to formulate
policy recommendations promoting development of the banking sector.
99.       A general credit line is envisaged for TDB, which will onlend
most of the proposed loan to small-scale enterprises.
B.   The Proposed Loan
1.  Loan Amount, Borrower and Executin  agency
100.      On the basis of TDB's additional estimated foreign currency
requirements of US$1.3 million during FY1986-1987, it is proposed that a
third Bank loan of US$1 million equivalent be extended to the Kingdom of
Tonga (the Borrower) for relending to TDB (the Executing Agency) under a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bankl/.  The Loan is
proposed to be made from the Special Funds resources of the Bank under
the standard terms and conditions. The Borrower will bear the foreign
exchange risk2/.
2.  Main Features
a. PuErose
101.      TDB will use the proceeds of the proposed loan to make
subloans to fiance the foreign exchange costs of specific development
projects in Tonga3/. The tentative sectoral allocation of the proposed
loan is:  agriculture, 50 per cent; industry, 30 per cent and services
including transportation and tourism, 20 per cent.  The subprojects
financed will meet TDB's normal evaluation criteria as found in its
Policy Statement4/. When approving subloans of $10,000 or more, TDB
will ensure that  the subproject  satisfies  the Kingdon's  laws and
regulations as they relate to the preservation of the environment/.
1/ L.A. Section 3.01(b).
2/   L.A. Schedule 6, para l(c).
3/   L.A. Schedule 1, Part B.
41  Appendix 16.
3/  P.A. Schedule, para 6.



40
b. Utilization
102.      The closing date for submission by TDB of applications for
subloans for approval/authorization of withdrawal will be three years
after the effective date of the proposed losull.  The closing date for
withdrawals will be four years after the effective date of the loan2/.
c. Amortization Schedule
103.      A fixed amortization schedule, as was the case in the previous
two loans, is proposed between the Borrower and TDB.  The maturity
period for the loan to TDB will be 15 years including a grace period of
six years3/. A flied repayment schedule with a relatively long grace
period Is justified in view of the following factors: (i) it will allow
TDB to recycle the principal repayments received from its sub-borrowers
for further leading4/, and (ii) it will strengthen TDB's resource
position.
104.      The sub-borrower's repayment terms to TDB will not exceed 15
years including a grace period not exzeeding three years5/.
d. Onlendlag Rate
105.      It is proposed that the borrowers' relending rate to TDB for
the proposed loan be 3 per cent per annum6/ as in the previous loans.
This will give ThE an interest rate spread of 5.5 per cent based on an
estimted projected average onlending rate of 8.5 per cent. TDB will
consult the Bank before effecting any changes in its onlending rates.
In particular, In the event that Tonga's interest rate policy, law or
regulations are amended to allow higher lending rates to be charged by
TDB, the onlending rate will be reviewed and revised in consultation
with the Bank7/.
106.      The lower relending rate from the borrower to TDB is needed to
maintain TDB's flasncial position. The lower rate will ensure adequate
Interest spread to cover the high administrative costs incurred by TDB's
beavy lnvolvement with small loan projects (T$1,000 and below).
Furthermore, as a relatively new DFI, TDB needs to bull4 up its
provisions and retained earnings to an adequate level. In view of the
above, the Mission believes1 that the three per cent releading rate is
appropriate, although a higher relending rate should be applied in the
event that the Government's interest rate regulations are amended.
17    .. Section 2.02  c).
Ti/  L.A. Section 3.07 (Il).
SI   L.A. Schedule 6, para 1(b).
'/   P.A. Schedule, pare 4.
T/   P.A. Section 2.04(b).
L/   L.A. Schedule 6, para 1(a).
7/   L.A. Schedule 6, para 2; and P.A. Schedule, pare 2.



41
e. Subloan Interest Rates
107.      TDB's Interest rates on subloans vill be charged in accordance
with TDB's current interest rate schedule. These interest rates arel/:
(i)  Top  priority  sectors  (agrlculture,  fisheries,  livestock,
natural resources) - 6 per cent
(ii)  High    priority    sectors    (export-oriented    industries,
manufacturing, raw material processing and tourism) - 8 per
cent
(iii)  All other industrial and comercial loans - 10 per cent
108.      TDB will consult the Bank prior to effecting any changes In
Its interest rates2/. Furthermore, TDB will review its interest rates
immediately following any changes in the Government' s interest rate
regulations (see para 105).
f. Free Limit
109.      Considering the size distribution of subloans under the second
Bank loan, only one of which has been above the free limit, the
prevailing free limit of $40,000 is proposed to be maintained for the
proposed loan3/.
g.  Max:mum Size of Subloans
110.      In order to ensure a balanced distribution of subloans, TDB
will not make any subloan' In an amount exceeding $250,0004/. TDB's
policy statement restricts its maximum commitment in any enterprlse to
20 per cent of its equity. This limit amounted to about T$0.72 million
($0.52 million equivalent) as of 31 December 1985.
h. Reimbursement of Expenditures
111.      Reimbursement of expenditures incurred up to 120 days prior to
the receipt of a subloan application by the Bank will be allowed5/, as
under the previous two Bank loans,
i. Procurement
112.      TDB will satisfy the Bank that the procurement procedures
adopted  by  individual  sub-borrowers  under  the  proposed  loan  are
appropriate in the circumstances6/.
17 P.A. Schedule, para 2.
2/   L.A. Schedule 6, para 2; and P.A. Schedule, para 2.
3/  P.A. Section 2.02.
7J   P.A. Schedule, para 3.
5/   P.A. Section 2.03.
Ti  L.A. Schedule 4. par& 9.



42
j. Withdrawal
113.      The second Bank loan provided for withdrawal of 75 per cent of
cost of off-the-shelf purchase of machinery and equipment as indirect
foreign exchange cost, where procurement costs were $50,000 or less when
the foreign exchange cost could not be precisely determined, and 60 per
cent of total contract value for building construction projects. It is
proposed to maintain these percentages in the proposed projectl/.
k. Data Monitoring
114.      TDB  will  compile  relevant  subproject  performance  data,
including relevant information for completed sub-projects for which it
has provided a subloan in excess of $10,0002/.
1. Quarterly Reports
115.      TDB will provide to the Bank quarterly reports giving details
of its operations, financial position, resource position, arrears and
collection performance, and institutional developments within three
months after the end of each quarter3/.
C.   The Proposed Technical Assistance
116.      The technical assistance the Bank initially extended to the
Government to establish TDB provided basic institution-building and
management in its initial stages.  In connection with the first Bank
loan for TDB, a second technical assistance grant was provided to
re-engage the consultant as Managing Director for a 20-month period. In
connection with the second Bank loan, further technical assistance was
provided to assist TDB in developing its economic evaluation
capabilities.    While  TDB's  institutional  aspects  are  generally
satisfactory and its management is entirely localized, it is considered
that TDB requires further technical assistance to upgrade specific
institutional aspects that would promote the increased efficiency of
TDB's operations. The Government and TDB have requested advisory and
operational  technical  assistance  as  follows:   assistance  with  the
computerization of TDB's accounting system and assistance in reviewing
TDB's personnel management policies and procedures.
117.      TDB's accounting system is at present manually operated.  At
31 December 1985, TDB's accounting system was handling transactions from
almost 5,000 loan clients. For most of these loans, interest is charged
and Installments are paid on a monthly basis. Furthermore, transactions
are conducted at each of TDB's three regional offices as well as at
headquarters. As a result, a relatively large volume of transactions
must be handled each month. The current accounting system is working at
1/ L.A. Schedule 3, pawa 7.
~/   P.A. Schedule, para 5.
sI   P.A. Section 3.05(b).



43
capacity to maintain up-to-date accounting records, and it is not
capable of generating timely and accurate manegement reports on
important aspects such as arrears and the performance of the various
profit-centers.   Moreover,  the high volume of manual  input  to the
accounting system results in a degree of inaccuracy. During mid-1983,
consultants funded by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency
(JICA) undertook initial systems specification and systems design for a
computerized accounting and loan administration system for TDB. On the
basis of the report prepared by the JICA team, the Mission estimated
that the total cost of purchasing, installing and implementing a
computerized accounting system for TDB would be approximately $165,000,
including the purchase of computer hardware, software and equipment for
approximately $35,000, and that the time required for installing such a
system would L- zpproximately eight man-months. It is proposed that the
Bank provide technical assistance in the amount of $125,000 to fund the
foreign exchange portion of the consulting costs component of the
project with the balance of the financing for the purchase of computer
hardware, software and equipment to be arranged by TDB.
118.      The Mission found that TDB's policies and procedures relating
to staff remuneration matters, staffing levels and the determination of
staff training and development needs have been developed in an ad hoc
manner. As a result, there are deficiencies in staff resources in some
areas of lDB's operations and under utilized staff resources in other
areas. In particular, there is no centralized responsibility for staff
recruitment that would allow all staffing decisions to be clearly made
within the context of pre-determined budgets, staffing requirements and
staff development plans. It is proposed that the Bank provide technical
assistance in the amount of $35,000 to fund two man-months of consulting
services to review TDB's current personnel management policies and
procedures with the objective of providing recommendations for
'.provement.
119.      Terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance to
TDB are presented in Appendix 13. The proposed technical assistance is
estimated to cost about $168,000, of which the foreign currency costs
are estimated to be not more than $160,000 (see Appendix 14). It is
recommended that an amount of $160,000 be provided by the Bank on a
grant basis. TDB has agreed that on its part it would meet the local
currency costs of the technical assistance for providing secretarial
services, domestic accommodation and transport and other support. In
addition, TDB has agreed that its Board will approve the financing of
the computer hardware, software and equipment prior to the consultants
being fielded for the computerization technical assistance.
120.      Separate  selection  will  be  undertaken  for  each  of  the
technical assistance components in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
on the Use of Consultants.



44
D.   Benefits and Risks
121.      TDB has tabulated the socloeconomic benefits anticipated from
projects recelving TDB loans of $10,000 or more made between 30 June
1977 and 31 September 1985. These projects, which had an aggregate loan
amount of T$6.7 million, were expected to generate:  (1) incremental
sales value of T$ 23.9 milllon; (ii) Incremental value-added of T$ 7.9
million; (iii) net foreign exchange earnings/savings of T$ 6.6 million;
and (lv) additional employment for 805 people. The subloans of over
$10,000 approved under the previous two Bank loans accounted for T$1.54
million (23.0 per cent) of this financing, and therefore have resulted
In significant economic benefits to Tongs. As of 31 December 1985, 12.0
per cent of the value of subloans approved under the Bank's loans were
made to projects in the outlying Islands, thus assisting the development
of the poorer,  remote areas.   Similar types of benefits  could be
expected under the proposed project.
122.      The risks involved In the project are minimal.  TDB is an
established and relatively experienced development bank with good
management  and  staff.   TDB's  current  sound  financial  condition  ts
expected to continue (see pare 174), and strong debt-service coverage
and debt:equity ratios are projected. Thus TDB's operations and ability
to service its financial obligatiois would remain unimpaired. TDB has
also administered two Bank loans successfully and therefore should not
encounter any problems in channelling the proposed loan to the intended
uses.
123,      The only possible risks associated with the Project are that:
*i) if TDB's portfolio arrears position were to deteriorate, it could
jeopardize TDB's financial soundness, and (Ii) if TDB continues to have
difficulties in recruiting good quality professional staff, loan
appraisal and supervision standards could decline. However, the Mission
found that recent moves initiated by TDB's maagement have resulted in
an improvement in TDB's arrears situation and further improvements are
expected (see para 166). Furthermore, the proposed technical assistance
for reviewing TDB's personnel management pollcies and procedures should
provide a sufficient basis for TDB's management to address and overcome
current and potential stafftng deficiencies. A further aspect which
could detrimentally affect the utilization of the Bank loan is the
current Interest rate structure in Tonga (see para 32 and 33). The
current artificially low rates that have resulted from the Government's
interest rate regulations may result in a lessening of the effect of
market forces in allocating the loan proceeds to worthwhile projects.
The proposed loan will, howover,  Include appropriate conditionality
under which  the  Government  will  discuss  the  technical  assistance
consultant's final report on review of interest rate policies with the
Bank and will implaent agreed-upon recommendations within a tsimeframe
agreeable to the Bankl/.  No.other problems could be idedtified which
would entail constraints on the successful execution of the project.
1/  L.A. Schedule 6, pars 6.



45
IV. THE EXECUTING AGENCY
A.  Organization and Management
1.   History, Legal Framework, Share Capital and
Relationship with the Government
124.      Following Bank technical assistancel/, Tonga Development Bank
(TDB) was established on 30 June 1977 under the Tonga Development Bank
Act.   As of  31 December  1985,  TDB's authorized  capital was T$7.0
million, of which T$3.46 million had been issued. The Government owns
90 per cent of TDB's shares while the Bank of Tonga (BOT) owns the
remaining 10 per cent.
125.      The Government and TDB have a close working relationship and
TDB generally conforms to the economic priorities set by the Government
through the national development planning program. The Government has
general control over TDB through the following provisions in the Act:
i) power to appoint the Managing Director; (ii) power to appoint
directors representing the Ministries concerned in TDB's operations2/ as
well as two other Directors; (iii) the appoiiitment of the Minister of
Finance as Chairman of the Board of Directors; and (iv) the requirement
that TDB function with due regard to the general economic policies of
the  Government.   At  present,  three  directors,  including  the  BOT
representative, are from the private sector.
126.      The  Mission  considers  that  the  TDB  Act,  Articles  of
Association and Policy Statement (see para 140 and Appendix 15) are
appropriate and ensure reasonable autonomy for TDB in its operations.
2.   Board '; Directors, Organization and Management
127.      A list of the members of TDB's Board of Directors is given in
Appendix 16. The Board meets at least monthly to set policies and to
approve loans excee.'ing T$15,000. In addition, the Board requested that
beginning November 1985 TDB's management submit detailed quarterly
reports on the status of arrears for loans of T$5,000 or more. Although
the Board has generally functioned adequately, the Mission found from a
review of the minutes of Board meetings that decisions relating to the
establishment of staff recruitment and remuneration policies had often
been deferred or made in an ad hoc manner (see para 133). Otherwise the
Mission considers that TDB's Board of Directors provides adequate
guidance and policy direction to TDB's operations and manage_mnt.
128.      The organization chart of TDB is given in Appendix 17.  Within
its headquarters office, TDB has separate operating divisions for
agriculture loans and industrial and commercial loans. The managers of
each of these divisions and the officer in charge of the loan
11 TA No. 174-TON approved 22 July 1976.
2/ Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Forestry, and Mnlistry of Labor, Commerce and Industries.



46
rehabilitation section report to the Deputy Managing Director.  The
thtree  regional  offices  In  'Eua,  Ha'apai  and  Vava'u  are  not
divisionalized in their operations and report to the Administration
Manager at headquarters. The Mission found that TDB's organizational
structure i8 appropriate to its current and future needs with the
following qualification.   There  is no  defined personnel  management
function within TDB's organization. As a result there Is inadeoquate
coordination of recruitment, establishment of required staffing levels,
staff  training  and  development  and  staff  planning.   The  proposed
technical assistance discussed in para 118 Is designed to address this
inadequacy.
129.      TDB's Managing Director (MD), the chief executive, oversees
TDB's operations. On 1 January 1986, the incumbent MD left for two
years' study leave to the United States.   During that period,  the
Deputy Managing Director (DMD) is the Acting 1D, and the Operations
Manager for Industries and commerce is the Acting DMD. All of TDB's
management are Tongans with uuiversity qualifications; all of them have
appropriate experience and have performed effectively.
130.      Two manager r  'ositions  that  are vacant  at present  are
Finance Manager and r       ;s and Research Manager.  The Finance Manager
position is a kev f          , part cularly given the need for strong
accounting expert - wi u 1DB du ing the proposed computerization of
TDB's accountir  4>tsem.  .DB .. -  iperienced difficulties in recruiting
a  suitably-c -ilfied  Finance  Manager  from within Tonga and,  as  a
consequence, the Australian Government has agreed to provide an
expatriate accountant under technical assistance to fill the position
for a two-year period. At the time of the Mission, a shortlist of
candidates had been submitted to TDB, and an appointment is expected to
be made soon. To address the long-term position, a senior member of
TDB's accounting staff is studying, with financial assistance from TDB,
for an accounting degree at the University of the South Pacific (see
para 155). The Economics and Research Manager position is vacant as a
result of recent promotions within TDB. This vacancy is less critical
as TDB's economist is well-qualified and capable of handling TDB's
ongoing requirements for economic evaluation, monitoring of the econvaic
climate and compiling and reporting on various statistics. However, if
TDB is to become more actively involved in sector research, project
identification and project promotion activities, an Economics and
Research Manager  needs  to be  appointed.   TDB has applied  to  the
Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) for technical
assistance to fill the position, although the results of that
application are not yet known.
131.      The Government will, before making any appointment to the
position of Managing Director or Deputy Managing Director, consult the
Bank regarding the qualifications, experience and tenure of office of
the candidate 11.
17   L.A.L  chedule 6, para 4.



47
3.   Staff and Training
132.      TDB's   total   staff   increased   from   52   (including   28
professionals) as of 30 September 1982, to 88 (including 32
professionals) as of 31 December 1985. Staff turnover levels within TDB
have been low in the past, although staff turnover has increased
recently from 14 per cent during 1982 to 24 per cent during 1985. Most
of this turnover has been among supporting staff and only four
professional staff had left TDB's employ between the time of TDB's
establishment and 31 December 1985. Most of the increase in TDB's staff
resulted from increased administrative staff numbers. This increase in
supporting staff numbers resulted partly from the requirement for more
accounting staff for operating TDB's manual accounting system. However,
the Mission expressed the view, and TDB's management agreed, that the
rapid overall increase in TDB's supporting staff numbers was difficult
to justify in terms of a compensatory increase in the volume of loan-
related  transactions.   Overstaffing  has  therefore  been  allowed  to
develop In some areas of.TDB's operations.
133.      On the other hand, the increase in professional staff numbers
over the period since 1982 has been relatively small, and it is apparent
that  some  important  functional  areas  of  TDB's  operation  are
understaffed.   In particular, two senior loan officer positions, the
position of rehabilitation officer and two staff training officer
positions are vacant. As a result, TDB's loan appraisal and supervision
capabilities are overtaxed atid internal staff training programs have
lapsed.  TDB has encountered difficulties in recruiting personnel for
these positions, partly because the remuneration levels offered do not
compare favorably with remuneration levels within the private sector in
Tonga, particularly within the Bank of Tonga.
134.      It  is apparent  from  TDB's  staffing  situation  that TDB's
personnel management policies and procedures are in urgent need of
improvement.  TDB's management fully agrees with this assessment and
attaches high priority to the need for the technical assistance proposed
in para 118. The results of that technical assistance and TDB's plans
for implementing the consultant's recommendations will be discussed with
the Bank within three months of the completion of the consulting
servicesl/.
135.      TDB's  in-house  staff  training  activities  are  at  present
restricted to on-the-job training. This is supplemented by attendance
of professional staff at overseas training courses organized by, among
others, the Bank2/. Twelve staff members attended such training courses
during 1984 and 1985. The lack of formal in-house training has resulted
from difficulties experienced in recruiting a suitable training officer.
However, CFTC has approved provision of technical assistance that will
provide a staff training expert to TDB for a two-year period.  This
appointment is expected to be made during the first half of  1986.   The
17  P.A. Schedule, para 9.
2/ Three Tongans attended the Bank's Training Assistance Unit courses
during 1984 and four during 1985.



48
Mission considers that the proposed CPTC assistance will Improve TDB'a
staff training procedures. The Mission also found that, as a result of
the relatively long tenure of many of TDB's professional staff, the
general skill levels of staff are high and satisfactory for TDB's
current operations. TDB will continue to give high priority to itaff
training activities, will keep the Bank infored of its staff training
program on an annual basiss1/ and will continue to take all necessary
measures to ensure that Its staff is adequately qualified2/.
B.   Operations
1.  Activities
136.      Although TDB is empowered to carry out a full range of lending
and other support activities,3/ it has mailly been involved In providing
term loans for projects in agriculture and industry. TDB has thus far
made five equity investments. TDB will seek the Bank's prior agreement
before establishing or acquiring any subsidiary companyl/.
137.      TDB's  project  admlaistration  capabilities  have  also  been
utilized in the implementation of projects as follows: (i) as agent to
the New Zealand Government for the Pacific Islands Industrial
Development Scheme; (ii) as the executing agency for the Artisanal Fleet
Development Plan under which 40 fishing vessels are being financed by
the Government and the United Nations Capital Development Fund; and
(iii) as the executing agency for the Bank's credit line to assist
private vanilla growers in the development of vanilla curing facilities,
on-farm  facilities  and  extension  services.  TDB  also  acts  as  a
commission agent for insurance services to its borrowers.  TDB, as
agent, does not assume any liability under the insurance policies.
138.      The provision of relatively small medium-term loans to a large
number of borrowers remain TDB's predominant activity. The appraisal
and supervision of a large number of such loans is a costly undertaking,
particularly in view of the need for TDB to provide loan services to
widely-dispersed geographic areas. As a result, TDB's administrative
costs are high in relation to the value of its portfolio (see pare 162).
The Mission considers, and TDB's management agrees, that TDB should
develop avenues for widening the scope of its activities so as to make
more efficient use of its staff and other resources.   As well as
improving TDB's potential profitability, a wider scope of activities
(including, for example, provision of hire purchase and lease financing,
and providing loans for property purchase) could result in TDB being a
more efficient financial intermediary.  In addition, TDB has yet to
develop a domestic funding base independent of equity contributions from
the Government and the Bank of Tonga, and in the interest of promoting
its own maturity as a financial institution, such independent funding
sources should be developed.
17  P.A. Schedule, para 8.
2/   L.A. Schedule 6, para 5; and P.A. Schedule, pars 7.
3/   Under the TDB Act, TDB can lend to all types of development
projects, participate in equity investments and issue guarantees.
4/ P.A. Section 3.08(c) (11).



49
139.      As an initial step in developing a wider and more appropriate
range of activities, TDB has agreed to adopt an operatiug strategy
statement by 31 December 1986 that would also formalize a specific
profit objective for FYs 1987 through 1990. The new strategy statement
will outline the means for improving TDB's profitability, including any
necessary changes in the scope and method of Its operationsl/.
2.   Policies
140.      The basic document guiding TDB's operations is its Policy
Statement which remains unchanged and continues to provide satisfactory
guidance (see Appendix 15).  Any substantial amendment in TDB's Policy
Statement will be effected only with the prior agreement of the Bank2/.
3.   Procedures
141.      TDB's   operational   procedures   for   loan   processing,
documentation, procurement, disbursement and supervision are generally
adequate. Loan approval limits of TDB's officers have been reviewed
since the appraisal of the second loan. The Managing Director's loan
approval  limit  remains. unchanged  at T$15,000,  the Deputy Managing
Director's loan approval limit has been increased from T$7,500 to
T$I0,000, and Operations Managers can now approve loans of up to
T$5,000. The Mission considers these limits to be appropriate.
142.      The only major change in TDB's approval procedures since the
appraisal of the Bank's second loan has been the establishment of a loan
review committee which is comprised of the Managing Director, Deputy
Managing Director, Operations Managers, Administration Manager and the
Economist. This committee reviews all loan proposals of T$15,000 or
more at an early stage of loan processing. Loan supervision procedures
have, however,  been significantly Improved.   In recognition of the
inadequate attention given to loan supervision prior to FY1984, and in
response to a growing arrears problem (see para 166), TDB's management
established a rehabilitation section to handle problem loans of T$*5,000
or greater, and introduced administrative procedures that ensure that
the required project visits are made and appropriate follow-up actions
formulated.   The Mission  is  satisfied  that TDB's  loan  supervision
procedures are satisfactory, but considers that the Improved arrears
information that will result from a computerized accounting system will
make TDB more responsive to emerging problem situations and further
improve the quality of TDB's loan portfolio.
143.      TDB's loan appraisal procedures benefitted significatly from
the work of the consultant under the Bank's T.A. No. 510-TON. As a
result of this technical assistance, economic evaluation aspects of the
appraisal of loans of T$10,000 or more has improved, more attention is
being paid to marketing aspects and sector issues, and financial
17  P.A. Schedule, para 13.
2/   L.A. Schedule 6, para 3; and P.A. Section 3.01(c).



50
analyses are more detailed. In addition, an adviser currently seconded
to TDB for a two-year period from the New Zealand Rural Banking and
Finance Corporation has introduced improvements to the appraisal of
agricultural loans. The Nission is satisfied with the quality of TDB's
loan appraisals and was particularly impressed by the improvement in
loan appraisal standards that resulted from the employment during the
last three years of the current Acting Deputy Managing Director and the
Operations Manager for Industries and Commerce.
4.   Operational Performance
a. Overview
144.      Highlights of TDB's lending during FY1981-1985 are summarized
in Table  3.   A  detailed  analysis  of  approvals  by  sector,type  of
borrower, geographic location, size and maturity of loan is provided in
Appendix 18.
Table 3: §ummzy of Low and           Fm 98L-1m
Pye ndig 31 Dec.     1981         1982 B                       1984       1985
No.  Am-  No.  Nuxm    No.  Ammt   ND.  Awt   No.  hAmt
Ariculdmwe         2,728  1,261  2,965  1,707  2,233  1,300  2,544  1,967  2,488  1,880
ndustry and hbs s   347  1,198   427  1,134   312  1,113   369  1,427   303  1,690
Staff a/              71    78    39    38   103    47   180    98   270   128
Equity bwetzumnts      1    25      -      -      1    20      1    35       -      -
Total             3,147  2        -  2879    W        W   -3      3527  3 E W   3
3,4~~~    - -    -._-                 -      -
Amwel Gwth Rate (Z)        24.9         12.4         (13.9)        42.2           4.8
a7 trn. areovId  to staff on a lUdtd basis to assist wih pKonaral axpetes.
Ia mea    these loim are dert-tem salazy advane to mist with day-to-day
finaing r {drEns,but thWy als include larger-tam lams for huse andor
vdcle pase.
145.      Between FYs1981 and 1985, TDB's approval levels grew  at an
average annual rate of 9.6 per cent.   A  13.9 per cent decline in
approvals occurred during FY1983, largely as a result of cyclone Isaac
and the subsequent disruption to the economy. With an infusion of funds
by way of additional equity from the Government and credit lines from
the Bank and the European Investment Bank during late 1983 and early
1984, lending levels were able to recover strongly during FY1984.
146.      TDB's equity investment operations, which commenced in 1978,
have been of minor importance. As of 31 December 1985, TDB had approved
six equity investments with a total value of T$141,000. Of these, one
investment of T$20,000 was not disbursed, two investments totalling
T$53,500 have failed and been written-off, three investments totalling
T$32,000 are in profitable operation and one investment of T$35,000 is
still In its Initial expansion program. Appendix 19 provides further
details of TDB's equity investment portfolio.



51
b. Type of Borrower) Geographic Locatlon, Loan Size
and Maturity
147.      A high proportion of TDB's clients are repeat borrowers.
During FY1985 only 30 per cent of TDB's loan approvals by number and 32
per cent by value were mwde to new borrowers. This is partly a result
of TDB's "Aim High" lending promotion which encourages quick repayment
of loans to qualify for a subsequent loan for further investment
purposes.
148.      TDB's lending has been concentrated in the main island of
Tongatapu which accounted for 73.7 per cent of approvals by value during
fiscal year 1985. The geographic spread of TDB's lending corresponds
with the population spread between the various islands and also with the
availability of better infrastructure and the larger market within
Tongatapu.
149.      The average size of loan approved by TDB increased from T$814
during FY1981 to T$1,208 partly as a result of inflation, but also as a
result of TDB's increasing emphasis on lending to commercial agriculture
as opposed to subsistence agriculture projects. However, during FY1985
2,680 loans or 87.5 per cent of the total loans by number were for
T$1,000 or less. This is a large volume of loans for a small DFI to
process, and is the prime cause of TDB's relatively high staff costs.
150.      Between FY1981 and FY1985 there was a gradual increase in the
proportion of loans made with longer maturities. Despite this, 88.6 per
cent of the loans made by TDB during FY1985 had a maturity of less than
two years.  This reflects the small size of the loans and also the
purpose of many loans which were made to facilitate the planting and
harvesting  of  short-term  crops.   However,  to  promote  longer-term
development of productive resources and also to allow TDB's interest
earning portfolio to increase to a more profitable level, TDB needs to
increase the average maturity period of its loans. This is recognized
by TDB's management, and top priority has been given to the
identification of projects requiring long-term financing.
c. Sectoral Distribution
151.      A detailed sectoral classification of approvals for the period
FY1981-1985 Is provided in Appendix 20. The sectoral distribution of
TDB's leandlg reflects the importance of the agriculture sector in
Tonga's economy, with 53.6 per cent of total approvals during the five-
year period being made to agriculture projects. Financing of crops is
the dominant form of agriculture lending with 27.3 per cent of total
lending for the period. This is followed by farm, plant and equipment
financing with 15.4 per cent of total approvals.  Despite the high
priority given to the identification and promotion of industrial
projects by both TDB and the Government, only 10.1 per cent of TDB's
approvals during the five-year period were to manufacturing projects.
The small domestic market within Tonga and high transport costs for
exported products have the Inevitable result that new manufacturing
industries  are  difficult  to establish.   In  addition, a  sbortage of



52
local entrepreneurs and technicians results in a situation in which a
relatively low proportion of TDB's lending is to industrial projects.
The tourism industry was the next most Important recipient of TDB's
loans, receiving 7.8 per cent of total approvals over the five-year
period.   This  reflects  the  steady  growth  of  small-scale  tourist
facilities within Tonga.
5.   Projected Operational Performance
152.      The projected lending and equity investment operations of TDB
for FY1986-1990 are summarized in Table 4.
Table 4: TDB's Projected Loan and Equity Investment Approvals
(T$'O0O)
Year ending 31 Dec.  1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   Total        2
Agriculture          29100   2,218   2,307   2,415   2,514  11,554   44.5
Industry and
business           2,028   2,028   2,682   3,084   3,547  13,673   52.7
Staff                   75      78      82      86       90     411    1.6
Equity Investments      50      50      75       75      75     325    1.2
Total          4,253   4,678   5,146   5 660   6,266  25 963 T-1.0
US$ Equivalent      3,037      34 3,673   5           4,447
153.      Of TDB's total projected loan and equity approvals of T$26.0
million during FY1986-1990, the agriculture sector will account for 44.5
per cent, followed by the industry and business sectors (52 per cent),
staff loans (1.6 per cent),: and equity investments (1.2 per cent).  The
projected approvals for 1986 are based on TDB's operational plan and
pipeline of projects and will represent an increase of 15 per cent over
1985. Thereafter, projected approvals are expected to increase at an
annual rate of 10 per cent. These projections, vhich take into account
the envisaged capital outlays it the country, the operational
performance of TDB during 1985 and its existing pipeline, are considered
reasonable and realistic.
C.  Accounting, Audit and Financlal Controls
154.      TDB's  accounts  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  the
requirements under the TDB Act. The accounting system iS centralized at
the headquarters office, although the Vava'u office maintalis its own
loans ledger. The accounting system is msnually operated and utilizes
three NCR accounting machines. Income is reported on an accrual basis;
the format of the accounting system would make it difficult for income
to be reported on a cash basis. The accounting system currently in
use has remalied basically unchanged since TDB was established and is no
longer appropriate to TD'sa requirements, given the large number of loan
accounts and the large number of transactions handled each month. In



53
particular, the system does not allow for variable interest rates to be
charged, does not automatically compute penalty interest or interest to
be charged on overdue installments and arrears; such information must be
laboriously extracted by anually checking all loan ledger cards. As a
result, arrears reports are often up to two months late.
155.      The senior accounting officers are adequately trained and have
shown themselves capable of operating the current system in a manner
that allows acceptable accounting information to be generated for the
day-to-day operation of TDB. In addition, monthly, quarterly and annual
income accounts and balance sheets are generated In a timely manner.
TDB will continue to provide the Bank with its financial projections for
the succeeding three years within six months of the completion of each
fiscal  year  1/.   TDB  has  encountered  difficulties  since  its
establiahuent, however,  in recruiting a sufficiently experienced and
qualified Finance Manager. The position was most recently filled (until
November 1985) by a US Peace Corps volunteer who performed her
day-to-day duties adequately, but was unable to introduce needed
improvements into the accounting system and was also unable to fulfill
that part of her terms of reference that required an updated accounting
procedures manual to be prepared. As a long-term solution to filling
this vacancy, a TDB staff member is currently at the University of the
South Pacific studying for an accounting degree with financial support
from TDB. An interim Finance Manager is currently being recruited for a
two-year term under Australian Government technical assistance.
156.      The need for TDP to purchase and introduce an appropriate
computerized accounting system is urgent and Bank technical assistance
Is proposed for that purpose (see para 117).
157.      TDB employs a full-time internal auditor who reports directly
to the Managing Director. He undertakes acceptable checks and prepares
appropriate reports on the manner in which TDB's operating procedures
are followed and accounting transactions conducted. Appropriate actions
are taken by TDB's management to follow up on the internal auditor's
recommendations.
158.      TDB confirmed that its accounts will continue to be audited by
an independent private auditor acceptable to the Bank, and that a copy
of the audited accounts and the auditor's report will be furnished to
the Bank within six months after the end of TDB's financial year2/. It
was further agreed that the audit report would include a separate long
form audit report containing (i) the scope of audit, and adequacy of
internal control procedures; (ii) a quality classification of TDB's loan
and equity portfolio; (iii) the auditor's opinion regarding the adequacy
of TDB's balance sheet provisions; (iv) an analysis of arrears; (v) the
auditor's evaluation of the adequacy of TDB's accounting systems and
procedures and of its financial management; and (vi) the auditor's
opinion as to whether the covenants of major borrowings have been
complied   with  so  that  their  maturities  are   not   likely  to  be
1/  P.A. Schedule, para 10.
21   P.A. Section 3.06 (a).



54
acceleratedl/.   TDB will  also  authorize  the  Bank  to  discuss  its
financial alfairs from time to time with TDB's independent auditors 2/.
The Mission considers TDB's current audit arrangements satisfactory.
D.   Financial Performance
1.   Interest Rate Structure
159.      The interest rates charged by TDB vary between 6 per cent and
10 per cent per annum depending on the type of project being financed
and the size of the loan.  The lowest rates are charged on loans
provided to top-priority projects for development of the agriculture,
fisheries,  livestock  and  natural  resource  sectors.   TDB's  current
interest rate structure (see Appendix 2) was adopted on 1 October 1984
following a review of its interest rate policies conducted by the
consultant under the Bank T.A. No. 510-TON. The consultant recommended
that concessional interest rates should continue to be charged in
accordance with sectoral prioritisE as defined under the Government's
development plans. TDB has agreed to review and revise its interest
rate structure In consultation with the Bank within one month of any
changes being wade in the Goverrment's interest rate policy, law or
regulations 3/.
160.      Under the current interest rate structure, it is expected that
TDB will have a projected average onlending rate of 8.5 per cent per
annum to its borrowers.  This rate is comparable with the average
lending rate of BOT which is expected to be 9 to 9.5 per cent.  The
margin provided to TDB under the proposed loan of 5.5 per cent is
adequate to meet TDB's projlcted costs.
2.  Past and Current Performance
161.     Table 5 summarizes TDB's financial performance for FYs1981
through 1985. The detailed financial statements are given in Appendixes
21, 22 and 23.
1/   P.A. Section 3.0  (b).
2/   P.A. Section 3.06 (c).
3/   P.A. Schedule, para 2.



55
Table 5:  Sumary of Financial Performance FY1981-1985
(T$'0O)
Year ending 31 December    1981       1982       1983      1984      1985
Total assets               3,734     5,176     5,679      7,046     8,149
Total portfolio            2,872     3,789      4,136     5,626     6,389
Total long term debt       2,050     2,484      2,711     3,388     4,256
Tozal equity               1,571     2,557      29848     3,237     3,618
Income from loans            218       299        375       405       517
Operating expenses           165       196        264       360       423
Interest on borrowings        57        71         72        86       110
Net income                    17        34         31        22        30
Ratios:
Debt:equity a/             1.3:1     1.0:1      0.9:1     1.0:1      1.2:1
Debt-service coverage
(times)                      26        25         18       5.9       8.2
Return on av. equity         1.1       1.3        1.1       0.7       0.9
Operating expenses to
average total portfolio    6.9        6.0        6.7       7.5        7.0
lnterest spread b/           6.1       6.3        6.8       5.6       5.8
Earnings spread c/           7.7       7.1        8.1       7.6        8.2
Current ratio dr           6.7:1     7.3;1      8.2:1     2.2:1     4.8:1
Long-term liabilities less current portion of long-term debt:
total equity.
b/  Income from portfolio as a percentage of average portfolio minus
Interest on borrowings as a percentage of average borrowings.
c/ Total income as a percentage of average total loans and Investments
minus Interest and operating expenses as a percentage of average
loans and investments.
d/  Current assets:Current liabilities.
162.      TDB has maintained margitally acceptable profitability during
the period FY1981-1985 with a return on average equity varying between
0.7 per cent and 1.3 per cent. This relatively low return on equity is
a reflection partly of. TDB's low debt:equity ratio which has been
maintained at close to unity and of TDB's relatively high personnel
costs. These high costs are a result of the large number of small loans
handled by TDB, but also of inadequate staffing policies whieh may have
resulted in an overstaffing situation in some areas of TDB's operation
(see para 132).
163.      TDB has maintained strong liquidity over the period. Although
TDB's debt-service coverage ratio has reduced during FYs1984 and 1985
from very high earlier levels reflecting the end of grace periods on
earlier borrowings, it still reflects a strong position at 8.2 times for
FY1985.  The debt:equity ratio has rmained well wi.this the coveinated
maxwmum of 3:1.



56
164.      TDB's source and application of funds during FYs1981-1985 are
summarized in Table 6. Details of TDB's borrowings as of 31 December
1985 are given in Appendix 24. During the period, loan disbursements
constituted the bulk of the total fund requirements accounting for 87.1
per  cent.   Debt  service  requirements  were  light  (5.5  per  cent),
reflecting the long-term nature of TDBts borrowings with grace periods
ranging from five to ten years.   Internal cash generation and loan
collections accounted for a relatively high 62.5 per cent of TDB's
resource requirements over the period, reflecting the relatively short
maturity of TDB's loans.
Table 6:  Summar  of TDB's Sources and ApplIcation of Funds
(FY 1981-1985)
(T$_'000)
Year ending 31 December                 1981-1985           %
Sources of Funds:
Internal cash generation                 1,047            7.2
Loan collections                         8,049           55.3
Borrowings                               2,963           20.3
Share capital increase                   1,929           13.3
Increase in current liabilities            566            3.9
Total                                 14,554          100.0
Application of Funds:
Loan disbursements                      12*673           87.1
Debt service                               798            5.5
Acquisition of fixed assets                917            6.3
Increase in current assets                 166            1.1
Total                                 14,554          1B675
3. Portfolio Management
165.      An  analysis  of  TDB's  loan  collection  performance  and  a
sectoral analysis of TDB's portfolio for the period PYs1981-1985 is
provided in Appendix 25. As of 31 December 1985, TDB's loan portfolio
totalled T$6.3 million and accounted for 77.8 per cent of total assets.
Between FYs1981 and 1985, TDB's loan portfolio increased in line with
its lending operations. The share of agriculture loans by amount in the
total portfolio increased only marginally from 37.6 per cent to 39.8 per
cent despite the higher proportion of approvals to the agriculture
sector during the period.   This is a reflection of  the generally
longer-term average maturities for industrial and commercial loans.
166.      TDh's loan collection performance deteriorated between FYs1981
and 1983. During FY1981,, TDB achieved a good collection ratio of 78.5
per cant and this had declined to 62.6 per cent by the end of FY1983.
External causes of this deterioration included the effects of the



57
cyclone in 1982, a prolonged drought during 1983 and the adverse impact
of worldwide economic recession since 1981. Within TDB, Inadequate loan
supervision procedures that were exacerbated by the steadily increasing
number of loans in TDB's portfolio were also an important cause of the
increasing arrears levels.  TDB's management recognized this problem
during 1984 and appointed an arrears task force to develop remedial
action.   This remedial action included the establishment of a loan
rehabilitation section to handle larger problem loans and to maintain a
watching brief over the staff's performance In meeting its loan
supervision   requirements.    In  addition,   improved   administrative
procedures for loan supervision have been developed and implemented.
167.      The  Mission  found  that  TDB's  management  has  now  taken
appropriate action to improve loan supervision and as a result. TDB's
cash collection ratio has improved to 67.2 per cent during FT1985. This
improvement has occurred despite a prolonged drought In Tonga during
1985 that affected the performance of a large number of the projects
stupported by TDB. To encourage further improvements in TDB's collection
performance, a covenant to the proposed loan will require TDB to further
improve its minimum annual cash collection ratio, calculated on a
rolling quarterly basis, to 70 per cent by the end of 1986 and to 75 per
cent by the end of 1987 and thereafter 1/.
168.      A detailed analysis of TDB's arrears is provided in Appendix
26.  Total arrears increased from T$0.189 million as of 31 December 1981
to T$0.523 million LB of 31 December 1985. At that date, 68.4 per cent
of arrears by value were from agriculture loans which, In addition to
being the sector worst affected by cyclones and drought, are the most
difficult to supervise.   TDB's overall arrears ratio  (the ratio of
arrears to total portfolio) has, however, improved significantly from
12.57 per cent at 31 December 1983 to 8.3 per cent at 31 December 1985,
mainly as a result of the improved loan supervision.
169.      The  category  of TDB's arrears  that  is  in most need  of
attention is the hardcore arrears that are 12 months or more overdue.
The arrears in this category increased from 1.3 per cent of total
portfolio value at 31 December 1981 to 5.9 per cent at 31 December 1983,
and have since declined to 3.8 per cent at 31 December 1985. A high
proportion of these arrears are well secured under chattels securities
and/or  meaningful  personal  guarantees.   TDB  has  previously  been
reluctant to enforce such securities In a businesslike manner, although
a stronger attitude has been adopted recently.   The Mission feels,
however, that high priority should be given to reducing the hardcore
arrears which at 31 December 1985, were equivalent to 45.5 per cent of
total arrears.  Accordingly, a covenant to the proposed loan will
require TDB to reduce the ratio of hardcore arrears to total loan
portfolio value, calculated on an annual basis, to a maximum of 3.0 per
cent by 31 D,cember 1986, and to a maximu of 2.0 per cent by 31
December 1987 and thereafter 2/. In the event that TDB fails to meet
these targets, or the minlmum annual cash collection ratios (see para
167), disbursements under the proposed loan could be halted 3/.
1'  P.A. Schedule, para 11 (a).
2/   P.A. Schedule, pare 11 (b).
31 L.A. Schedule 3, para 9; and P.A. Schedule, para 12.



58
170.      TDB'a provision for doubtful debts as of 31 December 1985 was
T$396,000, equivalent to 75.7 per cent of total arrears.  Given the
generally good security held by TDB over its loans and the good
repayment ethic present within Tongan society, the Mission considers
this provision to be acceptable.
4. Projected Financial Performance and Resource Position
171.      A  summary  of  TDB's  projected  financial  performance  for
FYs1986 through 1990 Is given in Table 7, and details are given in
Appendixes 21, 22 and 23. The major assumptions for the projections are
given in Appendix 27.
Table 7:  Swima   of Prolected Financial Performance
FY1986-1990
Year ending 31 December   1986       1987      1988      1989       1990
Total assets              9s786    10,304    10*802    11,856    13,618
Total portfolio           7,607      8,377     9,519    11,131    13,066
Total long-term debts     5,788      6,164     6,405     7,056     8,059
Equity                    3,798      3,950     4,091     4,492     5,105
Income from loans           656        746       831       954     1,116
Operating expenses          505        545       576       606       667
Interest on borrowings      146        170       178       194       222
Net Income                   38         52        41        51        63
Ratios: a/
Debt:equity               1.5:1      1.6:1     1.6:1     1.6:1     1.6:1
Debt service coverage
(times)                    7.4       7.9        7.2       6.0       4.8
Return on average
equity                     1.0        1.3       1.0       1.2       1.3
Return on equity
before provisions          4.1        5.4       5.9       f.9       7.8
Operating expenses to
average total portfolio    7.2        6.8       6.4       5.9       5.5
Interest spread             6.6        6.7       6.7       6.6       6.6
Earnings spread             8.2        8.1       8.2       8.3       8.3
Current ratio             8.9:1      8.3:1     3.6:1     2.4:1     1.7:1
a/ Ratios calculated as in Tale 5.
172.      TDB is projecting a continuation of marginally acceptable
profitability. Net income as a percentage of average equity is not
projected to increase significantly despite good projected portfolio
growth and an average Interest spread of around 6.6 per cent. However,
the projections reflect the requirement for TDB to commence paying



59
income tax from FY1988 1/. Under Tongan law, tax is calculated on net
income before provisions for doubtful debts. In the case of TDB, 75 per
cent of projected net income before tax is transferred to the provision
for doubtful debts. As result, a high rate of tax on net profit after
provisions Is projected. TDB's return on equity before provisions is
projected to show a more satisfactory increase from 4.1 per cent in
FY1986 to 7.8 per cent in FY1990.
173.      The Mission considers that TDEBs operational efficiency would
benefit  from the commercial discipline that would  follow from the
adoption of a more challenging profit objective. A coveuant to the
proposed loan will require that TDB adopt a new operating strategy
statement prior to 31 December 1986 that incorporates such a
profitability objective for FYs1987 through 1990 and the proposed means
for achieving it 2/.
174.      TDB is projecting a continuation of its satisfactory liquidity
position with projected debt service coverage well above the covenanted
minimum of 1.5 times cover 3/.  TDB's financial structure  is also
projected to remain strong and the projected debt:equity ratio remains
below the covenanted maximum of 3.0:1 41.  The Mission considers that
TDB's policy of appropriating 75 per cent of pre-tax profit to its
provision for doubtful debts should provide adequate protection against
potential bad debts in forseeable circumstances. In addition, TDB's
auditors will in the future be required to provide their assessment of
the  adequacy  of  TDB's  provisions  5/.   The  projections  show  thi.s
provision increasing to T$1,135 millia by 31 December 1990, equivalent
to 8.7 per cent of total projected portfolio value.
175.      The Government has given satisfactory assurances with regard
to  meeting  TDB's  local  currency  requirements  6/.   TDB's projected
financing plan for the period FY1986-1990 is summarized in Table 8.
1/  TDB was awarded a ten-year tax holiday at the time of its
establishment.
2/   P.A. Schedule, para 13.
3/ P.A. Schedule, Section 3.09.
/I  P.A. Schedule, Section 3.09.
51 P.A. Section 3.06 (b).
T/  L.A. Section 4.02 (b).



60
Table 8:  TD's FinancIEg Plan for FY1986-1990
(T11000)
Year ending $1 December                   1986-1990            2
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                   2,159               9.1
Loan collections                          14,656              61.6
Borrowings                                 5,538              23.3
Share capital increases                    1,242               5.2
Increase in current liabilities              179               0.8
23,774            100.0
Application of Funds
Loan and equity disbursements             21,333              89.7
Debt service                               2,641              11.1
Acquisition of fixed assets                  380               1.6
Increase in current assets                   580)             (2.4)
Z3,7 4            -100.
176.      Total disbursements of loans and equity investments for the
period are projected to amount to T$21.3 million, of which the foreign
currency portion will account for about 40 per cent. TDB's total debt
service requirement will Increase significantly to 11, 1 per cent of
total fund requiremante as a result of the ending of the grace periods
on various borrowings, but will still be a relatively low proportion of
TDB's outgoings.  The major sources of finance will be from internal
cash generation and loan collections (70.7 per cent) followed by new
borrowings (23.3 per cent). The Mission considers that TDB's financing
plan is sound.
E.   Implemetation of Previous Bank Loans and Teehnical Assistance
1.   General
177.      The details of the Bank loans and their utilization are given
in Appendixes 28 and 29.  The Bank has provided for TDB from Special
Funds, loans totalling US$2.5 million the overall utilization of which
has been satisfactory. The first Bank loan has been fully utilized and
closed. Comitments under the second loan of US$1.0 million amounted to
$0.646 million as of 31 December 1985, and It Is expected to be fully
committed as of 31 May 1986. All disburcements under the Bank loans
thus far have been on a reimbureemet basis, mainly for off-the-shalf
purcbaess. An manlysis for the two Bank loans of procureant by country
of origin Is given in Appesdix 30. By amount, the loading countries
were Japan, Australia and New Zealand.



61
2.   Nature of Subloans
178.      TDB has financed 1,410 subloans under the two Bank loans as of
31 December 1985.  By number,  91.9 per cent were approved for the
agriculture sector, followed by 7.0 per cent for the service sector and
1.1 per cent for the manufacturing sector. The average size of subloan
under the first loan was $1,458 and $1,543 under the second loan.
Reflecting this relatively small average size of subloans, 92.4 per cent
of subloans under the first loan and 77.7 per cent of subloans under the
second loan were for a term of two years or less. Subprojects financed
under the two loans were mainly located in Tongatapu and Vava'u.
3.   Financial and Socioeconomic Performance of Subprojecte
179.      It is difficult to assess the financial and socioeconomic
performance of subprojects financed under the loan due to the nature of
the subprojects, a paucity of relevant data and the large number of
small borrowers involved. However, all apart from 13 of the 57 subloans
of over T$5,000 financed under the first loan have since been repaid;
this implies generally satisfactory financial performance. As of 31
December 1985, 16 of the 64 subloans of over T$5,000 financed under the
second loan were in arrears, a proportion which is generally in line
with the performance of TDB's overall portfolio.
180.      The consultant employed under the Bank's T.A. No.  510-TON
evaluated data on the expected socioeconomic contribution of loans of
over $10,000 provided by TDB since its establishment.  The consultant
found that such loans had an aggregate amount of T$6.7 million and were
expected to generate (i) incremental sales value of T$23.9 million, (ii)
incremental value added of T$7.9 million; (iii) net foreign exchange
earnings/savings of T$6.6 million; and (iv) add!tional employment of 805
people. The subloans of over $10,000 approved under the two Bank loans
accounted for 23.0 per cent of this financing and therefore have
resulted in significant economic benefits to Tonga. For the purpose of
the proposed loan, TDB has agreed to introduce an improved project
benefit monitoring system to allow an improved assessment of the loan's
financial and socioeconomic performance 1/.
4.   Implementation of Technical Assistance
181.      The first two technical assistance grants provided by the Bank
to TDB enabled a senior development banking expert to be employed to
assist the establishment of TDB and the initial management of TDB's
operations. This technical assistance made an Important contribution to
the  subsequent  satisfactory  performance  of  TDB.   The  technical
assistance provided under the second loan was originally intended to
provide accounting as well as economic evaluation expertise to
strengthen TDB's operations. However, a US Peace Corps volunteer with
appropriate qualifications became available to TDB, and the full nine
man-months of the Bank's technical assistance were utilized to Improve
TDB's economic evaluation capabilities. This technical assistance was
successfully completed, and related changes have since been made to
TDB's policies and procedures.
1/  P.A. Schedule, para 5.



62
5.  Lessons Learned from the Previous  Bank Loans
182.      The sajor  recomendations  of  the  Project  Completion  and
Project Performance Audit Reports covering the first Bauk loan were as
follows:   (1)  The  Bank  should  cosider  the  provision  of  further
institution-building technical assistance to TDB following an li-depth
analysis  of  TDB's  key  constralits  and  potentials;  (ii)  TDBts
institutional productivity should be laproved through an improvement of
personnel mangemnt policies and procedures, through a widening of the
scope of TDB's operations, and through a review of TDB's isetitutional
structure; (iii) a thorough study of the causes and implications of
TDB's hardeore arrears Is necessary; and (iv) the government should
improve the effectiveness of Its Interest rate policies.
183.      The Mission undertook its appraisal for the proposed loan
within the context of these recommendations and ldentifled the key
constraints to TD)B's operations as being its inadequate accounting
system, inadequate personnel mauagement policies and procedures, and the
restrictive Interest rate enviroment. Appropriate technical assistance
is proposed to help overcome these constraints. The recomendation that
the scope of TDB's operations be reviwed and widened was addressed
during detailed discussion with the Government and TDB. A videaning of
the scope of TDB's operations could include TDB's inolvemet in hire
purchase and lease activities and possibly the provision of home
finance. In addition, TDB could hecome lvolved In taking deposits from
the private sector. A covenant requiring TDB to review its operating
strategy was developed in  this regard  1/.  The Mission found that
appropriate analysis of TDB's arrears sltuation has been undertaken by
TDB's management and appropriate corrective action taken (see paras 166
an4 167).
6.  Compliance with Previous Bank Loan Covenants
184.     All covenants under the Bank's loans to TDB have been complied
with (see Appendix 31).
17  P.A. Schedule, para 13.



63
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
185.      The scattered nature of the Tongan island groups and the
small size of the country's population means that development projects
are smalU and have to be designed to fit within the capacity of the
Imple_enting  Agencies.   In  this  context,  the  Project  has  been
fomulatted as a Multiproject and a Line of Credit to TDB.  The
proposed loan of $3.0 million from the Bank's Special Funds Resources
- $2.0 million to support the Multiprojece and $1.0 million to
provide the line of credit -- is considered suitable for this purpose.
the Project also provides for technical assistance grants totalling
$381,000 to provide consulting services to assist in implementing the
subprojects to be financed under the Multiproject, to enable the
Government to review its interest rate policies, and to provide
institutional strengthening to selected implementing agencies and TDB.
186.      The Multiproject will support implementation of a number of
small, high-priority subprojects in the industrial and infrastructure
sectors; the subprojects will support development of manufacturing,
the Goverrment's regional development policy, and development of
agriculture.   The line of credit to TDB will also generally support
development  of manufacturing  and  agriculture.   In  designing  the
subprojects to be financed under the Multiproject, due attention has
been paid to Government priorities, technical feasibility, economic
viability and the state of project preparation; they have also been
formulated to ensure they are within the capacity of the implementing
agencies.
187.      TDB's institutional and operational aspects continue to be
satisfactory although TDB's accounting system and personnel policies
and procedures are in urgent need of strengthening. Apart from these
deficiencies, TDB has developed as a well-performing development
finance institution with potential for further growth and has a sound
financial position. Covenants to the proposed loan will ensure that
TDB will continue to maintain a sound financial position and will
encourage further improvement in TDB's profitability and a broadening
of its scope of activities.
188.      In addition to the standard provisions and requirements
Included in the Bank's loan documents, specific assurances have been
received from the Borrower with respect to the following:
A.  For the Multiproject:
(i) Each subproject will be subject to individual appraisal by
the Borrower and the financing of a subproject under the loan
will be conditional on the Bank's approval of the subproject on the
basis of the appraisal report submitted by the Borrower (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para 1).
(il)  By agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, subprojects
may be added to, or substituted for those subprojects listed in the
Attachment to Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement, provided that the



64
identification, preparation and implementation arrangements are carried
out in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Borrower aud the
Bank, and the required finap  ng for the Multiproject does not exceed
the amount of the Loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paras 1 and 2).
(iii)   No withdrawals will be made from the Loan Account for
expenditures incurred In carrying out work on Subproject Nos. 4 and 6
(Agricultural Acess Roads, 'Eua Island, and Rural Roads Improvement,
Tongatapu) until satisfactory evidence has been presented to the Bank
that an engineering charging system satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank will have been implemented with respect to these subprojects
by MOW [Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, para 5 (it)].
(iv)  Not later than one month after the consultants  to be
financed  under  the  Bank  technical  assistance  grant  for  the
Multiproject have completed their final report on the study to be
undertaken of the Tongatapu SIC rental structure, representatives of
the Borrower will meet with representatives of the Bank to develop
necessary revisions to the rental scheme for the Tongatapu SIC,
including a phased program for increasing rental fee levels which will
ensure that the Tongatapu SIC will operas, on a no-profit no-loss
basis (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 9).-
(v) The Borrower will institute a system of tariffs for use of
coastal port facilities in Tonga which will set tariff levels that:
(a) are, by the completion of Nafanua Harbour, adequate to recover at
least the cost of operation and maintenance of Nafanua Harbour; and
(b) are, within a period of time satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank, adequate to recover an agreed-upon percentage of the capital
cost of the coastal ports (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 15).
(vi) Within two months of the completion of the review of the
Government's interest rate policies, the Government will discuss the
report's recommendations with the Bank and will implement agreed-upon
changes within a timeframe satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreament,
Schedule 6, para 6).
B.   For the line of credit:
189. (i) In the event that Tonga's interest rate policy, law or
regulations are amended to allow higher lending rates to be charged by
TDB, the onlending rate will be reviewed and revised in consultation
with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 2; Project Agreement,
Schedule, para 2).
(ii)   Within three months of the completion of the consulting
services funded under the Bank technical assistance for reviewing
TDB's personnel management policies and procedures, the consultant's
recommendations will be discussed with the Bank (Project Agreement,
Schedule, para 9).
17  A similar covenant requires the Borrower to ensure that the
Vava'u SIC operates on a no-profit no-loss basis.



65
(MA)  As      initial  step  in  developing  a  wider  end  more
appropriate rnge of activites, TDB hs agreed to adopt en operatin
strateg   by 31 December 1986 that vili formaliz  a more specfic
profit objective for the flimcial yars 1987-1990 (Project Agreemnt,
Schedule, para 13).
(iv) To encouroge further improvemnts In TDB's collection
perfomnce, TDB will be required  to  meet minimum  anul cash
collectlon ratio targets of 70 per cent by the end of 1986 and 75 per
cent by the end of 1987. Also, In order to focus loan supervilso
efforts on TDB's hardcore arrears, TDB  il be required to reduce the
ratio of hardcore arrears to total portfolio to 3.0 per cent by the
and of 1986 and to 2.0 per cent by the end of 1987J (Project Agst
Schedule, para  11).  Except as  the  Bank may otherwie  agree,
couitusats will be balted in the event these targets are not not
(Loan Agre    t, Schedule 3, pare 9; Project Agreamt,  Schedule,
pares 11 (a) end 12).



66
LIST OF APPENDIXES
ApRendix                                                            Page
A.  Background
1      Tonga Telecomunications Commission                         68
2      Interest Rates Prevailing in Tonga                         69
3      Income Statement:  Tongatapu SIC                           70
B. The Multiproject
4      Nafanua Harbour Improvement, 'Rua Island                   71
5      Small Industries Centre, Vava'u                            73
6      Detailed Cost Estimates of the Multiproject                75
7      Amount of the Project to be Implemented
Under Different Procurement Procedures                   77
8      Implementation Schedule                                    78
9      Outline Terms of Reference for Appraisal of
Subprojects under Multiproject Loan and for
a Review of Government Interest Rate Policies            79
10      Outline Terms of Reference for Development of
Nafanua Harbour                                          87
11      Estimated Cost of Proposed Technical Assistance            90
12      Economic Evaluation of Nafanua Harbour and
Agricultural Access Roads on 'Eua Island                 91
C.   The Line of Credit
13      Outline Terms of Reference for Proposed Technical
Assistance to TDB                                       100
14      Cost Estimates for Proposed Technical Assistance
to TDB                                                  104
15      Statement of Operating Policies                           105
16      Members of Tonga Development Bank's
Board of Directors                                      110
17      Organization Chart for Tonga Development Bank             111
18      Analysis of Loan and Equity Investment Approvals          112



67
Appendix                                                            Paie
19      Equity Investment Portfolio                               113
20      Analysis of Approvals by Industrial Sector                114
21      Actual and Projected Income Statements                    115
22      Actual and Projected Balance Sheets                       116
23      Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements                 117
24      Details of Major Borrowings                               118
25      Analysis of Collection Performance and
Sectoral Analysis of Portfolio                          119
26      Analysis of Arrears                                       120
27      List of Major Assumptions for Financial
and Operational Projections                             121
28      Details of Previous Bank Loans                            123
29      Analysis of Subloans Provided Under
the EarlUer Bank Loans                                  124
30      Procurement by Country Under Previous Bank Loans           125
31      Compliance with Covenants Under
the Earlier Bank Loans                                  126



68
Appendix 1
TONGA TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
Profit and Loss Statement for the Year EndinR 30 June 198-
(T$)-
1985           1984
REVENUE
Telephone Meter Calls                        608,773         *53,852
Telephone Rental                             172,582         129,588
Radio Telephone Calls                         92,964          54,991
Connection Fees and Other Parges              29,175          19,189
Terminal Share & Royalties-                   184,040        358,646
Telegrams                                     88,841          79,449
Miscellaneous                                 106,869         41,685
TOTAL REVPNUE                              1,283,244       1,137,400
EXPENSES
Payroll                                      499,491         290,845
Utilities                                     74,447          40,208
Travelling & Transport                        66,725          36,968
Accommodation                                  10,913         60,646
Subscription & Donations                      21,250          14,813
Repair & Maintenance                         116,778         118,009
Legal & Audict$g Charges                      21,976          29,892
Depreciation-                                238,840         201,171
Amortisation of Consultancy Cost              43,231          43,231
Miscellaneous                                 42,879          67,157
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                          1,136,530         902*940
Operating Pro5)t Before Abnormal Item        146,714         234,640
Abnormal Item-                                52,992        _   _
Operating Profit After Abnormal Item          93,722         234,640
Prior Period Adjustment                        1,295           -
Operating Profit Before Tax                   92,427         234,640
Income Tax                                    23,107           -
Net Profit After Tax                          69,320        234,640
Dividend to Government                        34,660            -
Net Profit After Dlyidend Transferred
to General Reserve-                           34,660           -
a/ This refers to the first full year of the Commission's operation
as a Public Corporation.
b/   The Commission receives a 15 per cent share of the revenue earned
from the international calls operated by Cable & Wireless (UK)
under a franchise agreement.
c/   Calculated on the basis of historical costs.
d/  Mainly writing off obsolete stock.
e/   The debts of the previous Telegraphs and Telephones Department
were transferred to the Corporation as an Interest-free Treasury
Loan; no Interest charges are therefore shown in the accounts.
(Reference In text: page 10, para 24)



69
Appendix 2
INTEREST RATES PREVAILING IN TONGA
as of 31 December- 1985
(T and per cent)
BANK OF TONGA
Per Cent Per Annum
Under T$100,000
$100,000 and-over
Deposit Interest rate.
Savings accounts                  5.0       5.0
Term Deposits
3 months                     5.25      6.00
6 months                     5.50      6.25
12 months                     5.75      6.50
24 months                     6.00      6.50
36 months                     6.50      6.75
LendinS Rates (rates applying as from 1 July 1985)
Purpose
Housing   - ordinary              8.0
- Investment            10.0
Personal  - general purpose       9.5
- unsecured             9.5
- motor vehicle          9.5
Comercial- all loan               10.0
Overdrafts                        10.0
TONGA DEVOPEN  BAN
Top prioriy sectors
Below $2,000                           6.0 flat rate
$2,000 and above                       6.0 reducing balance
Bigh priority sectors
Below $2,000                           8.0 flat rate
$2,000 and above                       8.0 reducing balance
All other industrial and comercal lomn
Below $2,000                          10.0 flat rate
$2,000 and above                      10.0 reducing balance
(Reference in text: page 12, para 32)



19789           9/80      198/81       1981/82      1982/83      198/                       1916
A. Xpsmdn                                -          1,180       14,738      25,769        35,50       37,276       42,018       56935
0                                        4,375        11,822       19,208      1,660         25,369       28,716      29,163       3Z,750
-            -        3,121        1,367         1,766       3X26         4,516        2,800
o      1am af lad                        1,875         2,500        250         2,50          4,00D        4,00        Q4           4,0Q0
553           165          501           795         713        1l __
bb"toSal                        6,250        14,875       25,694      23,028        31,930       36,705      38,929       40,90
945        14A49       i_2_4                      27_4 __10 __                          37_
btl Fap MP=                     192935                  43.694       50,6272      59,514       63-515       060
at;qmmtfm bo   (Ddtdt)           (7,195)      (28,01)      (,)           4 (24(2006 (M                         (26M1)      (21,795)
Int a cm Dabe                       III         1,823111    2,611        3,491         7,711       8,518       UD, 88
a      11 m 0iit)             (7.30       (30,017)     C31567)      (28344)       (31,m)      (34,757)    (37939)       C34,9
Dt 8azvat             -                                    -            -           -             -            -           -            -
Cl         ciMM  of t  ftnt Do&t Ion star In 19O8, with nI=Mk    of VAUD36.
. , .. , . ~~~~~~~~~~



71
dpenix 4
Page I
NAFANUA HARBOUR IMPROV1MENT, 'EUA ISLAND
Nafanua Harbour is located on the West Coast of 'Eua Island.
The coastline In this area runs in a north-northeast/south-southwest
direction. The foreshore is made up of old coral reef material and
the harbor consists of a small basin in the foreshore. The basin is
part natural and it has been extended artificlal?; the present port
facilities are located in the extension. The basin is at the mouth of
a natural watercourse which only carries water during and after heavy
rain. A narrow channel through the coral connects the basin with the
open sea.  A section of reef between the natural basin and the
extension lies opposite the entrance channel and seriously restricts
the maneuvering room available for vessels entering and leaving the
harbor.   The coastline in the area is featureless and has no bays or
headlands.   The harbor entrance is consequently exposed and receives
no protection from waves, or swells from the sector between
north-northeast/south-southwest; this creates difficulties for vessels
entering and leaving the harbor.
The prevailing winds in the area are the southeast trades.
Winds from south through east to northeast, and of strength greater
than 10 knots, blow about 85 per cent of the time; average wind
strength from this sector is about 12 knots. The area is subject to
cyclonic weather from November/December to March.   The coast appears
to be periodically subject to heavy swells from the north/northeast.
These swells appear to be generated by east and southeast winds and
are refracted and/or diffracted around the northern tip of the island.
This swell, together with westerly wind waves, produce the vorst
conditions at the harbor entrance.
About five times a year, the harbor is closed to shipping
due to rough sea conditions, for about two days each time.  The
restricted room inside the harbor makes conditions worse when vessels
enter the thirbor with a following sea.   In such cases, vessels are
compelled to reduce ahead power earlier than desirable to enable tthem
to make a turning maneuver.
The vessels presently using the harbor are launches
approximately 15-18 m in length which carry both passengers and cargo;
a regular service is operated by the Shipping Corporation of Polynesia
in a vessel that carries 60 passengers and five tons of cargo. At
least four others are owned privately, or by local churches and serve
the port on an irregular basis. The Shipping Corporation of Polynesia
also operates an 18 m self-propelled barge-type vessel with a bow
loading ramp; it has a cargo-carrying capacity of 27 tons. A rough
estimate of present per annum cargo and passenger traffic through the
port is 30,000 passengers and 7,300 tons of cargo.
The present port facilities consist of two berths and a
loading/unloading ramp.  One berth, approximately  30 m  long, has
failed structurally and is used only by small fishing boats. The
(Reference in text: page 14, para 40 and page 19, para 51)



72
A_pendix 4
Page 2
other berth io appoxiately 25 a long and io used by the launches.
This berth has a siding derrick with a bhd wineb of about two tons
capacltye, but it appears to be little used. The loading romp is used
by the self-propelled barge. The harbor Is also used by several small
fishing boats and these supply fish to the local population. These
boats moor in the natural basin, some distance from the port
facilities.



73
Appendix 5
I(LL INDUSTRIES CENTRE, VAVA'U       Page 1
Selection of a Suitable Site for the Saall Industries Centre
Several sites were sugsted to the Missiong they are all
lot'at!ed to the North of Neiafu and have good road access.  However,
since the Sall Industries Contra (SIC) i  likely to be primrily
used to accomodate service industries (e.g., automotive repair.
servicng electrical appliancea, servlcing and repairing of moll
mschadcal equipmet, etc., it needs to be located close to the
built-up area In Neiafu. With this in mind, three sites were selected
for closer lmpection as follows:
A.  Situ Imediately adjacent to the town boundary
This site consists of two blocks of Goverment land with a
total area of over 13 acres.   Both blocks are currently  rented  by
private lindviduals.  The site has road access on t% sides. Laitone
road runs a1o" the eastern boundary and a legal road on the southern
boundary connects Laitoue road to the extesion of King Street which
Is the main road leading to the airport.
The site falls gently from one corner (northwest) to the
opposite  corner  (southeast).   There  are  soe  smll  rises  and
depresions, but these could be re8raded with a minimum of earthwork.
The lad Is not utilind apart from one relatively small section of
cltivatio     Vegetation cover consists of well-spaced trees with
scrub growth beneath. Site preparation would be miniml and would
inolve:  (1) claring of trees and vegetation  (ii) a mall amount of
ertbworks to trim building sites and ensure good drainge; and (iii)
construction of access roads. The Ministry of Works has equipment to
do this work and bas a quarry for supplying coral witbin two km of the
site.
A three-phase power supily (230V phase/neutral) is available
at the soutbast cornr of the site end the circuit appears to have
spare capacity. A three-phase (600V phase/neutral) supply is also
avalab1e close to the site and the line capacity could be readily
licreased. A 50-em water main with spare capacity runs within 100 m
of the suthern boundary of the site.  Avallablity of water could
also be radlly Increased from other mains in the vicinity.
B.  Site on the eastern side of the road to the aport.
This site consists of four blocks of Goverment lend with a
total area  of  33  acres.   It  gi  within  800  m  of  the  town
boundary and is immediatoly east of the extension of King Street
which rmu north to the airport. Access Is available from there and
from Laitone road. 'There s a samill on one of the blocks and part
of the land is being cultivated.
(Reference in text: page 19, para 49)



74
&2endix 5
The site is mostly evenly graded with gentle falls; there
are some steeper areas with large changes in level (up to 15-18 m)
in one corner. Vegetation cover is similar to site A. Water is
available from the same point as in the first site and the water main
would have to be extended--by about one km. Power is available along
the road adjacent to the site.
C. Site on the western side of the road to fzhe airgort.
This site consists of two blocks of Government land with a
total area of 16-1/2 acres.  It is on the western side of the road
leading to the airport, from which it gains access and is approximately
the same distance from the town boundary as site B. Some of the site
is under cultivation and the topography and vegetation cover is
similar to site B. Power and water are available as for site B.
All three  sites would be suitable for development of a
Small Industries Centre, but site A is considered the most suitable.



75
4Ppendix 6
Page 1
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES OF THE MULTIPROJECT
$ at end-1985 prices)
TOTAL
FOREIGN     . LOCAL      TOTAL
1. Small Industries Centre Expansion, Tongatapu
Land Clearing,Grading, Filling,    24,000        6,000      30,000
Demarcation of Plots
Construction of Access Roads &      32,000       8,000      40,000
Installation of Utilities
Stormnater Drain (0.25 km)           6,400        1,600       8,000
Two Factory Sheds (2*286 sq a)      72,000       48,000     120,000
One Nursery Building (429 sq m)    57,000        38,000      95,000
Warehouse/Admin. Office/Meeting    60,000        40,000     100,000
Room
Equipment                           12,000            0      12,000
Supervision by MOW (2.5 2)               0        9,825       9,825
Subtotal                      263,400     151,425      414,825
Contingencies (102)            26,340      15,143       41,483
2. Small Industries Centre Establishment, Vava'u
Land Clearing, Grading,              8,000        2,000      10,000
Demarcation of Plots aad Fencing
Construction of Access Roads        20,000        5,000      25,000
and Installation of Utilities
Two Multipurpose Buildings          75,000       50,000     125,000
(2*286 sq m) and an office
Vehicle and  Equipment              12,000            0      12,000
Supervision by MOW (2.5 2)               0        4,000       4,000
Subtotal                      115,000      61,000      176,000
Contingencies (10X)            11,500       6,100       17,600
3.  Nafanua Harbour Development, 'Eua Island
Site Establishment                   79680        7,680      15,360
Drilling/Blasting                   18,974        3,886      22,860
Excavation,Haulage and Sorting    279,000       21,000      300,000
Breakwaters                         28,830        2,170      31,000
Fil1 and Grading                    21,260        1,600      22,860
Forming Wharf                      156,000      44,000      200,000
Boat Ramp                           17,831        5,029      22,860
Subtotal                      529,574      85,366      614,940
Contingencies (15%)            79,436      12,805       92,241
(Reference in text:  page 21, para 55)



76
Appendix 6
Page 2
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES OF THE MULTIPROJECT
( at end-1985 Prices)
TOTAL
FOREIGN      LOCAL       TOTAL
4. Agricultural Access Roads, 'Eua Island
Clearing and Formation              31,200       7,800      39,000
Supplying Coral at Site             52,880      13,220      66,100
Construct Pavement                  15,920       3,980      19,900
Surcharge for Work on 'Eua (10%)   10,000        2,500      12,500
Overheads and Supervision (10X)      6,875       6,875      13,750
Subtotal                     116,875       34,375     151,250
Contingencies (101)            11,688       3,438      15,125
5.  Telecommunications System Upgrading, 'Rua Island
Automatic Exchange                  65,000           0      65,000
Exchange Building                    6,000       4,000      10,000
Radio and PCM Equipment            115,000           0     115,000
Standby Power Supply                10,000           0      10.000
Distribution Network                26,000           0      26,000
Lable Laying                             0       5,000       5,000
Tralning                             6,300           0       6,300
Engineering, Furnishing &           20,000           0      20,000
Installation
Subtotal                     248,300        9,000     257,300
Co-,^tingencies (5%)           12,415         450      12,865
6. Rural Roads Improvement, Tongatapu
Clearing and Formation              60,480      15,120      75,600
Supplying Coral at Site            162,480      40,620     203,100
Construct Pavement                  42,000      10,500      52,500
Overheads and Supervision (101)    16,560       16,560      33,120
Subtotal                     281,520       82,800     364,320
Contingencies (101)           28,152        8,280      36,432
Total Base Coat                  1,554,669     423,966   1,978,635
Physical Contingencies             169,531      46,215     215,746
Price Contingencies                249,399      52,337     301,736
Interest During Construction       22,159            0      22,159
Total-/                          19522.517   2.518.2
8/  Numbers do not add up exactly due to rounding.



77
Appedix 7
AMOUNT OF THE PROJECT TO B  D     E       NDER
DIFFRN PROCURBENUT RCDIS
(bse costs at end-1985 PRi5es)
ICB                                614S940             31.1
LCB                                450,000             22.8
Force Accou5ti/                    633,570             32.0
Proprietary Procurement            206,300             10.4
IS & Other                          73,825              3.7
Total Base Cost              I,978S635            100.0
a/ Incliideg DintallatIon work done by Tbga ElectrIC Por Board,
Tonga Water Board and Tonsa Toleeatic&tions          wlon.
(Reference in text: paeo 27, per 70)



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
OURATION (IN MONTHS
J I FlA   AMJ JA I     S jO iqN D  JA    F A    JN  J Aj  SO  NOiS   JAUA           J !JA  0II
1936                              13?             -                  .8S
A. SUB-PROJECTS
1. SIC EI.uFon                                                 A
-Site                              il DE A 
2. SIC E. bNsbme                                                      IC I    I- I
2   2. S C E  lE{ l l l C
j          Not3.mmlwm HwL~or Imuprowameram
4. Actitutal AcceRoads                                  IM                                                                                  c
5. tcsmm inRtio"n System                A          TJI      DE      C
up-ag                                Mm L     E   no      m        o
.l R Rsmo
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Ibaft TodmW AsionecC                        S
2. ARA TcdIAovsI su_maau
2.AOAB C = = = = = = T- =~~~~I   I     I I    I I I                                                          I 
SC -    otlw9  Cof_G=Ukts  A - Apprail                   C- Cor8tvctlwn and Spply of Equipmw n
FS- FidSw*fm              DE  O d b usslnuarn DOes i
CtS- Csuvttm Sem*Ion  T/A - T.idgAwswrd of Conta



79
Appendix 9
Page 1
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Appraisal of Subprogects Under Nultlprolect Loan
and for a Review of Government Interest Rate Policies
I.   Introduction
The Asian Development Bank is providing technical assistance
to assist the Government of Tonga to:  (i) assist the Ministry of
Works (MOW) to establish unit rates for road construction work carried
out on a force account basis; (ii) help prepare and implement selected
subprojects t3 be financed under the Bank's Third Multiproject loan;
and (iii) undertake a review of the Government's interest rate
policies.  The components to be included in the Multiproject have
already  been  tentatively  identified.   However,  if  any  of  these
subprojects turns out to be unsuitable for implementation, the
Government  may  delete  the  subproject  from  the  Multiproject.   A
substitute subproject may then be included in the Multiproject
provided that the Government and the Bank agree on its suitability.
In the case of such substitution, the Terms of Reference for Part A of
this technical assistance may be amended by aegotiation to include
work on the substitute subproject.
A firm of consultants will be appointed to undertake the
studies and other work to be financed under the technical assistance.
The consultants will report to the Secretary for Finance who will
coordinate the work of the consultants through a joint steering
committee comprising the Ministry of Works (MOW), the Ministry of
Labour, Commerce and Industries (MLCI) and the Central Planning
Department (CPD).
II. Objectives
The technical assistance will be undertaken in two Parts, as
follows:
Part A
Under Part A the consultants will:
(a) Establish unit rates for road construction work undertaken
by MOW.
(b) Prepare a Master Plan for development of the new eight-acre
SIC site in Ma'ufanga, Tongatapu and prepare specifications,
quantities and other necessary documents for development of
the site and coijtruction of two factory sheds and one
nursery building.-
1/  MOW will prequality tenderers, let tenders and provide construction
supervision.
(Reference in text: page 34, para 88, page 35, para 91
and page 37, para 96)



80
Appendix 9
Page 2
(c) Prepare a Master Plan for development of the 13-acre SIC
site  in  Neiafu,   Vava'u   and  prepare   specifications,
quantities and other necessary documents for development
of   the  M/te  and construction of two workshop/factory
buildings.-
(d) Review the rental fees charged at the Tongatapu SIC and make
recommendations regarding their level and structure; also
recommend suitable rental fees for use of the Vava'u SIC.
(e) Set priorities for the Government's five-year road
development program on Tongatapu and select about 30 km of
rural roads from this program to be Improved under the
Project.
Part B
Under Part B the consultants will:
(a) Assess the extent to which interest rates have been, and are
currently used as an economic policy instrument and review
the effectiveness of such use.
(b) Assess the extent to which interest rate levels have been
and are currently affecting national savings, consumption
and investment levels and the efficiency with which
investment expenditure is allocated.
(c) Define and assess the advantages that could be gained by the
Government's use of the interest rate as a policy instrument
for achiev.g its objectives under the fifth development
plan.   In  particular,  the  consultants will assess  the
potential advantages of using the interest rate to achieve
national   saving   targets   and   investment   targets   in
high-priority sectors.
(d) Recommend appropriate policy, legislative, regulatory and
administrative measures that could be initiated by the
Government. Such measures should promote the development of
financial markets within the Kingdom and lead to an interest
rate regime which would (i) encourage resource mobilization;
(ii) improve resource allocation by enabling the private
sector to respond more rapidly to market forces; (Ili)
strengthen the use of the interest r'ate as a policy
instrument;   (iv)   enhance   efficiency   in   financial
intermediation through requiring financial institutions to
more effectively meet the diverse needs of savers and
investors; and (v) lead to an activatiov of capital/money
markets.
1/   MOW will prequality tenderers, let tenders and provide construction
supervision.



81
Apefndlx 9
Page 3
III. cope of Work
Part A
1.  Unit Rates for Selected Construction Work
Unit rates are required for the road construction york
undertaken by MOW on a force account basis. The work will include,
among other things, the following tasks:
(a) Review of the existing charging procedures used by MOW --
particularly   those   for   charging   for   plant   and
equipment -- together with their proposals for revising them
to put them on a more commercial basis.
(b) Establishing a framework of cost headings Including
overheads for civil works, with all materials, plant and
labor  costs  allocated  for  work   under   each   heading
(including provision of design services, construction
supervision and general overheads).
Cc)  Establishing plant bire rates for MOW plat which cover all
costs (including depreciation, based on annual revalued
replacement costs) and costs for all other materials, plant
and labor.
(d) Using the above information, the consultants will arrive at
the best estimates of the cost per km of constructing
highways, trunk roads, feeder roads,     agricultural access
roads and other access roads on Tonsatapu, Vava'u and 'Rua
Island.
2. Master Plan for SIC on Tongatagu and Bid Document,o for New
Factory Sheds and Nursery Buildin&
The Master Plan will cover the eight-acre site which has not
yet been developed. The new buildings to be constructed (two factory
sheas and one nursery building) will be located on the existing
12-acre site. The work will include, among other things, the following
tasks:
(a) Review of the Master Plan used for development of the
existing 12-acre site and development of an appropriate
Master Plan for development of the adjacent 8-acre site.
The Master Plan must include access roads, utilities,
sewer connections, plot boundaries and other ncessary
facilities and be designed -- as far as possible - In a
way that protects and enhances the environment (e.g. by
preserving mature trees).



82
Page4
(b) Preparation of detailed drawings, specifications and
quantities suitable for use by NOW which will undertake the
site development work; in the case of utilities, the
drawings and specifications should be suitable for use by
Tongs    Electric  Power  Board,  Tonga  Telecommunications
Commission and the Tonga Water Board which will undertake
the work.
(c) Review of the existing building designs and discussion of
their suitability with prospective users Identified by the
Manager of the SIC and by MLCI. In the light of this, the
consultants will revise the designs as necessary.
(d) Preparation of bid documents for the two factory sheds and
one nursery building to enable these to be constructed unCzr
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures.
3.    Master Plan for SIC on Vava'u and Bid Documents for
Worshop/Facor-y Buildigs-
A 13-acre site will be acquired for the new SIC on Vava'u;
it is proposed to initially develop 8 acres of t4e site. Although the
eight-acre site could accommodate about 12 workshop buildings, it is
proposed    to   start   by       constructing    two    multi-purpose
workshop/factory buildings (286 sq m each), a small office and a
common washroom facility. The technical work to be undertaken will
Include, among other things, the following tasks:
(a) Preparation of a Master Plan for development of the entire
13-acre  site,  showing  access  roads,  utilities,  sewer
arrangements   (by  sept:'c tank),   plot  boundaries  and
other  necessary  facilities;   the development should be
designed to protect - and where possible - to enhance the
environment by protecting mature trees, etc..
(b) Preparation of detailed drawings, specifications and
quantities for development of the initial eight-acre site
suitable for use by MOW which will undertake the site
development work; similar documents will be prepared for
utilities; the work on the latter will be undertaken by the
Tonga Electric Power Board, the Tonga Water Board and Tonga
Telecommunications Commission.
(c) PreparLtion of detailed designs, specifications and bid
documents  for  the  two  multi-purpose  workshop/factory
buildings,  office  and washroom  facilities.   The  design
should pay special attention to economy, flexibility and the
local building vernacular.   The bid documents should be
prepared in a way that would allow the buildings to be
constructed under LCB procedures.



83
Appendix 9
Page 5
4.   Review of SIC Rentals and Recommendations
When  the  Tongstapu  SIC  was  first  established,  the
Government's objective was that it should not be subsidized, and that
it should operate on a no-profit no-loss basis. This has not been
realized; the sub-leases for the SIC, which may limit rent revisions
to once every five years, combined with the incidence of inflation,
has meant that rental levels have risen less rapidly than expenditure
and, as a result, the SIC now makes a significant loss. The purpose
of this Study is to review MLCI' s rental fee policy and to make
suggestions for consideration by the Government and the Bank. The
study will examine the following issues:
(a) How significant are rental payments for existing users of
the Tongatapu SIC? How do they compare with rental fees
outside this SIC? Are they an inducement to locate on this
SIC and would higher rentals be affordable?
(b) Could rentals be raised each year and still remain
consistent with the Land Act?
(c)  Would it be desirable to have a two-part tariff -- one
charge for the site and another for the building -- in which
the building rental was (i) revised each year; and (li) set
at a level to recover all costs to encourage sTZ users
to erect their own factory sheds? Would such an arrangement
(in the context of (b) above] require the Government to
write off some, or all of the site development costs?
(d)  Would rentals be more affordable for newcomers to a SIC if
there were a promotional rate (possibly 75 per cent of the
full rate) applicable for as long as the industry enjoyed
tax-free status?  Should the Government reimburse the SIC
concerned directly for such promotional inducements?
(e) What relationship should rentals at the SIC on Vava'u bear
to those at the SIC on Tongatapu?
(f) Finally, taking all the above into account, what rental fee
levels appear to be realistic and affordabls at each SIC and
over which time scale might they be introduced?



84
Appendix 9
Page 6
5. Identification of Roads to be Improved on Tongatapu
This subproject involves establishing investment priorities
for the roads to be improved under the Government's five-year road
development plan on Tongatapu.  The road improvements need to be
justified in economic terms by showing that the benefits of
improvement (in terms of vehicle operating cost savings, net induced
agricultural production and other benefits) give an economic internal
rate of return of at least nine per cent. In addition, this study is
expected to produce a simplified method of establishing improvement
priorities on roads where vehicle operating cost savings are the
dominant, or only source of benefits. The work to be undertaken will
Include, among other things, the following tasks:
(a) Review of the draft five-year road development program
prepared by the Government.
(b) Identification of the characteristics of the vehicle fleet,
selection of a range of typical vehiclee (cars, light
trucks, trucku and buses) and estimation or typical vehicle
operating costs.
(c) Relating these vehicle operating costs to roughness of the
road surface using the World Bank's HDM model, or the
Transport and Road Research Laboratory's RTIM model.
(d) Using these vehicle operating costs, together with the
typical cost of upgrading different classes of road prepared
by MOW (and updated in the light of item (1) of the Scope
of Workl, prepare charts, or tables showing vhen, in terms
of average traffic volumes, each class of road justifies
upgrading to the next higher standard.
(e)  Reviewing   the   trunk/access/feeder   roads   tentatively
Identified by the Government for improvement under the
five-year road program and, using the charts/tables
developed under (d) above, together with an assessment of
any induced agricultural production and other benefits,
recommend investment priorities.
(f) Selection of a package of roads, totalling about 30 km. for
improvement under this Multiproject Loan.
(g) Estimating the costs of improving this package of roads and
summarize the costs, benefits and internal rate of return
for each section of road.
(h) Checking each section of road to be improved to esteure that
all necessary precautions are taken to avoid any   adverse
environmental impact.



85
Appendix 9
Page 7
Part B
Review of Government Interest Rate Policies
(a) Determination of the present structure and levels of lending
and deposit interest rates prevailing in the Kingdom and in
those overseas financial markets currently holding financial
Investments and assets of Tongan citizens, Tongan legal
entities and the Government.
(b) Evaluation of the effects that interest rate levels within
the Kingdom have had and are having on saving levels, and
the likely effect on future saving levels of alternative
deposit interest rate regimes.
(c) Evaluation of the effect that interest rate levels within
the Kingdom have had and are having on levels of national
consumption and investment, and the likely effect on future
national consumption and investment levels of alternative
lending interest rate regimes.
(d) Identification and evaluation of the effect on national
income levels of inefficiencies in resource allocation that
may have occurred as a result of current interest rate
levels during the period of the Fourth Development Plan. In
particular, evaluation of the contribution of interest rate
levels to the underachievement of natiowal savings targets
and investment targets in high-priority sectors in terms of
the effect of this underachievement on current and future
national income levels.
(e) Definition and evaluation of the role that interest rate
levels could play as a more actively-used policy instrument
within the Government's overall economic policy framework.
In particular, evaluation of the the likely costs and
benefits of alternative interest rate scenarios that could
be promoted by the Government in its pursuit of economic
growth objectives during the period of the Fifth Development
Plan.
(f) Recomendation of administrative mechanism and procedures
for establishing and setting interest rate levels within
Tonga. Such mechanisms and procedures should encourage the
development of financial markets and market-determined
interest rates and should also take account of the possible
est&olisbment of a Central Bank.
(g) Development of a feasible program for the lplementation of
recommendations.



86
Appedix 9
.Page 13
IV. Consultant Services
The above consultant services will be carried out by a firm
recruited according to the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants.   The  firm  wili  submit  biodta  for  the  consultant
nominated to carry out Part B of the Terms of Reference; If the Bank
considers the biodata unsuitable, it reserves the right to recruit an
individual consultant to undertake this work. It is envisaged that
about 12 man-months of consultant services will be required covering
engineering costing, architectural design, cost accounting, rental fee
policy, transport economics and intere)st rate pollcy.   The consultant
services are expected to start in August 1986. Part A, item (1) of
the Scope of Work should be completed by the end of September 1986,
Part A, items (2), (3), (4) and (5) and Part B by the end of December
1986.



87
Appendix 10
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR DEmVLOPMENT OF
NAFANUA HARBOUR
I.   Tntroduction
Along with agricultural and other development on 'Eua
Island, the Government proposes to construct improved facilities at
Nafanua Harbour. Consulting services are required for development of
the project from site investigations and assessment of conditions,
to design of suitable facilities and supervision of the ensuing
construction. Construction of new facilities is to be financed by the
Bank, while the consulting services are to be financed under
Australian bilateral aid.
II. Scope of Work
The consulting services are to be provided in three phases:
Phase I covers site investigations and preparation of preliminary
designs; Phase II covers detailed engineering and, when relevant,
preparation of bid documents and provision of assistance for
pre-qualifying contraccors and evaluating bids; Phase III covers
construction supervision. At the end of Phase I, a tripartite meeting
will be convened among the Government,  representatives  from the
Australian Development Assistance Bureau, and the Bank to consider the
consultant's preliminary recommendations. The meeting will review the
alternatives proposed and will select the option to be studied in
further detail during Phase II.
The work to be undertaken by 1t9e consultants will include,
among other things, the following tasks:-
Part I
(i) Assessment of hydrographic data and data on sea conditions
collected by the Harbour and Wharves Department within the
Ministry of Finance.
(ii) Assembling of all available data (from the Central Planning
Department, the Shipping Corporation of Polynesla, etc.) on
cargo  and  passenger  movements  through  the  port,  and
preparation of forecasts of likely future traffic flows up
to the year 2006, taking account of the expected economic
development of 'Eua Island over this time period.
(iii) Carrying out of all necessary gootechnical investigations of
the site, including test drillings of the rock in the
harbor basin to establish, among other things, the best
method of excavation.
17   A preliminary engineering study prepared by Connel, Eddie, Riedel
& Byrne (International) is available on request.
(Reference in text: page 34, para 88 and page 35, para 92)



88
Appendix 10
Page 2
(iv) Based on the above data, preparation of preliminary designs
of alternative layouts of harbor and port facilities that
meet cargo and passenger needs at minimum cost, ensuring in
the procr?s t4at the designs minimize adverse environmental
impacts.-
(v) Preparation of preliminary engineering designs for all
necessary  structures  and  preparation  of  preliminary
estimates of construction costs for each layout; cost
estimates should be accurate within 20 per cent.
(vi) Evaluation, to the extent possible, of each of the
alternative  layouts,  describing  their  advantages  and
disadvantages  in  terms of:  (a)  service  to cargo and
passengers, vessel operation and cargo handling; (b) overall
cost and cost effectiveness; (c) flexibility in adapting to
different types/volumes of cargo; and (d) their ease of
construction.
(vii) Recommending the best method of having the new facilities
conatruc.ed, including: (a) letting the works as a single
construction contract awarded under the International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures of the ADB; (b) letting
the wrorks as a single construction contract awarded under
the International Shopping (IS) procedures of the ADB; (c)
dividing the works into several subcontracts to be let under
ICB or IS procedures; or (d) dividing the works into several
packagas to be let as subcontracts under ICB/IS procedures,
or    carried    out    by    force    account    by    MOW.
Part It
(i) Preparation of the final designs for all structures,
including wharves, wave protection structures, turning
basin, navigational aids, cargo storage areas, etc.
(ii) Preparation of engineering drawings, specifications and
quantities in sufficient detail to enable the work to be
carried out in the manner agreed-upon with the Bank at the
end of Phase I.
17  The preliminary engineering study carried out by Connel, Eddie,
Riedel  &  Byrne   includes  a  short  section  on  possible
environmental impacts; these should be taken into account in
preparing engineering designs.
2/   In  this  regard, the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement are to
be  followed at all times.  In particular, tender deposits,
performance bonds and other conditions should be consistent with
these guidelines.



89
Appendix 10
Page 3
(iiI) Where nternational Competitive Bidding proceduresY are to
be used, assisting the Ministry of Works In prequalifying
all  potential  contractors,  preparation  of  evaluation
criteria for use in the bid selection of contractors,
preparation of all bid documents (including General and
Special Conditions, Specifications, Schedule of Quantities,
etc.), ensuring that all necessary environueutal safeguards
identified in the design phase are Included In the
documents, preparation of reports on site Investigations for
use by tenderers, and assisting the Ministry of Works, as
necessary, in evaluating tenders.
Part III
(i) Providing site staff for supervision of construction and
administration of the contract. , It is expected that
selected Ministry of Works staff will be seconded to the
consultants for purposes of on-the-job training.
II1. Time Schedule
The servicern of the consultants are expected to start
Epprohimately In Septeiber 1986.  It is expected that Phase I will be
completed by the end of November 1986, and that Phase II will be
completed by about March 1987, The construction supervision (Phase
III) Is expected to start approximately In September 1987 and to last
about nine moutbs.



90
Appendix 11
ESTIMATED COST OF PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(15
A.   Bank Financing:
Foreign Exchange Cost:
1,  Remuneration                         137,000
2.  Internataqnal Travel                  19,000
°e  Per Diem-                             26,000
4.  Reports and Communication             10,000
5.  Contingencies (about 15 per cent)    29000
221,000
B. Government Financing:
Local Cost:
1. Office Accommodation, Counterpart
Services and Facilities                 7,000
2.  Local Travel for Site Visits
(car and domestic air fares)            4,500
3.  Local Communications                    2,000
4.  Contingencies (about 15 per cent)       2,500
16,000
TOTAL COST (A + B)                    237,000
a/   Calculated on the basis of $71.00 per day.
(Reference in text: page 36, para 93)



91
Appendix 12
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF NAFANUA HARBOUR AND
ABRICULTuRAL ACCESS ROADS ON 'EUA ISLAND
The lack of adequate harbor facilities on 'Eua Island
constrains development of the Island's agricultural resources.  The
harbor is small, has a dangerous entrance and provides no shelter
during rough weather. As a result, the only regular shipping services
connecting 'Eua Island to Nuku'alofa on Tongatapu are provided by
small, old vessels; newer vessels are unwilling to risk using the
harbor. The present vessels are loaded by hand; vegetables and other
goods are manhandled over the ship's rail and are then stacked on
deck.   Produce  is  frequently  damaged  during  the  course  of
loading/unloading and much of it reaches Nuku'alofa in poor condition.
Apart from top quality export bananas and copra which are shipped In
boxes and bags by the Commodities Board, farmers generally accompany
their produce to Nuku'alofa and sell it themselves in the main market
at Talamahu. The ships provide standing room only and the trip takes
three hours each way through rough seas. As a result,  only the most
determined farmers sell their surplus produce in Nuku'alofa.
Improved harbor facilities is a prerequisite to further
development of 'Eua Island. Provision of a safer entrance channel,
with appropriate navigational beacons, a small turning basin and
sheltered anchorage would make it possible to operate nawer and more
suitable vessels; they would not necessarily be larger, but the
service would probably be more frequent. Such services, particularly
if combined with equipment for loadIng/unloading produce, would result
in less wstage and spoilage, especially of fresh produce. It would
also enable farmers to get higher prices for their products in
Talamahu market. It is conservatively estimated that less wastage and
spoilage, combined with higher prices, would increase the value of
agricultural output by between 5 and 10 per cent.
Table 1 shows the amount of land currently allocated as
rural tax allotments that is being cultivated. It shows the area under
various crops, including fallow land, together with the average yield
associated with this type of cultivation. Table 2 shows the average
real price (1982-1986) for the major crops produced; the figures were
supplied by Central Planning Department (CPD) and, although some of
them relate to only a few mvwNhs in each year, CPD considers them
reasonaoly representative of thn year as a whole. Table 3 estimates
the impact of an average 7.5 per cent increase in output for the major
crop types.   The calculation  of net value added in the Table assumes
that Incremental  (paid)  labor inputs are  zero, that incremental
transport and yvrketing costs amount to about about 20 per cent of
market  value,-   and  that  other  costs  are  negligible.   These
assumptions are considered to be reasonable. The EIRR for the barbor
improvement is calculated in Table 4 using an economic life for the
1/ eased on a detailed study carried out by the Commodities Board:
'Bua Farm Project, 1986.
(Reference in text: page 37, pars 96)



92
Appendix 12
Page 2
harbor facilitles of 20 years. The costs shown in the Table include
detailed engineering and construction supervision (to be financed
by ADAB under parallel financing arrangements), civil works costs
(including contingencies) and operating and maintenance costs. The
benefits, In the form of the net value added estimated in Table 3, are
assumed to develop over a five-year gestation period after which they
remain constant. The resulting EIRR is 11.3 per cent which given the
conservative nature of the assumptions is considered satisfactory.
The 20 km of roads proposed to be constructed on 'Eua Islal
run along one side of an estimated 256 standard-sized allotmet t-
with a total land area of 855 ha. The alignments for these roads tsee
Map on page (v)J were selected aver studying large-scale, colored
aerial photographs of the Island;- the roads were then located to
provide access to those areas where:  (1) the bull type was kfp  to
be suitable for general cultivation, or for growing coconuts;- and
(ii) the photographs showed that half, or more of the area was
currently not under cultivation.  The aerial photographs showed that
land was intensively cultivated in the vicinity of existing
agricultural access roads. Cultivation drops off quite sharply away
from these roads and gives way to scrub containing limited pockets of
land which appear to be cultivated on a shifting basis by farmers who
have no legal title to th. land. This pattern of cultivation was
confirmed durlng the Appraisal Mission's field visit to 'Rue Island.
Since only about half the area affected by the new
agricultural access roads is currently cultivated, provision of
these roads ahould enable the other half to be cultivated as well.
Table 5 estimates what effect this is likely to have on the output of
the main crops grown on the Island.   tie  calculation  of net value
added  in  the  Table  makes  the fo'.lowing assumptions:  (i) each
addition# allotment cultivated requires an annual labor input of
T$2,000;- (ii) transport costs amount to about 20 per cent of market
value;  and    (1ii)  othex  inputs  (planting   materials,  seeds,
fertillers and pesticides) amount to about 25 per cent of market
value.-   These atsumptions are considered to be conservative.  The
EIRR of the new agricultural roads is calculated in Table 6 using an
economic life for the roads of ten years. The costs shown in the
Table include construction supervision, road construction costs,
routine road maintenance and periodic re-gravelling. The benefits, in
the form of the net value added estimated in Table 5, are assumed to
develop over a five-year gestation period after which they remain
constant. The resulting EIRR is 15.0 per cent which is considered to
be satisfactory.
1/  A standard allotment measures 8.25 acres (roughly 3.3 ha).
2/  At a scale of about 1:3000.
3/   Soils of 'Eua Island, New Zealand Soil Survey Report, 1983.
41   This corresponds to two laborers who are paid T$1000 each and
are also allowed to grow their own subsistence crops on the
allotment.
5/   Based on a detailed study carried out by the Commodities Board:
'Eua Farm Project, 1986.



93
rndx 12
Page 3
In view of the sisple nature of the above analysto of the
now agricultural access roads, and the rather conservative asumptions
used, no sensitivity analysis bas been corried out on these roads.
At 15.0 per cent the EIRR Is relatively high, ad the mjor risk -'
which is the possibility of delayed implementation - will have very
little effect on the EIRR.   The major risk associated with Nafanua
Harbour, Is the possibility of a cost overrun. The impact of this on
the EIRR has been tested by assming that civil works costs are 15
per cent higher than expected; this causes the tIRR to fall by 1.2 per
cent to 10.1 per cent which is still considered to be satisfactory.
There are no other major risks which might adversely affect the EIR.
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



94
Page 4
Table 1. Area Under        Ion. by Croo TvDe
and AL*r ae        onld. 'ea IslMad
(hectare and tone/ha/year)
Area Under Cuti~vatio~n         NoBt1ad
(ct }  (Per Cent Of     Yield
C r 0  Chetaresj!~ total alloagted)   (tons/a/veaIr)
Yaw                          196              6.9            10
Taro Tonga                   125              4e4            10
Taro Fortuna                 280              9.9            10
Tapioca                      178              6.3            10
Swet Potato                   45              1.6            10
Plantain                      21              0.7            10
Banana                        35              1.3            10
Giant Taro                     5              0.2            10
Corn                           1             -               2
Vegetables                     6              0.2            3
Vanlla                         8             0.3              1
Coconut                      980            34.6           0.5
Estimted Fallow             952             33.6            -
Total                2__32_/            100.0
a/  Basd on a survey carried out by staff of the Minstry  of
Agriculture. Forestry 8 Fisheries in May 1982; the area
cultivated Is not thought to have been affected by the cyclone.
b/ Taken from a report on agriculture In Tongp prepared by the Food
and Agiculture OrganizatIon.
C/  From Kindom Of Mm: Develent of 'Be Islad, U.N.
Developmnt Advlsory Toms, 1953.



95
Appendix 12
Page 5
Table 2. Prices of Main Agricultural Products
Talauahu Market. Nukulalofs
(T$ per kg)
P r i c ea/
1982   983k' 1984k    198S/    98d
Product          1982  1983E   1984               19861/ 1982-1986
Yaws                0.69  1.20     1.19     0.93     0.97     1.00
Taro Tonga          0.41  0.33     0.40     0.32     0.37     0.37
Taro Fortuna        0.38  0.34     0.40     0.22     0.22     0.31
Tapioca             0.20  0.19     0.15     0.05     0.09.    0.14
Sweet Potato        0.37  0.30     0.21     0.30    0.29      0.29
Platain             0.35  0.30     0.30     0.23     0.20     0.28
Banana                    -        -        -        0.23e/  0.23
Coconut (Copra)    -      -        -        -        0.30e/  0.30
_i  Market prices, adjusted to 1985 levels by the Consumer Price
Index for Food items.
b/  Mean prices for January-April.
_/  mean price for September.
dt  Moan price for Jauary.
.1   Prices paid by the Tonga Coumodities Board for export quality
bananas and for Grade A copra.



Table 3. Fatlmted Increase In Value Added as a Pesilt of ruprwed Hstbor Faclities
(T$ pere)
InfTu,e area of  TrAewta1 Viel t          rket Prlce         Value of           Cot Of             NTcrease
the led           in   l            of timil                                                      in valu
Harbr              Ara                                  ouWp 0x                                 of o£    x
hmetares)         (tows/bayear)       (  per Wg (W000 per year)  (W$'000 per year)            (T'W   per  yew)
Yams                         196                0.75                1.00               147.0                -
Ibro T4a                     125                0.75                0.37                34.7                -                  -
Taro Fbrba                   280                0.75                0.31                65.1                -                   -
qbpoca"                      178                0.75                0.14                18.7                -                   -
met Psto                      45                0.75                0.29                 9.8               -                   -
Mlantain                      21                0.75                0.28                 4.4                -                   -
snn0-n                        35                0.75                0.23                 6.0                _
rCoom,z (Qpra)               980                0.038               0.30                11.2                -                  _
btal                       1,860                -                   -                  296.9               59.4               237.5
a/  Fcm Tabe 1; uzh  rcrop md fAl w groud bwe bow   dtted.
b Ihis asane. an            in yields of 7.5 per cam due to the barbor luprovuwnt.
cPans Tabl !..
I   This sus thn are no Inaraemtal lbor costs, that "m;port/mmiattrg costs anxmt to 20 per cmt of inmiut value (fram 8a Oxoditts baDd
PAo;t, 'Rs F    ProJect, 1986) and that other ixpits are t4gligible.



97
Appendix 12
Page 7
Table 4. Calculation of Internal Rate of Return
on Nafanua Harbour Improvement
(US$)
Operatita &     Net Increase
Capital  MNantenance        in Val? of         Net
Costs§/       Costs         Output-         Bsnefits
1986            60.0                                          -60.0
1987           246.2            -                            -246.2
1988           581.0            -               -            -5810C
1989             -             15.0           33.9             18.9
1990              -            15.0            67.8            52,8
1991             -             15.0           101.7            86.7
1992             -             15.0           135.6          -120.6
'-93           -             15.0          169.6            154.6
1994              -            15.0          169.6            154.6
1995             -             15.0          169.6            154.6
1996             -             15.0          169.6            154.6
1997             -             15.0          169.6            154.6
1998              -            15.0          169.6            154.6
2000              -            15.0           169.6           154.6
2001              -            15.0           169.6           154.6
2002              -            15.0           169.6           154.6
2003              -            15.0           169.6           154.6
2004              -            15.0          169.6            154.6
2005             -             15.0          169.6            154.6
2006             -             15.0          169.6            154.6
2007              -            15.0          169.6            154.6
2008             -             15.0          169.6            154.6
2009             -             15.0          169.6            154.6
a/   Including detailed engineering and construction supervision.
i/ Assumes a five-year gestation period before all benefits are
realized.
KIRK e 11.3 per cent.



Mabe 5. Fatlaed bIcr e in Value         as a 8siult of Now Rd (biuctim
CL$ par year)
Tnhuie Area  Aea fipected        Fatimated. Yield   Mat Pie          Value of          Ct Of           Jit b     e
of the        to be Qltivated Ci NeIlm&  yatsd of                 rIead              hx"runuw1          In Value
dua to Prswm    a      lamt=Tuts-a                                                        of  ,a
(bectares)    of New P1ad        (           )   (  per         ('000 per yer)  (T$'000 per year)    '000 per er)
Yawu                      59.0              29.5            10              1.00            295.0               -                -
MarD Ibqa                 37.6              18.8            10             0.37              69.6               -               -
Ibro Fbrtuna              84.7             42.4             10             0.31             131.3               -               -
TSpicCS                   53.9             27.0             10             0.14              37.7               -               -
gent potato               13.7              6.9             10             0.29              19.9               -               -
Plantain                   6.0              3.0             10             0.28               8.4               -               -
rAnnna                    11.1              5.6             10             0.23              12.8               -               -
lbtal                    266.0             133.2            -              -                574.7             485.9             88.8
a/ Tbe 20 km of nw av icultral roads vll provide aoces to an estimgtd 256                aord-stizu atsll ts totalling 855 ba. Ihf  ma inKuer each crp is
calaiated fra Table 1;   a m cps, co0nat anid £fU    gm-d bwe been amned.
b/  Aerial ptog abs *bv that Only abt half the area affeed by the nw  roads Is crratly cultivated; tbese calculatimns asmam t*it provision of
- acrm roads uvulA enoble the otber half to be cltlivated as wiL
c,  PFku TIble 2.
I lebor inputs are estianted to mimt to I$2000 per aflobmt.                      cces amnt to about 20 per cent of wmrit value, t&isl otier
ilpsts amt tOD dxxit a further 20 per cet of wrist value (fron the Qxmvditias BoErd Report, 'Eua FaI Projea  1986).
c 0
aDf>



99
Appendix 12
Page 9
Table 6. Calculation of Internal Rate of Return
on Agricultural AcCess Roads
Operating &     Net Increase
Capit,t    Maintena?e       in Value c          Net
Costs_        Costs-           Output-'      Benefits
1987           151.3            -                             -151.3
1!88             -             10.0            12.7              2.7
1989             -             10.0            25.4             15.4
1990             -             10.0            38.1             28.1
1991             -             10.0            50.8             40.8
1992            40.0           10.0            63.4             13.4
1993             -             10.0            63.4             53.4
1994             -             10.0            63.4             53.4
1995             -             10.0            63.4             53.4
1996             -             10.0            63.4             53.4
1997             -             10.0            63.4             53.4
a/   Including construction supervision.
b/   Road maintenance costs are based on $500 per km, together with
$2000 per km for re-gravelling every five years.
c/  Assumes a five-year gestation period before all benefits are
realized.
EIRR - 15.0 per cent.



100
pendl13
OUTLINE TERMS OF REERENCE FOR PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TO TONGA DEVELOPMET  A       -
I.    Torms of Reference for the Desin, Specification and
Im_lomntation of Comuterized Accountln, Loan   n           and
hifomation Satems for theo   a Develo sent BiB
A.  Obaective
The objective of the proposed tochnical assistance is to
replace TDB's current mXally-operated loan administration, accountin
and operational statistics systems with fully-computerized systeme. The
technical assistance will utilize as a starting point the results of the
study of TDB'e electronic d*ta processing (EDP) requireonts undertaken
by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) during 1983.
B. Scope
The proposed technical assistance will undertake all necessary
tasks for the design and Implementation of an EDP system that will fully
replace TDB's current manual sy6tems and that fully meets TDBts
management information and reporting requirements. These tasks will
include systems design, programming and modification of software,
program testing, staff training, initial data input, Initial running
tests and bandover of the system in full running order. Hardware,
software and ancillary equipment purchase will be undertaken by TDB's
management In accordance with a pre-determined workplan for the
technical assistance project.
C. Detailed Terms of Reference
The consultants will:
1.  In consultation with the Finance Manager and TDB's senior
management, define necessary alterations and improveents to
TDB's current data processing and accounting system necessary
for fulfilling the various functions required of these systems
by TDB's operations and management.
2.   Undertake the detailed systems analysis necessary for the
computerization process.
3.   Select appropriate hardware and software that will meet the
systems' requirments. While having full regard for the
technical requlrments of the proposed system, the selectlon
process should facilitate the use of comparative pricing
procedures by TDB's manageent In the final selection of
equipment.
(Reference in text: page 43, para 119)



101
Appendlx 13
Page 2
4.  Make on-site preparations for installation of hardware, and
upon arrival, install and test all equipment.
5.   Install required software.
6. Undertake the detailed systems design required to integrate
the software purctased into the required Input/output systems.
7.  Undertake system programming and software modification as
required.
8.   Undertake necessary training of TDB staff to allow independent
operation of the new system by TDB without undue recourse to
outside expertise.
9.   Input initial data to facilitate comissioning of the new
systems.
10. Following confirmation of defect-free operation of the
systems, undertake for an appropriate period parallel running
of the new systems alongside the present manual systems.
11.  Handover the new systems on a fully-operational basis,
including provision of detailed operating manuals.
D.  Manpowr Keguirements and Time Schedule
The assistance will be provided by a team of at least two
consultants with extensive experienco and knowledge in the areas of
accounting, systems analysis and the implementation and operation of EDP
systoe. One member of the team should have appropriate staff training
experlence to enable the full development of TDB's staff capabilities to
operate the new systems.  TDB's Finace Manager and the other local
counterpart who will eventually be designated as EDP Manager will make
available at least half of their work time during the technical
assistance project in order to provide lialson between the operation of
the old and new system, and to assist with systems specification.
During the period of the technical assistance project, the Finance
Manager will prepare a detailed accountitg manual setting out the Bank's
accounting policies and procedures on the basis of the operation of the
new system.  It Is esitmted that the consulting team will require
eight man-months to complete the technical saistance project.
E. Usporting
The consultants will be required to prepare for 2DB and for
the Bank:
1. An inception report within one week of the beginning of field
work setting out a proposed work program.



102
Appendix 13
Page 3
2.   A final report at the completion of the study detailing the
consulting team's achievements in terms of the original work
program.
The consultants will also prepare other reports, as necessary,
for TDB's management to enable relevant decisions to be made.
II. Terms of Reference for a Review of Tonga Development Bank's
Personnel Management Policies
A.   Objective
The objectives of the review are to provide an informed basis
for establishing personnel management policies, systems and procedures
that will enable TDB's management to maintain closer control of staffing
levels within the context of pre-determined budgets and plans, to
improve staff development planning procedures and to overcome the
recruitment problems currently being experienced.
B.   Scope
The review will focus initially on the manner in which TDB's
personnel management functions are organized, Including the place of
personnel management functions within TDB's organitational structure.
It will then undertake an all-encompassing review of TDh's current
personnel recruitments staff planning, performance review, remuneration
and staff development policies and procedures with the objective of
identifying areas for improvement that would enable TDB's management to
seek improved utilization of its staff resource and a reduction in
operating costs, strengthening of staff resources In area, that are
currently deficient, a more structured approach to developing staff
resources to meet TDB's current and future needs, and the development of
a well-defined career path for personnel.
C.   Detailed Terms of Reference
The consultant will:
1.  Define the current personnel managemnt policies and
procedures followed by TDB.
2. Within the context of the staffing procedures of Institutions
similar to TDB, and taking into account the particular
characteristics of TDB's operations, define a procedure for
measuring the staffing requirements of the various functional
areas of TDB's operation that will allow TDB to operate
efficiently at current and projected levels of operation.



103
oppzdi 13
Pass 4
3.  Evaluate the effectivenees of TDI's current personnel
emnt  policies and procedures In match#& TDh's staff
resources to Its requirements,
4.  Identify area for Improvement In ThD'a personnl mangement
policies and procedures, and in consultation with TDB's
managment, develop appropriate procedures for tbese ar"s.
Iu developing such procedures, the cosultante's task wili be
to undertake all analysis necess"ry for making recemedations
to TDE's Board of Directors regarding policy chages. In
addition, the consultant will be required to doesg
appropriate procedures that will allowe TDB to mplemet
Improved persomel management system  and procedures during
and at the completion of the technical assistance.
D. Manpoer RequiremenLts and Tim. Schedule
The assistance will be provided by one consultant with
extensive knowledge and experience in determination of personnl
managment policies, operation of personel m           procedures and
staff development prograe. The consultant will also have extensive
experience In the operation of development finance Instltutions and/or
similar intitutions. TDB's Administration Manager will be required to
work closely with the consultant on a counterpart basis. It is
estImted that the consultant will require two na-months to complete
the assignment.
E.   Meortjn
The consultant will be required to prepare for TDB's management
and the Bank:
1l An inceptleon report whicb sets out a proposd work program
within one week of the begInn   of field work.
2.  An Interim report following completion of Items (1), (2) and
(3) of the detailed terms of reference; this reprt will
detail conclusions and recoienntlons and set out a revised
work program for completlon of the assoi   t.
3. A final report at the completion of the study. A draft of
this report wll be made available to ThD's manag    t and the
Baok for discussion before completio. The finl report
sbould be submitted simultaneously to TDB and th Beank within
three mnths of the comne   of work on the revie.
The consultant should be prepared to participate In a
tripartite meeting with representatives of teb a    and TI's ama ment
a the eand of the as      t.



104                                A2pendix 14
TWA MNrN BA
Cost a*Afor                ; I~  I  yve Toui 3'r A*1 t    to IB
1suls of lrmm                               O
_ eBMt &oii                  AEV
A.  LmVoM  2!2! T cd~ost
P_Cicn                                     23,000                      92,000
Per dim a lume                                  4,500                      17,0OO
trae                              2,500                       5,000
as                                   5 000                      11,000
125,000
B.  Imlan            u
DC 6 er ~~~~~~500                                               1,000
Office              an
secretaial                                    1,000                       4,000
500                       1,000
Total (A + B)                                  37#000                     131,000
tal       X                   X                                        %
Bgnk TA,           160,000         95.2       35,000         94.5         125,000        95.4
1B                   8 000          4.8        2 000          5.5           6,000         4A
(eferece    tet  pe 4m   11)M
(Reference in text: page 43, para 119)



105
Appendix 15
Page 1
TONGA DEVLOPMENT BAIK
Statemnto GEraMcfios
A.  The Bank
Tonga Development Bank was established under the Tonga
Development Bank Act 1977 as an independent statutory body. The
functions of the Bank are to promote the expansion of the economy of
Tonga for the economic and social advancemat of the people of Tonga by
giving financial and advisory assistance In Its discretion to any
enterprise operating or about to operate In Tonga.
In carrying out its functions the Bank will be guided by the
following general operational, fimacial and promotlonal policies.
B.   Scoe of Activities
1.  The Bank will conduct its operations within the gneral frameork
of the Government's economic policies, plans and priorities.
2. Although the primary role of the Bank is to promote economic
development and production In the private sector, the existence of
Government or other public ownership In an enterprise will not
preclude that enterprise from being assisted by the Bank.
3.   The Bank will finance projects aimed at increasig production and
development in the fields of agriculture including horticulture,
livestock and fishing; timber extraction and reforestation;
quarrying, industry, manufacture and processing of all kinds;
tourism; commerce; transport and comuncation; and service
Industries including professions.
4.   The Bank will finance both new enterprises and the expansion or
modernization of existing enterprises (the work "enterprise" as
used In this Policy Statement having the same ueaning as is defined
in the Tonga Development Bank Act 1977 and includes cooperatives
and community activities). Particular attention will be given to
promotion of the entry of new entrepreneurs into the field of
productive endeavour and the development of managerial and
entrepreneurial skills6
5.   The Bank will provide financial and other fonm  of assistance in
the following ways:
(a) extending loans;
(b) making equity participation;
(e) guaranteeing the finance provided by other sources;
(d)  providing tecanicals, managerial and financial
consultancy services;
(e) assisting In the identification, formulation and
promotion of new projects.
(Reference in text: page 45, para 126)



106
Appndix15
Page2
6. The Bank's financial assistance will be primarill for the
acquisition of fixed assets. However, the Bank may in deserving
caes also finance seasonal and short-term credit requirements in
the agricultural sector as well as working capital requirements in
any sector.
C.   Development Policies and Operatlin  Princlles
7. It will be one of the Bank's important aims to investigate and
identlfy investment opportunities, and to promote and assist In the
establishment of enterprises of Importance to the economy.
8. In addition to the operating principles mentioned under Section 6
of the Development Bank Act 1977, the Bank will also give
preference, in determining whether or not assistance is to be given
to any enterprise, to enterprises which will- -
(a) use local raw materials in processing and muaufacture;
(b) make use of labor intensive technologies and provide more
opportunities for employment and training of local people;
(c) contribute effectively to broadening the base of local
entrepreneurship and ownersihip;
(d) have a good potential for expanding exports or decreasing
Imports;
(e) lower costs and improve the efficiency or standards of goods
and services;
(f) lead to an increase in the incomes and living standards of
people, particularly of those at the village or grass roots
level.
9. The Bank will carry out its operations as a development finance
institution in accordance with sound banking and business
practices.
10. The Bank will provide financial assistance only to those projects
which, on the basis of its own analysis, appear to be economically
justified, technically feasible, financially viable and
profitable. Special attention will be given to the quality of
managsemnt of the enterprise and to the market prospects of the
project.
11. The Bank will eadeavour to secure its loans and gusrantees In
accordance with sound banking practices, but in doing so the Bank
will have due regard to its functional requirement to promote the
economy for the economic and social advancement of the people of
Tonga.
12. Applicats will be required to provide a reasonable equity in the
enterprise to ensure that they have an appropriate stake In their
own venture. They will also have to ensure that the total
financial requirement for the successful implementation of the
project will be available.



107
AMndlx 15
Page 3
13. The Bank will ensure, in making its financial assistance available
to any borrower, that the financial requirement for the completion
and commissioning of the project is appropriately covered,
Including due allowance for possible cost overruns.
14. Normally, loans will be disbursed after the promoter has made his
own financial contribution to the project and after ensuring that
such disbursement is in accord with the requirements of the
financial plan approved for the project.
15. The repayment period of a loan made by the Bank, Including a grace
period as appropriate and needed, will be determined taklng into
account;
(a) the repayment capacity of the enterprise;
(b) a reasonable payout to the promoter during the term of the
loan; and
(c) the optimum use of the Bank's own funds In maximizing the
turnover of Its portfolio.
16. The Bank will supervise closely the use of its funds, the progress
of the project financed and the performance of the enterprise, to
ensure that remedial action is taken promptly should circumstances
so warrant.
17. The Boak will require its borrowers to keep records and accounts in
accordance with sound and generally accepted accounting principles,
and to furnish whatever Information on their operations and
accounts that it deems appropriate. The Bank will also maittain
the right to inspect the enterprises it finances, as well as their
operations, records and books of accounts.
18. The Bank will endeavour to assist farmers and entrepreneurs with
the provision of managerial, financial, technical and other
advisory services. It is the aim of the Bank to help its borrowers
towards the successful completion of their projects.
19. The Bank will continue to build up an effective organization and
develop an adequate and technically qualified staff, In order to
carry out its functions efficiently and to assist its clients In
the formulation and conduct of their projects.
20. Business secrets and other private information furnished to the
Bank by clients will be treated as confidential.
D. Diversification of Portfolio
21. In order to reduce the concentration of risk, the Bank will seek to
diversify its portfolio by sectors of operation and by avolding
Inappropriately large livestment in any one project. In view of
its developmental function, the Bank will also pursue geographical
diversification of its portfolio.



108
Appendlx 15
Page 4
22. The Bank's equity investments shall service mainly as a catalytic
agent for the establishment as well as for the expansion of
enterprises. The Bank will normally dispose of such investments to
Tongan nationals when appropriate. The Bank's equity investment
shall not normally exceed 25 per cent of the paid In capital of the
assisted enterprise.
23. The Bank will not normally commit to a single enterprise in the
form of equity participation more than 10 per cent of its
unimpaired paid in 3hare Capital and Reserve Fund. The aggregate
equity investment of the Bank at any time shall not exceed 25 per
cent of It paid in Share Capital and Reserve Fund.
24. The Bank's total comuitment in the form of loans, equity investment
and guarantees in a single project or enterprise shall not exceed;
(a) 25 per cent of the total of the Bank's unimpaired Share
Capital and Reserve Fund; and
(b) 75 per cent of the tangible assets of such enterprise
including the Bank's own investment.
25. In exceptional cases meriting special consideration, limits under
Clause 24 (b) may be exceeded provided the loan is covered by
adequate additional security over assets not forming part of the
project.
26. In financing worthwhile projects requiring more than its maximum
lending limits under Clause 24, the Bank may seek a syndicated
cooperation of other institutions, both domestic and foreign,
limiting the Bank's liability in such cases to the ceiling referred
to under such Clause.
E.   Financial Guidelines
27.  The Bank will review and determine from time to time the rate of
interest and fees to be applied to Its advances in the light of
prevailing Government policy and developments in the capital
market, with due consideration to the costs of its own borrowings.
28. The Bank will not carry the exchange risk on its debts payable in
foreign currency.
29. The Bank will not seek to take a controlling interest or management
of any enterprise in which it has invested, other than by
representation on the board of directors (or similar committee) In
appropriate cases. However, should it become necessary to protect
its own interest, the Bank may take such action as it considers
appropriate In the circumstances.



109
30. The Bank will not undertake long-term borrowing obligationso,
including guarantees, that In the aggregate would exceed three
times the total of Its unimpaired paid In Share Capltal and Reserve
Fund.
31. The Bank will maintain accounting records adequate to reflect ib
business operations In accordance with sound and geerally accepted
accounting principles and practices.
F.  Provisions and Reserves
32. The Bank shall set aside in each year at least 50 per cent of its
operating profit In that year as a provision against bad and
doubtful debts until such tiae as the provisioons equal 10 per cent
of its loans, equity investments and gurantees outstanding, and
will thereafter set aside annually such amounts as are sufficient
to maintain the provisions at least at that level.
33. The Bank shall set aside annually to its General Reserve the whole
of its net income during the first five year of its operation and,
thereafter annually, at least 50 per cent of its net Icome until
such tire as its General Reserve Is equal to the asount of its paid
in Share Capital.



110
Appendix 16
TONGA DEVELOPMT BANK
Members of the Board of Directors
(As of 31 December 1985)
Name                    Date of Appointment           Occupation
1. Non. James C. Cocker      20 March 1982                Minister of
Finance
2. Baron Vaea                3 September 1984             Minister of
Labor, Commerce
& Industries
3. Tomasi T. Simiki           5 August 1977               Director of
Agriculture
4,  Tsutouu Nakao            28 November 1977             Businesman
5. Masao Soakai              5 August 1977                Businessman
6. Selwyn Jones               1 November 1984             Secretary of
Finance
7. Peter Jones               27 February 1985             Chief Manager,
Bank of Tonga
8. Lisiate 'A. 'Akolo         19 March 1982               Managing
Director
(Reference in text: page 45, para 127)



,-:MA JE: ;b4 ^A?K
Was~~~~s  l' >t
- -    rn~ 1                                          K
LCAIS  toAm GFRMU   U-
[       i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
1~.   1                                  a...1            ,                           g1
~~, ,ha                        L _,m       |  "_*U .AW                        S*U                  -
r---~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~lfeec in- text:z ---e -5 pr 128)



112
Jauyi of 1udv1maa1   ppwl
PTO 1981 - 198
FY ailing 31 DeIuer         lb.  AMM        No.    / ut     .   h       o. h¢mt  No.   h
AcorEgm to Sector
Agritdture                2,728   1,261   2,956  1,707 2,233  1,300 2,544  1,967  2,488  1,880
I&Ustry andl bwizm         348  1,223    427  1,134   313 1,133   370  1,462   303 1,690
Staff                       71      78      39     38   103    47   180    98   270   128
Accordir~ to D~e of UorOM
HurTican_ rb-                        -    673    232       -      -     -      -      -     -
Nw borrowers              1,466    907  1,062    801   805   867   949 1,447   944 1,202
Repeat borr                920    410  1,051    515 1,197   458 1,471   761 1,766   883
Coest oaerrw               279      44    208      56    17       6     -      -      -     -
"Aim ltW" Secmd            374    489    287    598   383   535   584   972   306 1,090
"Aim W1i" lhidl             87    290    114    468   145   249         -      -      -     -
"Alm Htt" Fouth             21    422       22    195    73   331       -      -      -     -
"Alm IW I Pfth               -       -       5      14    27    30    84   295    44   i18
"Alm HWl  Sixth              -       -      -       -      1      2     -      -      -     -
"Aim IiW" Seventh-t          -       -       -      -      1      2     5    17       1     5
Others                       -       -       -      -      -      -      1    35      -     -
3,147  2=6   3,422  2,2W 2 2,64            T.    3=52  -3,0rT,61  9 8
Accordlrg to 2!qdcaEl locatict.
TuatqxW                   2,201   1,773  2,263  1,955 1,436  1,810  1,889 2,553  1,835 2,726
lk'pai                     231    107    228    109   331    95   216   119   313   149
Vava'u                     595    632    627    724   610   479   714   710   548   666
Others                      120     50    304      91   m        96   275   145   365   157
to"d   SIze
up to $1,000             2,886    680  3,108    796 2,379   702 2,621   875 2,680   837
Mhm to $2,500               111    170    156    254   146   237   233   359   214   334
Tha to $5,000                -       -      -       -    68   267   118   461    65   250
hen to $10,000             127    650    131    559    32   233    86   587    64   440
Thm to$ 50,0CD              19    491       20    518    19   401    29   596    28   449
Ihn to $100,000              2    121        2    105      -      -     7   649       3   246
MW er$100,000                2    45D        5    647      5   640      -      -      7 1,142
Up to I yeaw              2,022    764  1,694    630 1,385   527  1,300   654 1,429   715
Ihb  to  2 year            946    516  1,404    655  1,043   595  1,352   868 1,282   774
Thi to  3 years             134    480    267    540   178   588   365 1,007   288   811
lhn to 5years               31    273       42    573    35   324    55   354    47   605
hlntoDl0ye6rs                8    420        7    265      6   425    17   518    13   771
Oer lOgyes                   5      84       8    216      1      1     4    91       2    22
E ty         1s              I      25      -       -      1    2D      1    35       -     -
,W7 TV3B TM  !E TW I                             3 T27 3,61- :3
(Reference in text:  page 50, para 144)



113
Appendix 1¶'
I  ii~~~I
N
IQI~
i
Hi:  10:12   B                    N~~~ Ic~
4~~~a
(Reference in text: page 50, para 146)



Ta     IELi T B}
hiulysls of 4~provds b~y lz-trial Sector
lYe 1981 - 1965
1981               1982             1983            1984              1985           TOl
Ammt  Percet  Amouct Perf w  Nroui   Amut  Pe;;;;,;  Alx   Peru    Amm                            ecn
Agr~icuure TI
{D   Root crops, Sies, fruits
*   ~viand v    1t                  308      12.0     422    14.7      460    18.5   1,591    45.1   1,352    36.6   4,133    27.3
Fa pl.t, tools
td e*  amndegt 680                    26.5     952    33.1      668    26.9       18      0.5       9      0.2   2,327    15.4
|t   IYAi~lb                       177      6.9      197      6.3     141      5.7     244      6.9     277      7.5   1,036      6.8
,*t  IIvestck                       96       3.8     136      4.7      31      1.3     114      3.2     242      6.5     619      4.1
Stow                       1,261     49.2   153   1,300    32                  1,967    55.8    T§ 50.8 8,115    53.6                 _
*-                                                                                               -               _
I=sIwtry and  msImes s.
*    Rewtal, viiasale trade         247      9.6      451    15.7      280    11.3      615    17.4      278      7-5   1,671    12.4
v       t    aot" "e and bhtels     398      15.5      65      2.3      14      0.6     264      7.5     437    11.8   1,178       7.8
7    SsTrmport ad stoxne            200       7.8     259      9.0     273    11.0      310      8.8      165     4.5   1,207      7.9
.s   1q:uinzfacter1                 216      8.4       88     3.0      432    17.4      116     3.3      677    18.3   1,529    10.1
.i   Otbers                         162       6.3     271      9.4     134      5.4     157      4.4     133      3.6     857      5.6
b Siss-*cl~~~~~122                  47.7   T,5 1,13 4  X      .M      W7S  =,462    r-45.,M             -77    =4        43.8
VI
Z    Staff Tinw                      78       3.1      38      1.3      47      1.9      9B      2.8    1i        3.5     389      2.6
Total                      2ID62    100.0   2.879   100.0       °      1000   3.527         0   3                15.46   100.0



115
21
Actual and Projeted        StatmIts
FYs 1981-1990
Actual           ofProjected
Year menft  31 Dsoabe             1981  1982  1983  1984 1985 1986   1987   1988  1989               90
Lierest anloa                   218   299   375   405   517   656    746    831   954   1,116
Tnterest an'                     63    47    46    42    57    73          85     68    39        26
DI)videns                         2      2      2     7      3      3       3      3      4        4
ote                               9    22    38    79    75    72          90     91   100       118
Total Tncame                  29    3i    33                                   W N  W    1,097  1TW
P.rtx      --l                  104   130   158   217   265   336    357    381   406            447
Odw  _Midstratim eqxmm           48    52    72   100   114   115    129    138   152            169
13    14    34    43    44    54         59      57    48        51
Total               .1.es     I        1 i ^         M 360        W              357     B       W
Provsin for d1tfu nacomts           53    69    94    65    89   115    157    124   L52            191
CDst of£bormz                       57    71    72    86    110   146    170    178   194           222
Total lcpues                   7          336    W  511   622   766   7 W5    95-2 
Iixtat                                                                               74    94       121
NetrPmfit                      17            31    22   -3      38       52     1F    -I        _
atlos:
Reitur catavr  eqity M)         1.1   1.3   1.1   0.7   0.9   1.0    1.3    1.0   1.2            1.3
Adm. .pwes/aw. totl
portfolio (1b                 6.9   6.0   6.7   7.5   7.0   7.2    6.8    6.4   5.9            5.5
Interest sd    b                6.1   6.3   6.8   5.6   5.8   6.6    6.7    6.7   6.6            6.6
Erg spredS                      7.7   7.1   8.1   7.6   8.2   8.2    8.1    8.2   8.3            8.3
a/ UwAited.
b    nterest       Ca lam portfolo        _ erst
hAV  Lam pErio                          v. borrwiz4
cl                       Total i                               interest Am  diidmd plid
Ai. him po+br     + bea diasIts + eA. bonmwl%o + eqi
(Reference in text: page 54, para 161)



116
?WG  WevELM 1 DM                             Appendix 22
Acla im  Peced  , e ,, ,tSh
lye 1981-1990
C!00oo)
Year eua 31 Doh11                             98             1984  -I9W      1986   1987   1988  1989  1990
CO&    h lWd       Inban             3       13    421    341    338    422    203    227   255   273
Short-tlln uvssunt                 725    t        525    50(    950   1,300   1,300    800   400   400
1amns Xoeivble vdtn an yew  1,686   1,621   1,561   2,318   2,207   3,385   3,410   3,257  3,170 3,615
Accouts receivables &
Pray.}te                          25       18     34      67      45      70      75      75    80    80
Toti QAumt Asts                  T2,4   -2,613   ;T    3,2    3,540  3157  T,9           4,r 339       4,368
I                                2,790   3,707   4,104  5,559   6,322   7,490  8,210  9,722 10,814 12,674
Bqui t                              83      82      32      67      67     117    167    242   317   392
TOal Ptfolio                     2,87    3,789  ;3    5,626   6,389   7,0    8;77   9.5-19  =1TT,6 
tos: Ptwvlim for &uhtful
eco0                        206    271      243    307    396    511    688    792   944  1,135
'am --aei,bJe wltbid
one   r                    1 686   1 627   1,561   2,318   2,207   3,385  3,41    3,257  3 170  3,615
Total NetTkroio        9&                       D O, 1 3,0 3,786 MI3,        1 4W 5 ,703  7,017        8,316
Find Aaets                            315    672    806    819    823    898   1 017    973   934   934
Total Asse;t                  3         =5,176   5    767       ; 8,4          fiB    10,802,8     13,618
L15UfmU  AND Y
OXM=t Uei3±ltiAS
Emkwedz ef                          44      42      34     125      -       -       -       -     -      -
Acw4te payble'                      69      93      86    296    275    200    190    232   214   333
Tom botrwphdus 
vitbha   as yew                    -      24     177    201    206    274    309    399   547   65
Pwiali for lt1o*s                    -       -       -       -       -       -       -      74    94   121
Total Ozreat L1ttiItN D   !W1B                                            M 9            79  EN3 TW
Bmeumm (AM)         1,117   1,265   1,265   1,744  2,038   2,451   2,317   2,179  2,012  1,816
Qivemnm  (1%                       550    550    527    502    453    402    349    295   239   183
Goer t (Aitulia)                   250    25r    250    250    250    250    250    222   193   163
hwpemi  Cdc 01 3m1ty               133      133    133     1       1       133     133    133   131   127
aEin Iwesuot Bu t                    -     286    286    534    844   1,057    995    931   811   688
BUIk ofTlh                           -       -     250    225    200    175    150    125   100    75
I=D                                  -       -       -       -     338   1,020   1,02D   1,020  1,02D   907
Pim b ordp                               2                                 300    950   1,500  255   4,1IO
Total lorTom Liabilities         2.          2, 711   3,388 3;7 ,                  1        7,M
le*.  Due vithin con r               -      24    177  201    20 6         274    309    399   547   605
Total Not 1cTGM Ud3itlas                         2,S4 TM   I     4,050  51           3g    6%   6,i  7;
Srha  Capitl                     1,527   2,478   2,738  3,105  3,456   3,598   3,698  3,M8  4,148 4,698
Gl rem/arstnm
profits                           44      79    110    132    162    20D    252    293   344   407
Tt  I1ity                        T3.!  2,557  T.=    3,237  3,618   3,798  T;   4,9    ; ff  31,M
Total LtablJ±das a       Ity     3,734   5,176   5,679 7,046  8,149   9,786  10,3   10,802    8   13,618
Netics:
WW*d.t  ato  bJ                    1.3:1   1.0:1  0.9:#1  1.0:1  1.1:1  1.5:1   1.5:1   1.5:1  1.4:1  1.5sl
QEYIt ratio c/                  21.6:1  16.4:1  8.6:1   5.2:1   7.4:1  10.9:1  10.0:1  6.2:1  4.6:1 4.1:1
.1TOW;34rst                  Ial  tiptsan l.            o
Orrmt Ama                       (Reference in text:  page 54, para 161)
asrr  i i.



117
243
C"1000)
Actual    ,rolectea
Year 1uMh  31 Dww                  11982  1             4         18    197   198i  1989    1990
Net Pzdfit (befor pwidsm)  70   103   125    86   119   153    209    239   297                375
I     etot                      -      -      -     -      -      -       -     (74)  (94)   (121)
N    _m-cad s                   13    14    34    43    44    54         59      57    48       51
CoLlctim of pricpal          1,348  1,565  1,534  1,327 2,275 2,243  3,08   3,102 3,046   3,187
antee  an barr p               57    n       72    86   110   146    174     178   186         222
h,aMUb fcr &bt euvecinT TWT75  ;7l  Tom I;U T;                                3,5T    TI   T714
-Ism  In pai-1n cqdal              -   951    26   367   351   142    100    100   350            550
ikubm of bor g                   421   435   250   788 1,069  1,438          -      -      -        -
Pzr borwI                          -      -      -     -      -   300    650    550 1,050   1,550
increae IincutllaW.i 1ims    77    23   12D   367    2                     Q) AO)   116    2      146
Total S&iree                                                                         4,88 s
hpyutof bornudvo
prbn dl  ad Intee:            57    71    96   263   311   352    448    487   585           769
Louis                      2,166 2,487  2,137 2,783 3,038  3,411  3,798  4,169 4,583   5,047
.eqty1 uest s                 25     -      -    35      -    50       50      75    75       75
Aoflsit uo fixasnsta    274   371   168    56    48   129    178                 13     9       51
bmr   in maurt sonts           (36)   (7)   16    33   (22)   25          5      -      5        -
(2e    In liqd assats         (502)  240  _22)  (0)  572   434   (219)  (476) (                 18
Debt/servIe w e   (tim)l          26    25    18   5.9   8.2   7.4    7.9    7.2   6.0            4.8
v  UudJted.
b/         lAb fm   (ef                 t       pt ae5 pr_6
R p_Imt of bmur4    ,,:  i) ~a
(Reference In texct: page 54, para. 161)



AS 4oE 31 198
DNA of                h=Mt            umt yet           uWtmt             h     ntarm
L                      Dran2dam    to be Draw  1$)   (fttmfJ              TerM I]           l.ac
sorces                1iom hmut                                        (1$)                              C1*)          Gri  Perld   (.)
A                   US$ 1500,00a/           2D Dec. 1978            1,265,374             -           1,077,308        15  ( 6)- yas       3
AD                  SDR  918,OOQ/            6 May   1983             910,254          152,000          910,254       40  (10) years       3
A D                 US$   307,838./         15 N4w. 1983               50,00D          392,000           50,000       15  ( 6) years       3
U> 1K               Ts   550,000./           4 Sept. 1979             550,OOD             -             452,697        15  ( 5) years      3
E9C           EMC    I,0ob/            23 Jan. 1980              133,217             -             133,217        40  (111) years   1-1/2
A hstrall           T$   250,000./          28 July  1980             250,000             -             250,00D        15  ( 7) years      3
t    EIBI           NJ    eJs0,00/           1 Sept. 1981            468,855             -             468,855        12  ( 5) years   2-1/2
EIB 11          HU   700,00(b/          14 Feb.  1984            375,177          212,823          375,177        15  ( 5) years   2-1/2          o
E) ir               1$    250,009/          29 May  1982             250,000             -             2i0,000        10        yes        e2
TMD            S    950,000./           4 N4w. 1985              337,607          682,000          337,606        14  ( 4) years 3s
TUOL                                                         4,590,483        1,438,823        4,255,114
a / Lot to  iarnmmn of Tcp, rDet to M.
tenut directly to T2p Dwelcpunt BL.



119                          Appendix 25
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Analysis of Collection Performance and Sectoral Analysis of Portfolio
FYs 1981-1985
(T$'000)
Collection of Loans
Year ending 31 December        1981       1982       1983      1984      1985
Arrears at the beginning
of the period                   68         189        282       516        559
Current dues during the
period                       2,699       2,768      3,060     3,644      3,861
Total dues for collection       2,767      2,957      3,342     4,160      4,420
Loans rescheduled a/              405        726        734       968        927
Cash collection                2,173       1,949      2,092     2,633      2,970
Arrears at the end of
the period                      189        282        516       559        523
Percentage Comparison
Cash collection/total
dues for collection           78.5        65.9       62.6      63.3       67.2
As TDB's accounting system does not explicitly record the amount
of interest that is rescheduled, these figures are estimates.
The Mission is satisfied with the validity of the estimation
procedure followed.
Sectoral Analysis of Loan Portfolio
Year ending 31 December       1981       1982       1983      1984       1985
Agriculture                    1,050      1,509      1,640     2,403      2,515
Industry and comwerce         1,792       2,311     2,552      3,142      3,719
Government fund a/                29         20         21        21          -
Staff loan                       107        127        144       210        250
Less:  Unearned interest b/   (188)        (260)      (253)     (217)      (162)
Total                     2,790       3,707     4,104      5,559
a/  Loans originally made by the Government and transferred to TDB
after TDB's establishment.
b/  Interest which is debited to loan account but not yet accrued.
This relates to loans with flat interest rates.
(Reference in text: page 56, para 165)



120
Apex 26
M  Dm     BSANK
M#g of Are
FYs 1981 - 1985
(T$'OOQ)
1981           1982          1983          1984          1985
As of 31 DeceuIer          No.  A im t   No.  Amoait  No. Amtmt  No. hiAmt  No. hiAnmt
By Sector
Agriculture                  313     66    410       115   777   260   947   317  1,053   358
Industry and service         40     123      64     167   162   256   201   242   186   165
Total                       353    189                     W 282   939  516 55       T29  ;523
By AlE
3- 6 rmmths                 238      42    322       60   483    114   376   139   324   113
6- 9 manits                  59     107      69      31   239    84   201        96   241    108
9-12 mxmts                    9       3      27      15    71    74   181    92   202    64
Over 12nmoths                 9      19      29     156    89   211   351   220   445   210
Legl Actin                   38      18      27      20    57    33    39    21    27    28
Total                       353      189    474     282   939   516  1          559  1,239   523
By Area
Tcxiwaeapu                   183    151    299    .03   557   386   632   393   674   343
' Fix                        31       3      33       4    40       7    32      7    37       5
Niua                          -       -       -       -      -      -      -      -      4      2
H1'apai                      30       6      32      22    108    39    87    15    84    13
Vava'u                      109      29     110      53   234    84   397   144   440   160
Total                       353     189    474      M      939   3I6  1,148   559  1,239   523
Total Loan Pbrtfolio        2,785   2,790  3,329   3,707 3,302 4,104 3,864  5,559 5,233  6 322
Provision for bad debts               206             271-          2 -           307
Provisimo for bad debts as
Z of total loan portfolio          7.38            7.31          5.92         5.52           6.3
Hardce arrers a/ as
Z of totalportfolio                 1.3             4.7           5.9           4.3          3.8
Arrears rato (%) b/                  6.77            7.61         12.57         10.06          8.3
a/ Hardcore arrea  include overdUe of more than 12 mmths plus cases under legal actim.
b/     Total Arars       x 100
Total loan portfolio
(Reference in text: page 57, para 168)



121
Page 1
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
List of Major Assumptions for Operational and Financial Projections
(FY 1986-1990)
I.   Operational Projections
A.   Approvals
Total loan approvals are assumed to increase at an annual rate
of 15 per cent in 1986 and 10 per cent per annum to 1990. Agriculture
loans are expected to increase at an average annual rate of 6 per cent
to 1990. Business and industry loans are assumed to increase 20 per
cent in 1986 and 15 per cent per annum to 1990.
B.   Disbursements
Based on past experience, the following assumptions are
applied:
a)   For loans, 85 per cent of the total approvals will result in
net approvals, and 53 per cent will be disbursed in the same
year. The balance of the disbursement will be made in the
following year, with the total disbursement representing 82
per cent of the approved amount.
b)   Equity investments are assumed to be disbursed in the year of
approval.
C. Repayments
Repayment of existing loans is assumed to be on the basis of
actual amortization. For new loans, an estimated amortization schedule
is assumed as follows:
For loans          For loans
over T$5,000       up to T$5,000
1st year                       20%                  302
2nd year                       302                  50%
3rd year                       19%                  202
4th year                       10%
5th year                        5%
II. Financial ProJections
A.   Income Statement
(i) Interest Income
(a) Loans: 8.5 per cent interest per annum on average
portfolio.
(Reference in text: page 58, para 171)



122
Appendlx 27
Page 2
(b) Term Deposits: 6.5 per cent Interest per annum on
average balances.
(ii) Other Income
(a) Letter of Credit (L/C) Guarantees: 1 per cent
(b) Premiums on Collected Insurances: 10 per cent
(c) Rental received from three Government Departments
occupying the top floor of the Bank's building.
(iii) Administrative Expenses
(a)  Travel, administration and auditing costs will
increase by 11 per cent per annum as in 1985.
(b)  Personnel costs will increase by 6 per cent per
annum to 1990 as in 1985.
(iv)  Cost of Borrowings
UK, ADB and Australia at 3 per cent per annum, EEC at 1.5
per cent per annum, European Investment Bank at 2.5 per
cent per annum, BOT at 8 per cent per annum, new
borrowing at 3 per cent per annum on average outstanding
balances.
(v) Application of Accumulated Profits
TDB will continue its policy of transferring at least 75
per cent per annum of operating profit to provisions for
doubtful accounts with the objective of increasing the
value of the provision figure to 10 per cent of
outstanding loans and equity investments.
B.   Cash Flow
(i) Increase in Capital
The following equity injections from TDB's shareholders
have been projected:
1986      -    T$142,000
1987      -    T$100,000
1988      -    T$100,000
1989      -    T$350,000
1990      -    T$550,000
(ii) Repayments of Borrowings
As per repayment schedules in the subsidiary loan
agreements. Repayments of new borrowings are assumed to
be on a similar basis as for existing loans.



123                          Appendix 28
TONGA DEVELOn4EWT BANK
Details of Previous Bank Loans
As of 31 December 1985
($)
Loan 376-TON(SP)       Loan 624-TON(SF)
Loan Amount                       $1,500,000              $1,000,000
Date of Approval                  7 December 1978         26 April 1983
Date of Effectiveness             17 January 1979         4 August 1983
Closing date for submission
of subloans                     17 July 1982            4 August 1986
Closing date for disbursement    15 June 1983             4 August 1987
Amount credited                   $1,445,151              $646,669
Amount disbursed                  $1,445,151              $646,669
Number of subproject financed    991                      419
Free limit amount                 $30,000                 $40,000
Subloan above free limit
number                          11                      1
amount                          $696,911                $43,825
(Reference in text: page 60, para 177)



124
Appendix 29
TONGA DEVELOPNENT BANK
Analysis of Subloans Provided Under the Earlier Bank Loans
As of 31 December 1985
($'O00)
Loan 376-TON(SF)          Loan 624-TON(SF)
No.     Amount       %     No.  Amount       X
Secroral Distribution
Manufacturing industry          9      424.8      29.4      6    53.6      8.3
Service industry               44      527.9      36.5    55   258.9    40.0
Agriculture                   938      492.5      34.1   358   334.2    51.7
WT     1,445.2    100.0      TI   646.7   100.0
Geographical Distribution
Tongatapu                     765    1,236.3      85.6   252   603.6    93.3
'Eua                           23       25.1       1.7    17      5.8     0.9
Ha'apai                        40       66.6       4.6    40    18.7       2.9
Vava'u                        163       117.2      8.1   110    18.6       2.9
d91    1,445.2    100.0    19   64h6.7   10.0
Maturity
Up to 1 year                  496       114.4      7.9   164    62.7       9.7
2 years                420       214.9      14.9   141    73.9    11.4
3 years                 56       443.1      30.7   107   447.7    69.2
4 years                  7       108.3       7.5     3    19.4      3.0
5 years                  7       284.7      19.7     3    19.9      3.1
6 years                  3        75.1      5.2      1    23.1      3.6
7 years                  1        30.5      2.1      -       -        -
8 years                  1       174.2      12.0     -       -        -
Size
Up to $2.5                    922      273.1      18.9   342   175.9    27.2
Over $ 2.5 -  5.0              17       70.0       4.8    11    30.9      4.8
Over $ 5.0 - 10.0              27      189.4      13.1    52   252.2    39.0
Over $10.0 - 20.0              13      174.8      12.1    11    96.3    14.9
Over $20.0 - 50.0               8      271.6      18.8     3    91.4    14.1
Over $50.0                      4      466.3      32.3     -        -       -
91    1,445.2    100.0   TI   -646.7   100.0
Status of Subloans
T$5,000 and above
Projects Completed          57       794.9              64   442.8
- satisfactory operation  T7         695.4                   417.9
- problems in operations   10         99.5               4    26.8
Projects Under
Construction                -           -               1      4.1
Projects with Arrears        13       16.9              16    13.8
- less than 6 months         12       16.3               4    11.9
- 6-12 months                 1        0.6               2      1.9
(Reference in text: page 60, para 177)



125
Appendix 30
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Procurement by Country Under Previous Bank Loans
As of 31 December 1985
($'000)
Loan 376-TON(SP) Loan 624-TON(SP)           Total
Country of Origin  Amount       %     Amount      x       Amount       X
Australia           396.4      27.4     47.5      7.3      443.9      21.2
New Zealand         347.6      24.1     83.3     12.9      430.9      20.6
Japan               304.3      21.1    512.7     79.3      817.0      39.1
Fiji                 98.7       6.8      -        -         98.7       4.7
United States        36.2       2.5      -        -         36.2       1.7
United Kingdom       30.3       2.1      0.7      0.1       31.0       1.5
Other               231.7      16.0      2.5      0.4      234.2      11.2
Total           1,445.2    100.0    646.7    100.0    2,091.9    100.0
(Reference in text: page 60, para 177)



126
Appendix 31
Page 1
TOIA  PEVEOP_T  3N
Comlionce wlth Coveanto Under the Erlirlank Len
Covenants                          URforsene to Loan a/
Covenanto                                                  .        Doct         ^ t                  Statt
A.  Obligation of the Exeuting gcp (TO)
1. Except as the Dank may otherwis, agree, TOD shall               P.A. Section 3.01(c)                Complied With
not substantally mnd le Artles of AssocltSton
or Its Policy Stateamt.
2. TDB shall furnioh to the lank all sucb reports                  P.A. Section 3.05(a)                 Complied with
and informtion as the Dank ohall reasonably request
on the lo* and On the eubloans.
3. TO) sball furnich to the lbank quartorly reports                P.A. Section 3.05(b)                 Complid With
on the executlon of the projects sad on the
opetation ad Management of TOD.
4. ?VD shall furnish Its finneal statements certified              P.A. Sectio  3.06                    CoMplied with
by Independent auditors acceptable to the lank
within six monthe after the close of the finaenil
Year.
S. Except as the lank  nd  T) shall otbhws"  agre.                 P.A. Section 3.08                    Complied with
TDv s11  not (1) cell. le&",, transfer or other-
WIse dlp"os of any of teo assets, except In the
ordinry course of Its buoness, or (11) establsh
or acquire any subsdtiay.
6.  DS ohll maintain a debt/equity ratio of                        P.A. Section 3.09                    Compiled with
3:1 and a debt-vervice ratio of not le  tbhn
1.5 time.
7. TDB shall reviev its interost rate structure                    P.A. Schedule                       Complled wlth
and subcit tho result to the Bnk for coments.                  Para 2
8. TDB ohall consult the Bank prior to affecting                   P.A. Schedule                       Complied with
any ebange in the Interest rate.                               Para 2
9. tn the seiact1on of oubprojects. TOD  sholl give                M. L. P.                             Complied with
prioritl s; to  maller enterprieos end enterprises             Pars a
to be set in the Small Industries Centre.
10. TDB shall appoint an economist wlthin six momths                P.A. Schedule                       Complled with
frot the date of loan effectiveness, and appolnt               Pare 6
an accountant as soon as possible.
11. TDO  shall furnish to the  ank Its flnancial                    P.A. Schedule                    .  Complied with
projections vithin the first sly months of each                Para 7
:lscal year.
(Reference in text:   page 62, para  184)



127
Appendix 3L
Page 2
te'ference to Loan s/
Covenant.                                                         Doceuanto                            Status
O Obligations of the Borrover (Goverrment)
.  The 3orrower shall cause TDB to CaTNr Out the                    L.A. Section 4.01                    Complied vith
Project vith due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound adminlstrative, financial,
business and development policies and practices.
2.  The Borrower shall tale all action, including                   L.A. Section 4.02(b)                 complied with
the provision of funds, facilities, ervlces and
other resources. which shall be nece*sary on Its
part to meet the resource requirments of TDB ln
order to enable TDB to perform Its obligation under
the Project Agreement, and shal; not take or permit
any action on Its part which would interfere with
the performance of such obligations.
3.  The Borrower shall furnish or tause to be furnished             L.A. Section 4.01                    Complled with
to the ank all informatlon as the Bank shall reasonably
request on the loan and financial and economic
condition of longa.
4.  The Borrowe  shall cause TDB to review its Interest             L.A. Scbedule 6                      Complied vith
rote strueture and submit the results of such revewv            Pars 2
to the Bank for coGooats.
5.  The Borrower shall cause ?DB to consult the bank prior          L.A. Sheodule 6                      Complied with
to effecting any change it the Interest rates.                  Pare 2
6.  The Borrover shall not permit ?DB to make any                   L.A. Schedule 6                      Complied with
substantial amendment to its Policy Statement                   Pars 3
without prior agreement of the Borrower
and the Bnk.
7. The Bot ower shall, prior to making any appointeant              L.A. Schedule 6                      Complted With
to the position of Managing Director or Deputy                  Par. 4
Managing Director of TDB, consult the Bank regarding
the qualifications, experience and tenure of office
of the person proposed for appointment.
8.  The Borrower shall take all necessary measures                  L.A. Schedule 6                      Complled vith
to ensure that TDB continues to be staffed by suitably-         Pars S
qualified professionals with adequate experience and
technica: expertise.
a/   P.A. - Project Agreerent; L.A. - Loan Agreement; M.L.N. -  inutes of Loan Neoptiations.



