Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4557-TON
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 1.6 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF TONGA
FOR THE
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
May 13, 1987
ThIs document has a resticted distribution and may be uwd by recipients only in the performance of
their offitial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURPRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Tonga Pa'anga (T$)
(as of August 1986)
US$1.0 - T$ 1.64
FISCAL YEAR
Kingdom of Tonga        - July 1 - June 30
Tonga Development Bank - January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL OBBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB  - Asian Development Bank
BOT  - Bank of Tonga
EEC  - European Economic Community
EIB  - European Investment Bank
IDA  - International Development Association
IFAD - International Fund for Agricultural Development
TDB  - Tonga Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF TONGA
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT AND POECT SOUM
Borr ,wer:                      Kingdom of Tonga
Beneficiarv:                    Tonga Development Bank (TDB)
Amount:                         SDR 1.6 million (US$2.0 million equivalent),
cofinanced with ADB loan of US$1.0 million
equivalent and ADB technical assistance grant
of US$0.2 million equivalent
Terms:                          Standard
Onlending Terms:                The credit would be onlent to TDB for 15
years, including grace period of six years at
an interest rate of 3% p.a. In the event that
Tonga's interest rate policy is amended to
allow higher lending rates to be charged by
TDB, the onlending rate will be reviewed and
revised in consultation with IDA.
Financing Plan:                 IDA Credit           US$2.0 million
ADB Loan/Grant       US$1.2 million
TDB                  US$0.7 million
Subborrowers        US$0.9 million
Total Financing   USS4.8 million
Economic Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Staff ADpraisal Report:         ADB Staff Appraisal Report No. TON:Ap-7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by re.t,  he performAnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witti. -_ .nk authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF TONGA
FOR THE TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.       The following report on a proposed development credit to the Kingdom
of Tonga for SDR 1.6 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) is submitted for
approval. The proposed credit would be made on standard IDA terms and would
help finance the productive investments of primarily agricultural, industrial
and tourism enterpris3s and would provide technical assistance designed to
help reform the Government's interest rate policy and strengthen the Tonga
Development Bank's (TDB) institutional capabilities and improve the
efficiency of its operations. This would be the Bank Group's first lending
operation in Tonga.
2.       Background.  The financial sector in Tonga essentially comprises TDB
and the Bank of Tonga (BOT), a commercial bank established in 1974. The
Government recognizes the need and plans to shortly establish a central
banking authority to issue currency, supervise the banking system, manage
foreign reserves, advise the Government on banking and monetary matters and
promote domestic and external monetary stability. BOT is 40% owned by the
Government with the remaining shares held equally by three foreign banks.
Its main functions are to meet the country's demand for commercial banking
services, provide the services of a trading and savings bank and hold the
country's foreign exchange reserves. TDB was established in September 1977,
with Asian Developmert Bank (ADB) assistance, to provide capital in support
of national economic development. TDB is 90% owned by the Government; its
remaining shares are held by BOT. While TDB is allowed by charter to provide
a variety of assistance (loans, equity, guarantees, technical/managerial/
financial consultancy services, and assistance in project formulation and
implementation), for the most part, it functions as an important source of
medium-term loan finance for agriculture, industry, agro-business and tourism
enterprises. In addition to its equity capital, TDB's funds have been
provided by foreign grants and loans from official sources (ADB, EEC, EIB,
IFAD and the Governments of Australia and the United Kingdom). TDB has so
far not mobilized domestic resources.
3.       Tonga joined the World Bank Group in September 1985, after which a
Country Economic Memorandum was prepared and discussed with the Government.
In response to an emerging resource gap in TDB, IDA was formally requested by
the Government in December 1986, to cofinance ADB's latest loan to TDB which
was processed simultaneously with an ADB multiproject loan; these loans had
become effective in October 1986. Consistent with existing cofinanced
operations in the Pacific Islands, ADB has agreed to administer the proposed
IDA credit in parallel with its loan.
4.       Over the five year period 1982-86, TDB's loans to the agriculture
sector have accounted for 58% of loan approvals, leaving 42% of approvals for
industry and business loans; direct manufacturing has accounted for 10% of
approvals. Over the same period, TDB's lending operations grew at an average
annual rate of about 14% p.a., the only exception being 1983 during which
operations declined due to the economic disruption caused by cyclone damage.



- 2 -
Revised five-year operational projections (1987-91) provided by TDB to a
recent IDA updatiag mission indicate that total lending is projected to
increase by 25% in 1987 and by 14% p.a. thereafter; the projected annual
increase for loans to industry and business for 1987 is based largely upon
expressed demand from existing borrowers for expansion or upgrading of their
businesses. Based on past lending experionce and a substantial project
pipeline of about US$4.0 million, TDB's operational projections appear
attainable, Taking into account TDB'. revised operational projections, its
expected financial performance over 1987-91 is in keeping with trends
discussed in ADB's appraisal report.
5.       While TDB has continued to record profits in 1986, this is not
attributable to its lending operations which have been adversely affected by
the Government's interest rate policy as well as its own lending decisions
and poor portfolio management. Interest rates in the country are currently
controlled by law which sets a maximum lending rate level of 10%. Tonga's
highly variable inflation rate (0.7% in 1984, 18.8% in 1985 and an estimated
18% for 1986), has generally meant that deposit and lending rates have been
negative in real terms. This issue was discussed with the Government during
review of the Country Economic Memorandum and will continue to be pursued
under the proposed project (para. lOa below). The Government intends to
introduce measures to facilitate a more flexible interest rate structure
which would be conducive to achieving positive real interest rates and lead
to enhanced domestic resource mobilization.
6.       As a result of the 10% interest ceiling, high administrative costs
associated with its large number of small loans and low collection rate, TDB
earned a large negative spread (-18%) on about 20% of its portfolio which
resulted in a negative 2% spread on its overall lending operations. Due to
investment income, however, TDB was able to show an overall profit. The
adoption by the Government of a more flexible, market-oriented interest rate
policy would help to alleviate this problem by enabling TDB to restructure
its own interest rate charges to more realistic and profitable levels which
would at least reflect its financial, overhead and default costs (para. lOb
below). TDB would also need to review its portfolio with arrears of twelve
months or more, and decide which loans need to be foreclosed or written off
and which could be restructured (para. lOc below). The financing of
relatively larger projects (para. 8 below) and an institutional strengthening
program, both of which are supported by the proposed project, are also
expected to improve TDB's operational efficiency and profitability.
7.       Proiect Objectives.  The proposed project is designed to help
provide TDB with adequate long-term resources to meet investment demand,
particularly in the agriculture, industry and tourism sectors. Institution-
building assistance would also be provided to TDB through various forms of
technical assistance designed to improve TDB's profitability and operational
efficiency. A key element of this technical assistance focusses on the need
to reform the Government's interest rate policy with a view to achieving
positive, real deposit and lending rates. The objectives of other
institution building assistance include identifying TDB's prospects for
diversified operations, developing personnel management policies and
improving TDB's accounting system through computerization.



8.       Project Description.  The proposed project would provide resources
to TDB to help meet its projected level of lending operations over the three
year commitment period, October 1986-October 1989. Technical assistance
would also be made available to TDB. The resources transferred as a line of
credit to TDB consist of: ADB's loan of US$1.0 million, which is intended to
cover part of TDB's resource requirements of US$1.3 million over 1986-87; and
US$1.8 million of the IDA credit, which will provide for TDB's resource
requirements in 1988-89. The IDA credit is also intended to encourage
expansion of TDB's financing of relatively larger subprojects in its
pipeline.  While the ADB loan is restricted to financing the direct foreign
exchange component of subprojects, in line with our operations in other small
Pacific Island countries, local costs would be eligible for IDA financing.
IDA would finance 100% of foreign expenditures of subloans and 80% of the
local expenditures of subloans. The Government would onlend the proceeds of
the credit to TDB at 3% p.a.; TDB's projected average relending rate is 8.5%.
In case TDB's relending rates are revised, the need to adjust the onlending
rate from the Government to TDB would be discussed and agreed with IDA, with
a view to allowing TDB to earn an interest spread whlich covers its associated
costs. With regard to technical assistance, ADB has provided grant funding
of: a) US$35,000 for a review of the Government's interest rate policies; b)
US$125,000 to cover the foreign exchange portion of the consultant costs for
computerization of TDB's accounting system; and c) US$ 35,000 for a
consultant review of TDB's personnel management policies. IDA would provide
up to US$140,000 for the hardware and software necessary to complete TDB's
computerization program and up to US$60,000 for a consultant review of TDB's
prospects for diversification, focussing on the feasibility of diversifying
TDB's domestic resource base and corresponding financing operations. The
consultant would also be expected to design an implementation program,
including staff training, for any agreed new activities. The total project
cost is US$4.8 million equivalent. A breakdown of costs and the financing
plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of
disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A
timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
Operations in Tonga are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map of
Tonga is attached. ADB's Staff Appraisal Report No. TON: Ap-7, dated May
1986, is be6ng distributed separately.  As this report covers both ADB's
Multiproject and the TDB project, reference should be directed to Part B of
the Staff Appraisal Report titled "The Line of Credit to Tonga Development
Bank."
9.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The project conforms with IDA's
country lending strategy of supporting the development of key sectors
(agriculture, industry, and tourism) in the economy. It is also fully
consistent with the strategy of achieving cost-effective lending operations
in the small Pacific Isla ds countries through cofinanced operations with
ADB. The proposed line of credit will enable TDB to meet its normal lending
demand while also encouraging selective and limited expansion of its lending
operations to relatively larger subprojects which would not otherwise be
eligible for finance from TDB due to its limited available resources. The
selective financing of larger subloans together with technical assistance
focussed on institution-building and diversification efforts within TDB
should help to improve its efficiency and strengthen its profitability.
Also, the important issue of interest rate reform will be pursued under the



project. Recognizing that this is the Bank Group's first lending operation
in Tonga, the resource transfer, institution-building and interest rate
reform objectives of the project constitute a strong rationale for IDA
support.
10.      Aireed Actions.  In addition to agreements reached already with ADB
and which are reflected in the draft IDA Development Credit and Project
Agreements, during negetiations agreement with the Government on the
following issues was confirmed: a) The Government would need to submit a
plan of action, satisfactory to IDA, for introducing, under a timetable
agreed with IDA, a flexible interest rate structure which is market oriented
and conducive to realizing positive, real deposit and lending rates over the
medium to long-term. Unless this agi.:ed timetable is formulated once
US$900,000 of the US$1.8 million line of credit to TDB is committed, or by
June 30, 1988, whichever occur first, no further commitments under the IDA
credit would be permitted; b) TDB would revise its own interest rate
structure, in accordance with a timetable to be agreed with IDA (expected to
be within three months of the effectiveness of the new national interest rate
policy), with a view to charging a rate of interest which recovers its
financial, overhead and default costs; c) TDB would complete by December 31,
1987, a review of its portfolio having arrears of twelve months or more. The
review would identify those projects which are essentially financially viable
and suitable for restructuring and those which need to be foreclosed or
written-off, and would include a time-bound, project-specific plan for
achieving the appropriate action; d) A consultant's review of TDB's
diversification options, based on terms of reference which would be agreed
with IDA, would be completed by June 30, 1988. Based on the recommendations
of the review, an action program to implement diversified operations would be
discussed and agreed with IDA by December 31, 1988; e) The Government will
bear the foreign exchange risk on the IDA credit; and f) The signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between the Government and
TDB would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
11.      Justification.  TDB is the country's most important source of long-
term development finance. Although IDA cofinancing is being arranged
subsequent to ADB's appraisal and loan to TDB of 1986, it is important that
TDB's projected resource gap for 1988-89 be funded in order to avoid
disruption of available finance. While the economic benefits of the project
are difficult to quantify ex ane, analysis of subloans over T$10,000 (about
US$6,000) financed by TDB under an earlier ADB project showed that the
subloans, which totalled T$6.7 million (about US$4.1 million) in aggregate,
were expected to generate incremental sales, value added and employment of
about T$23.9 million (US$14.6 million), T$7.9 million (US$4.8 million), and
800 persons, respectively.
12.      Risks.  The major risk associated with the project is that
implementation of interest rate reform may be delayed or may not be as broad
as is necessary to .ddress current distortions in the financial sector. This
risk is mitigated by the intention of the Government to adopt a flexible,
market-oriented interest rate structure and the disbursement condition (para.
lOa above) which requires the Government to reach agreement with IDA on an
action program, including a timetable, for the introduction of interest rate
reforms. Another risk of the project is that the proposed TDB interest rate



revision and portfolio improvement through loan restructurings, foreclosures
and write-offs necessary to improve TDB's profitability would not be
implemented.  Given the commitment of the Government and TDB's management tc
TDB's institutional strengthening, the risk should not be considered
significant.
13.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied the proposed credit would comply'-
with the Articles of A6reement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Attachments
Washington, D. C.                                           Barber B. Conable
May 13, 1987                                                  President



Schedule 4
TONGA
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Estimated Cost and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign       Total
Estimated Cost:
Total costs of subprojects               1.6           2.8        4.4
Technical assistance                     0.0           0.4        0.4
Total Prolect Costs                  1.6           3.2        4.8
Financing Plan:
TDB                                      0.7           ---        0.7
Subborrowers                             0.9           ---        0.9
ADB                                      ---           1.2        1.2
IDA                                      ---           2.0        2.0
Total 96                                           3.2        4.8



ScheduleB
TONG
TONGA DEVELQPMENT BANK PROJECT
PrcUrement Method and pisbursaMents
fUJSS million) 
Proc,rement Method
Total
Prglect Element                   IC      LCB     Othe                  cst
Credit                                     --       1.8        --        1.8
Technical Assistance                                                     0.2 - -  02
Disbursements
Cagetory
Credit                             80% of local expenditures and
100% of foreign expenditures
Technical Assistance              100% of total expenditures
Estimated IDA Disbursements
LDA Fiscal Year
FY88      FY89       FY90
Annual                     0.5       0.7        0.7         0.1
Cumulative                 0.5       1.2        1.9         2.0



Schedule C
TONGA
TONGA DE'ELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Timetable for Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare                  6 months
Prepared by                            Government and TDB with ADB assistance
First IDA mission                      Jandary 1987
Appraisal mission departure            (Appraised by ADB January 13-29, 1986)
Negotiations                           April 1987
Planning date of effectiveness         September 1987
List of relevant PCRs and PPARs        n.a.



STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STaTEMET OF BAM  LOAS AND IDA CRED1TS
(as of Mlarch 31, 1987)
The proposed project will be the first Bank Group operation in Tonga.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
There have been no IFC investments in Tonga.



TONGA
Main Roads
*   Capital
B                      175°10'                             j750                         Fon17u°                                  l
Tdcu
~~~   9~~~~~~~'    < <                                               VV*a, , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~see h eeA
-21°lo'   Houwila<Pk  .vw¢Yf21°lo-    VAVA'U
GROUP
TONGATAPIJ
TONGATAPU                           'Euo
GROUP              -                 a        't .
o      5      10 omil



O         S          10  Miles
0           10            20  Kilometrs
175°10'
A                            174°
Kao                                       Ho'ono
'Uta VaVa 'u         oo Ho'alufli                                       fofuao   HA'APAI
0    o  aluirf                                                                      -9i,Lfk
UoNeeow  GROUP
Neiaof
0          Koloa                                                                         Uiho
-18040r   Hunga  tutOfukuo                 Foio   18°40'--
Nuapopu                    UnTnao            20°                                                                                                                      200
Nomuko
rlos 00 has boo, $rpw b
Fonufo'ou                                                                                      e, _     w       e
cp%4010    dit~ ft.0
VAVA'U GROUP                                                                                   NOMUKA                                                             , ,
GROUP                                                         000010 f bm bftuwg -t
-~ MsO 0W do 110 ,,VW 01010
0         5         10 Miles                                     Hunga orong                                                                                   &,       o,s,  m*
I,, Y  -4~  ~ Ombw  ff
|   i   ,                            H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ung a l*opcIi                                                                    4r c--r mwv~o
0           10           2U  Kilometers                 _        ufl9                                                                         174°a
____________________  _____                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1740
176-
-15'                  ~~~VANUATU          W. SAMOA   A. Somo10e,  IS'-
[]ONGA
21°                                                                                                  21t.             New Caledonia, Fr.
see inset 8                                                 r
Pego                                                                                   tmr-<s = Kermodec k Is., N.Z.  30°
0                    25                   S0 Miles              Tongatopu                                  <               L          I.,
Aust.
40                   80  KilonWeters       TONGATAPU  '0on.                                                                                                         S
p                                                                       GROUP                    'Eua                                                         A ZEALAND
1760                                                    17r5 Kaa.             150°                   1650                   180°                    1650



