CREDIT NUM-ER 1813 TON
Project Agreement
(Tonga Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                             , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1813 TON
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                5        , 1987, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and THE
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK (TDB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Kingdom of Tonga (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million six
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,600,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that TDB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement; and
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TDB, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to TDB on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS TDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of TDB
Section 2.01. (a) TDB declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance


﻿-2-
with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with the Act and the
Policy Statement.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association otherwise agrees,
TDB shall perform all obligations set forth in Schedule 6 to the
ADB Loan Agreement to the extent that they are applicable to
TDB. In such Schedule references to the "Bank" shall be read for
the purpose of this Agreement to be references to the Association
and references to "Part B of the Project" shall be read to be
references to Part A of the Project in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) TDB undertakes that, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and
in this Agreement.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association otherwise agrees,
TDB shall perform all obligations set forth in the Schedule to
the ADB Project Agreement not yet performed by the date of this
Agreement. Ia such Schedule references to the "Bank" shall be
read for the purpose of this Agreement to be references to the
Association and "sub-loans" shall be read to be "Sub-loans".
(c) TLB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Qualified Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of TDB; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. TDB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. TDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, TDB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) TDB shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) TDB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by TDB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, TDB
shall furnish to the Association quarterly reports on the
execution of the Project and on the operation and management of
TDB. Such reports shall be submitted within three months after
the end of each quarter and shall be in such form and detail as
the Association shall reasonably request and shall indicate,
among other things, progress made and problems encountered during
the quarter under review, steps taken or proposed to be taken to
remedy these problems, and proposed program of activities and
expected progress during the following quarter. Such reports
shall i:clude details of TDB's operations, financial position,
resource position, arrears and collection performance and
institutional de.elopments for the quarter under review.
Section 2.07. (a) Whenever TDB proposes to make a Sub-loan
in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $40,000 or such other
sum as shall from time to time be determined by the Association,
TDB shall, before requesting a withdrawal, submit to the
Association an application for approval of such Sub-loan. Such
application shall be in a form satisfactory to the Association
and shall contain a description and appraisal of the Qualified
Project, the terms and conditions of the proposed Sub-loan and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. A Sub-loan shall be deemed to exceed the equivalent of
the amount specified in or agreed pursuant to this paragraph if
the amount of such Sub-loan, when added to the amount of any
other Sub-loan or Sub-loans previously made or authorized for the


﻿-4-
same Qualified Project, including sub-loans financed by the ADB
pursuant to the ADB Loan Agreement, exceeds the equivalent of the
amount so specified or agreed.
(b) Whenever TDB has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan in
an amount not exceeding the equivalent of the amount specified in
or agreed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, TDB shall,
promptly and before requesting a withdrawal, furnish to the
Association a brief statement, in a form satisfactory to the
Association, describing the Qualified Project and the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan. No withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a Sub-loan falling within the provisions of this
paragraph   unless   the  Association   shall  have   authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(c) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
applications and information required by paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this Section shall be submitted to the Association not later
than December 31, 1989.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association and TDB may
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made from the Credit
Account for amounts expended for the cost of a Qualified Project
more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to receipt by
the Association either of the application for approval of such
Qualified Project pursuant to Section 2.07 (a) of this Agreement,
or of the information required by Sect4on 2.07 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) Each Sub-loan shall carry interest at an
appropriate rate and shall be made on terms whereby TDB shall
obtain, by a written agreement with the Qualified Enterprise in
form acceptable to the Association, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Borrower, TDB and the Association.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan (i) shall not
extend beyond fifteen (15) years, including a grace period not
exceeding three (3) years, from the date when such Sub-loan is
approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Credit Account
pursuant to Section 2.07 (a) and (b) of this Agreement; and (ii)
shall provide for appropriately structured monthly aggregate
payments of principal plus interest.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.10. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement, and in
addition to any other provisions which a prudent lender would
request, each Sub-loan agreement shall include provisions to the
effect that:
(i) the Qualified Enterprise shall carry out and operate
the Qualified Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and  business   practices,  including  maintenance  of
adequate accounts and records;
(ii) the proceeds of the Credit shall be used only for
procurement in eligible countries as specified by the
Association, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association, of goods produced in, and services
supplied from, such countries;
(iii) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of such Qualified Project;
(iv) the Association and TDB shall each have the right to
inspect  such  goods  and  the  plant, sites, works,
properties and equipment included in such Qualified
Project, the operation thereof and of the Qualified
Enterprise and any relevant records and documents;
(v) the Qualified Enterprise shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
business practice, and without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable to replace or repair such goods;
(vi) the Association and TDB shall each be entitled to
obtain all such information as each shall reasonably
request relating to the Sub-loan, the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Qualified Project, the Qualified Enterprise and
other related matters; and


﻿-6-
(vii) TDB shall be entitled to suspend or terminate further
access by such Qualified EnterpriLe to the use of the
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Qualified
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
agreement with TDB.
Section 2.11. TDB shall promptly and effectively exercise
its rights in relation to each Qualified Project in accordance
with the standards of a prudent lender and in such manner as to
protect the interest of the Borrower, TDB and the Association.
Section 2.12. TDB shall not make a Sub-loan to any Qualified
Enterprise unless such Qualified Enterprise has at its disposal,
or has made appropriate arrangements to obtain as and when
required, all local currency funds, including adequate working
capital and other resources which are required by such Qualified
Enterprise for the carrying out of its Qualified Project in
respect of which the Sub-loan is to be madr.
Section 2.13. For the purposes of Sections 2.01 (b) and 2.02
(b) hereof the provisions of Schedule 6 to the ADB Loan Agreement
and the Schedule to the ADB Project Agreement, respectively,
shall continue to remain in force and effect as if said
provisions of such Schedules were fully set       forth  in such
Sections,  notwithstanding  the   termination  of  the  ADB Loan
Agreement, the ADB Project Agreement or       the  Administration
Letter.
Section 2.14. The Association may, by notice to TDB, dele-
gate to the ADB under an administration letter, for the duration
of such period as may be set forth in the Administration Letter,
any of all of its functions and responsibilities under Articles
II and III of this Agreement and TDB shall comply with the pro-
visions of the said Articles as if the ADB is substituted for the
Association therein. The obligation of TDB to comply with said
Articles II and III shall continue in force and effect not-
withstanding any termination or suspension of such delegated
functions and responsibilities to the ADB under the Administra-
tion Letter.
Article III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) TDB shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of


﻿- 7 -
each Qualified Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained   sound  accounting   practices  the   operations  and
financial condition of TDB.
(b) TDB shall:
(i) have its records, accounts (including the Special
Account) and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. TDB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Pa'anga) used in its opera-
tions.
Section   3.03.   TDB   shall   enable   the   Association's
representatives   to  inspect   any  Qualified   Enterprise,  any
Qualified Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and any relevant records and documents maintained by TDB
or by the Qualified Enterprise.
Section 3.04. (a) TDB shall, promptly as required, take all
action within its powers to maintain its corporate existence, to
carry on its operations, and to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, properties, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of
its business.


﻿- 8 -
(b) TDB shall at all times conduct its business in
accordance  with   sound   administrative,  financial,   banking,
business and development policies and practic-es and under the
supervision   of  competent   and  experienced   management   and
personnel.
(c) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, TDB
shall not (i) sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its assets, except in the ordinary course of its business, or
(ii) establish or acquire any Subsidiary.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
TDB shall (i) maintain a ratio of the consolidated debt of TDB
and all its Subsidiaries to the consolidated equity of TDB and
all its Subsidiaries not higher than 3:1; and (ii) maintain a
debt service ratio of not less than 1.5 times.
For the purposes of the foregoing provisions:
(a) "Debt"   refers  to   any  debt  incurred, assumed    or
guaranteed by TDB or a Subsidiary which matures more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred (but
excluding that portion of any such debt payable within one year
from the date of any debt-equity ratio calculation), provided
that debt shall be counted only to the extent it is drawn down
and outstanding. The incurring of debt includes any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt.
(b)  "Consolidated debt of TDB and all its Subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of TDB and of all its
Subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by TDB to any Subsidiary or
by any Subsidiary to TDB or to any other Subsidiary.
(c)  "Consolidated equity of TDB and all its Subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of the total unimpaired paid-in capital,
surplus and free reserves of TDB and all its Subsidiaries after
excluding such items of capital, surplus and reserves as shall
represent equity interests of TDB in any such Subsidiary or of
any such Subsidiary in TDB or any other such Subsidiary.
(d) "Debt-service ratio" means the ratio of the annual net
income of TDB after tax but before interest and depreciation plus
principal collections under its loan portfolio, to the aggregate
amount of annual amortization (including sinking fund payment)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.06. TDB shall zause each of its Subsidiaries to
observe and perform the obligations of TDB under this Project
Agreement to the extent to which such obligations may be
applicable thereto, as though s,ich obligations were binding upon
each of such Subsidiaries.
Section 3.07. TDB shall, by December 31, 1987, have carried
out a detailed review of its loan portfolio in arrears of twelve
months or more and shall discuss the review with the Associa-
tion. Based on such discussion, TDB shall prepare an action plan
to reduce such arrears, including restructurings, foreclosures or
write-offs as necessary, and shall carry out such plan in
accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. TDB shall cause the diversification study
referred to in Part B of the Project to be carried out by June
30, 1988, and thereafter shall by December 31, 1988, prepare ai
action program, satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out
the results of such study.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of TDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify TDB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TDB:
Tonga Development Bank
P.O. Box 126
Nuku'alofa
Kingdom of Tonga
Cable address                      Telex:
DEVBANK                         66206 TS
NUKU'ALOFA
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TDB or by TDB on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its Managing Director, or by such other person or


﻿- 11 -
persons as the Managing Director ,or the Board of Directors of
TDB shall designate in writing, and TDB shall furnish to the
Association   sufficient  evidence o    the   authority  and   the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 15                 ptk*%J
Regional Vice President
Asia
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
ByJAtr                        e  ereetaie
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


