CREDIT NUMBER 1813 TON
Development Credit Agreement
(Tonga Development Bank Project)
between
KINGDOM OF TONGA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 \, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1813 TON
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1987, between
KINGDOM OF TONGA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the   Project   will  be   carried  out  by   the  Tonga
Development Bank (TDB) with the Borrower's assistance, and as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
TDB the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
(C) the Borrower has obtained from the Asian Development
Bank (the ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special
Funds resources in various currencies equivalent to two million
six hundred thirty-six thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
2,636,000) to assist in financing the Project and a Multi-Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement dated
July 10, 1986 (the ADB Loan Agreement) entered into between the
Borrower and the ADB;
(D)  the Borrower has also obtained from the ADB technical
assistance grants (the ADB Grants) up to the equivalent of one
hundred ninety-five thousand dollars ($195,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
agreements dated July 10, 1986 entered into among the Borrower,
the TDB and the ADB, and between the Borrower and the ADB (the
ADB Technical Assistance Agreements);
(E) the ADB has entered into an agreement with the TDB for
the purposes of carrying out the Project        (the ADB Project
Agreement);
(F) the ADB and the Association intend to enter into an
agreement, a copy of which agreement will be furnished to the
Borrower (the Administration Letter), making arrangements for the
ADB to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the
financing to be provided severally by the ADB and the-Association
and regulating certain other matters of common interest in
connection with such financing; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the bas.s, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the TDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Act" means the Tonga Development Bank Act 1977 (No. 3
of 1977) of the Borrower, as amended to the date hereof;
(b) "Pa'anga" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c) "Policy Statement" means the Statement of Operating
Policies approved by the Board of Directors of TDB on May 26,
1978, as amended from time to time;
(d) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and TDB, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e) "Qualified Enterprise" means an enterprise to which TDB
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(f) "Qualified   Project"  means   a  specific  development
project to be carried out by a Qualified Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;


﻿-3-
(g) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
TDB out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Qualified Enterprise
for a Qualified Project;
(h) "Subsidiary" means a company which is deemed to be a
subsidiary of TDB under the laws of the Borrower;
(i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TDB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(j) "TDB" means the Tonga Development Bank, a statutcry
corporation of the Borrower, established under the provisions of
the Act.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.  The  Association   agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one milliort six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by TDB on account of
withdrawals made by a Qualified Enterprise under a Sub-Loan to
meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Qualified Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Credit Account is requested.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in the Bank of Tonga on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions specified by the Association.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower and TDB of such later
date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semi-annually on April 15 and Ocrober 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April
15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 1997, and ending April
15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on April 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. TDB is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause TDB to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
TDB therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TDB to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would nrevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
TDB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and TDB under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including a provision that the Borrower shall
bear the foreign exchange risk.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, res-
pectively) shall be carried out by TDB pursuant to Section 2.04
of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, delegate to the ADB under an administration letter, for
the duration of such period as may be set forth in the Adminis-
tration Letter, any or all of its functions and responsibilities
under Articles II, III and TV of this Agreement and the Borrower
shall comply with the provisions of the said Articles as if the


﻿-6-
ADB is substituted for the Association therein. The obligatioa of
the Borrower to comply with said Articles II, III and IV shall
continue in force and effect notwithstanding any termination or
suspension of such delegated functions and responsibilities to
the ADB under the Administration Letter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure   that   all  records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred      to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing   principles  consistently  applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as   the   Association   shall   have   reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors   as   to  whether   the  statements   of


﻿-7-
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to t.ne
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) TDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower or TDB shall have failed to perform any of
its or their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
TDB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
oDerations or financial condition of TDB or its ability to carry
ou* the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of TDB or for the suspension of its operations.
(f) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the ADB Loan or the ADB Grants shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part pursuant to the terms
of the ADB Loan Agreement or the ADB Technical Assistance
Agreements.


﻿-8-
(g) The ADB Loan shall have become due and payable prior to
the agreed maturity thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and TDB; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d), (e), (f) or (g)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been entered into by the Borrower and TDB, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following -re specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by TDB, and is legally binding upon TDB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and TDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Vuna Road
Nuku'alofa
Kingdom of Tonga
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFIN                             66277 MINFIN TS
TONGA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF TONGA
By/51                                CAr-  cec:k-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B y/                        R+4=;~ K a  ~       5  t
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals and Procurement
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Part A of the           1,440,000           100% of foreign
Project                                    expenditures and
80% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Technical                 160,000           100%
assistance,
including
consultants
services,
equipment and
materials
Total                  1,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paiagraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into
to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of expen-
ditures to be financed out of Category (1):


﻿- 12 -
(a) in respect of a Sub-loan or Investment unless the
Sub-loan or Investment has been made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.02 to the Project Agreement; or
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made from Category (1) for Sub-loans entered
into after (a) applications and the information required by
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement
for Sub-loans shall have reached the equivalent of $900,000 or
(b) June 30, 1988, whichever occurs first, unless the Borrower
and the Association shall have reached an agreement on an action
program,   including  an   implementation   schedule  (and   its
applicability to TDB) for achieving a market-oriented, flexible
interest rate structure on domestic deposits and loans.
5.   In support of applications for withdrawals, TDB shall supply
a copy of the contract and the local supplier's or contractor's
invoice, indicating the origin of the imported goods and evidence
that payment has been made to the local supplier or contractor.
Procurement
6.   TDB shall require Qualified Enterprises to demonstrate that
the procurement procedures adopted by them are appropriate in
the circumstances. TDB shall also ensure and certify to the
Association that the goods and services shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of
the goods, their suitability for the Qualified Project and the
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts, and, in
the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the
parties rendering them.
7.   Suppliers and contractors in countries in respect of which
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made pursuant to
Section 5.01 of the General Conditions shall be eligible to
compete in providing goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
8.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the study in
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms


﻿- 13 -
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.    Goods for Part B of the
Project  shall   be   procured  in  accordance   with  procedures
acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in financing such
productive facilities and resources in Tonga as will contribute
to the economic and social development of the country. Subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives, the
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The financing by TDB of specific development projects in
Tonga by making loans to enterprises in Tonga, all in accordance
with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Act and the
Policy Statement.
Part B:
Provision of technical assistance, including hardware and
software for TDB's computerization program and a study of TDB's
prospects for diversification of operations, including scope for
domestic resource mobilization.
T     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(2) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"15. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (d) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(3) The words "the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph (c) of
Section 2.07 to the Project Agreement, the Association
shall, in respect of any portion of the Credit: (i) have
received no applications or requests permitted under
sub-paragraph (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have
denied any such applications or requests, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to
submit such applications or approvals or to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to
such amount or portion of the Credit.    Upon the giving of
such notice, such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


