E-274
VOL. 3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
INTRODUCTION
A.  Background                           1
B.  The Need and Purpose of the
Guidelines                          1
C.  Scope                                1
II.  The Philippine EIS System                2
A.  History and Legal Basis              2
B.  EIS as a Planning and Management Tool 3
C.  EIS as a Regulatory Tool             3
D.  Coverage and Exemptions              3
III. EIS Framework for MRDP Projects          5
A.  General Objectives                   5
B.   Specific Objectives                 5
C.  Policies                             5
IV. The EIS System Procedure
A.  Project Screening                    6
B.  Securing ECC for non-Exempted
Projects                            7
C.  Preparation of the Environmental
Management Plan                     8
V.  MRDP Environmental Group                  9
Figures:
Figure 1  EIS Process                    10
Figure 2   Proposed Organizational
Set-up for MRDP EIS System    11
Appendices






ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES
I.   INTRODUCTION
A.   Background
1.    The Local Government Code of 1991 devolved some functions of the national
government to the local government. These functions cut across such sectors
as agriculture and fisheries, infrastructure, environment, social services and
health. MRDP will aid local government in pursuing their new mandate.
With the limited resources of local government, the program aims to help
LGU's utilize their limited resources to create lasting impacts making
sustainable projects more imperative. Sustainable projects imply social
acceptability  and  environmental  soundness.  MRDP   incorporated
environmental components in all its projects towards achieving this goal.
B.   The Need and Purpose of the Guidelines
1.    Although environment is one of the sectors devolved from the national
government, most LGU's at present do not have trained personnel in
environmental impact assessment of projects.
2.    This Environmental Guidelines serves as a common frame of reference to all
LGU personnel who will be involved in the implementation of the EIA
system to the projects under MRDP.
3.   It describes in detail the whole process of the EIS system to give the
implementers a better understanding of what is to be done and the resources
required achieving it.
4.    This will standardize the treatment given each particular kind of project in
all areas making sure that all relevant issues are taken into consideration and
not left out because of pre-conceived notions of the assessors.
C.   Scope
1.    The guidelines consists of a definition of the coverage of the EIS system, the
procedure in getting projects classified, a description of the step by step
procedure in the preparation of an Initial Environmental Examination or an
Environmental Impact Assessment of a project, the process of getting the
Environmental Clearance Certificate, and the preparation of the
Environmental Management Plan and Environmental Monitoring Plan.
Environmental Guidelines                                       Page I of 11



2.    It also describes in detail the process of evaluation of the IEE and the EIS bv
DENR.
II.   The Philippine Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) System
A.   History and Legal Basis
1.    Presidential Decree (PD) No. 1586 established the Philippine Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) System that was first implemented in 1979.
Throughout the years, it has undergone several refinements and revisions to
make it more effective.
2.    In 1992 DENR Administrative Order No. 21 (DAO 21) amending the Revised
Rules and Regulations Implementing PD 1586 was issued to strengthen and
streamline the implementation of the EIS System. Again in 1996, DAO 96-37
amended DAO 21 of 1992 to further streamline and strengthen the
implementation process.
3.    The Philippine EIS System implementation is governed by the following
basic DENR policy:
"To attain and maintain a rational and orderly balance between socio-
economic growth and environmental protection through the sustainable use,
development, management, renewal and conservation of the country's
natural resources, including the protection and enhancement of the quality of
the environment, not only for the present but for the future generations as
well"
4.    In consonance with this basic policy, the revised Administrative Order (DAO
96-37) was promulgated to address the following objectives:
a.    Ensure that environmental considerations are incorporated at the
earliest possible stage of project development.
b.    Enhance maximum public participation in the EIA process to validate
the social acceptability of the project or undertaking so as to ensure
the fullest consideration of the environmental impact of such project
or undertaking.
c.    Further streamline the current procedures in the conduct of the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in order to improve its
effectiveness as a planning and management; and regulatory tools.
Environmental Guidelines                                       Page 2 of 11



B.   EIS as a Planning and Management Tool
The EIS system is being implemented both as a planning and management
tool and as a regulatory tool. To be effective as a planning and management
tool, the EIS system should be implemented at the earliest possible stage of
project development, thus the No. 1 policy objective. It should be made part
of the feasibility study. Each alternative should be subjected to impact
assessment so that those alternatives with high negative impacts may be
avoided. It allows the cost of mitigating and positive impact enhancement
measures to be incorporated in the total cost analysis. The environmental
objectives are made part of the project objectives. This is an improvement
over that of the old way of looking at the overall cost of the project where
environmental costs are not included. The EIS as a planning and
management tool is best used by the project proponent. However, the
Regulatory Agency or the DENR has to come to the picture to ensure that it
is used properly. The internalization of the environmental costs becomes
imperative when the project proponent knows that the DENR using the EIS
as a regulatory tool will impose conditions such that the cost of
environmental protection will be borne by the project proponent.
C.   EIS System as a Regulatory Tool
After the project is subjected to an environmental impact assessment and the
application for clearance is submitted and approved, DENR issues an
Environmental Clearance Certificate (ECC). The ECC normally list down a
set of conditions for it to be valid. These conditions stipulate what the project
proponent has to do or under what conditions will the project operate. In this
way, the DENR is able to regulate the operations of all environmentally
critical projects and projects within environmentally critical areas.
D.   Coverage and Exemptions
The rules on coverage and exemption distinguish between environmentally
critical areas (ECA) and environmentally non-critical areas (non-ECA) as
well as between environmentally critical projects (ECP) and environmentally
non-critical projects (non-ECP). The projects are where the activitie4s or
events that affect the environment happen. The potential of these events to
negatively affect the environment is what makes them environmentally
critical or not. The greater the potential, the more environmentally critical
the project is. The potential for damage of an event is dependent on the kind
of the event as well as the magnitude of the event. Thus a critical project is
not only defined by its classification or grouping but also by its magnitude.
This is apparent in the listing of critical projects in Appendix A.
Environmental Guidelines                                       Page 3 of 1I 



Everything other than the project is considered the environment. Thus all
areas other than the project area is considered part of the environment. Any
changes in the environment arising from the events within the project are
what we call environmental impacts.
There are areas that by their nature are more prone than others to changes
as a result of events occurring. For example, areas with steep slopes are more
prone to erosion than areas with flat slopes when we do excavation or earth
moving activities. The easier the area is affected by certain events, the more
environmentally critical it is.
The EIS System covers projects and undertakings categorized as
Environmentally Critical Projects and projects located in Environmentallv
Critical Areas listed in Appendix B.
Under Sec. 2 Article 1 of DAO 96-37, the following projects and undertakings
are not covered by the EIS system:
*     Projects which are non-ECP or those located in non-ECA.
*     ECPs and projects or structures within ECAs which have been
operational or in existence prior to 1982, except in cases where their
operations are expanded in terms of daily production capacity or
area, or when the process is modified.
*     Countrvside business and barangay entities (CBBEs) covered by RA
6810, otherwise known as the magna Carta for Countryside and
Barangay Business Enterprises (Kalakalan 20) and registered with
the Local Government Unit (LGU) between 1991 to 1994, inclusive.
Provided that, unless otherwise amended by law, non-coverage of
such CBBEs shall only subsist for a 5 year period beginning from its
date of registration.
The projects under MRDP, which includes rural roads and bridges,
communal irrigation and rural water supply and sanitation, do not qualify as
environmentally critical projects. As shown in Appendix, only major dams,
major power plants, major reclamation projects and major roads and
bridges are listed as environmentally critical infrastructure projects. Major
road and bridge projects are defined as the construction of all national and
provincial roads and bridges and any significant extension or improvement
thereof which will:
*     Traverse any highly developed urban areas
*     Affect the hydrology of the traversed areas
*     Substantially increase or impede traffic flow
Environmental Guidelines                                       Page 4 of 11



The rural road and bridge projects of MRDP do not fall under this
classification.
The definition of major dams is that the storage volumes must equal or
exceed 20 million cubic meters. If there is any impoundment for the
communal irrigation and rural water supply and sanitation projects of
MRDP, these will be definitely much smaller than 20 million cubic meters.
Thus these projects are also not environmentally critical.
If the MRDP project is not within an environmentally critical area, then it
will be exempted from the EIS System. However, if it is within an
environmentally critical area, then it will be within the EIS System.
III   EIS Framework for MRDP Projects
A.   General Objectives
To institutionalize the integration of the EIS system into the planning, design,
implementation, and operation of projects under MRDP.
B.   Specific Objectives
1.    To establish a standard process in complying with the requirements of
the EIS System for all projects under MRDP.
2.    To define an organizational set-up for the implementation of the EIS
System.
3.    To define the involvement of the different parties such as the project
proponents (LGUs), the beneficiaries and other stakeholders, and
MRDP in promoting the integration of the EIS system into the
planning, implementation, operation and monitoring of projects.
C.   Policies
1.    All projects under MRDP will secure all the required permits
including environmental permits and clearances to ensure that they
are environmentally sound.
2.    No assumptions will be made as to whether a project is exempted
from the EIS system or not. A "Project Description" for each project
Environmental Guidelines                                         Page 5 of 11



will be prepared and submitted to DENR, which will determine
whether the project is exempted, or under the EIS system. However, if
MRDP's knowledge of the local conditions indicate that the project
location is an ECA based on the classification described in Appendices
B and C, then this information should be submitted to DENR to
properly guide them.
3.    Although projects not covered by the EIS system are not required to
undergo social acceptability test, all projects under MRDP will be
subjected to community consultations so that environmental concerns
of all stakeholders are addressed and that the project is supported by
the public thus helping ensure sustainability.
4.    All projects including those exempted from the EIS system will have
an Environmental Management Plan and an Environmental
Monitoring Plan.
5.    Although the provision of DENR's DAO 96-37 requiring accreditation
of IEE and EIS preparers before they are allowed to prepare IEEs or
EISs has been suspended by EMB, MRDP will hire only accredited
preparers to do the IEE or EIS for the projects.
IV THE EIS SYSTEM PROCEDURE
A.   Project Screening
Fig. 1 shows the EIS process. The initial steps involve the
determination if the project is covered under the EIS system. This is
called project screening. Since all projects of MRDP are classified as
non-ECPs, it follows that they will only be covered if they are within
ECAs.
2.    ECAs are described in Appendix B and Appendix C. However, the
location of this ECAs will be difficult to determine unless these have
been plotted in a map. DENR DAO 96-37 directed all DENR Regional
Offices to prepare a delineation and mapping of all ECAs in their
respective regions. These maps are to be prepared with the
cooperation of the CENROs, PENROs, and the LGUs concerned who
will get a copy of the maps after they are completed. At present, the
Regional Offices of DENR have not submitted their maps to the
Environmental Management Bureau.
Environmental Guidelines                                      Page 6 of 11



3.    The project proponent or MRDP will prepare a map showing the
project site  relative  to  the  political boundaries  (barangay,
municipality, province) including important natural features and
landmarks of surrounding/adjacent areas such as rivers, lakes and
other water bodies, road network, known buildings, etc. If the local
CENRO or PENRO or the Municipal Planning and Development
Office have a map showing the ECAs, then this could be used to
ascertain whether the project is within an ECA. However, in the
absence of maps officially issued by DENR-RO, the project proponent
has to go to the DENR-RO for the screening of the project.
4.   In addition to the map showing the project site, MRDP will submit to
the DENR-RO an accomplished application form (ENFORM 1)
shown in Appendix D. A brief project description is also to be
submitted. With this information, the Screening Officer will decide
the Category of the Project and if it is located in an ECA, state the
ECA category. He will then decide whether to require the project
proponent to submit an Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) or
to exempt the project. Only when the project is an ECP that an EIS is
required right away. In the case of the MRDP projects that are all
non-ECP, only an IEE will be required at first, although an EIS may
be required later. If the project is exempted, he may issue a certificate
of non-coverage or require additional environmental safeguards. If
the project is exempted or is not within the ambit of the EIS System,
then no ECC will be required.
B. Securing the ECC for non-exempted Projects
l.    For non-exempted projects or projects within an ECP, MRDP will
submit to DENR-RO an IEE before an ECC could be issued.
2.    An IEE is a document required of proponents of projects located in
ECAs. It describes the environmental impacts, mitigation and
enhancement measures for the project. The IEE replaced the Project
Description (PD) required under DENR DAO 21, series of 1992.
3.    The preparation of the IEE, submission to DENR-RO, the review
process and the issuance of the ECC are discussed in detail in
Appendix E.
4.   In cases where there are unresolved environmental issues in the IEE,
DENR may require the project proponent to undertake further
studies to resolve the issue or to conduct a full blown Environmental
Environmental Guidelines                                       Page 7 of 11



Impact Assessment (EIA) and submit an EIS. The EIA required in
this case is similar to the one required for ECPs.
5.    The preparation of the EIS, submission to DENR-RO, the review
process, and the issuance of the ECC are discussed in detail in
Appendix F.
C. Preparation of the Environmental Management Plan
1.    The environmental impacts of the projects and their mitigation as
proposed in the IEE or EIS reports will form the basis of the
Environmental Management Plan.
2.    The Environmental Management Plan will include at least the
following:
* Project impacts and their corresponding mitigation and/or
enhancement measures.
*  Cost estimate of equipment, materials, and the manpower needed
to implement the measure.
* The institution or organization responsible in implementing the
measure.
* The type of agreements or guarantees that will ensure the
realization of such programs.
An Environmental Monitoring Plan.
3.   The Environmental monitoring Plan will include the project activities
that causes the impact, the parameters to be monitored, where to
monitor, the frequency of monitoring, who will be responsible for
doing it and the estimated cost.
4.    Appendix J shows a sample summary pages for the Environmental
Management Plans for a Rural Road Project, Communal Irrigation
Project, and a Water Supply Project.
5.    Appendix K shows a sample environmental monitoring program for
rural road project, communal irrigation project, and a water supply
project.
6.    The examples given in Appendices J and K are for illustration
purposes only and is not for any particular project.
Environmental Guidelines                                      Page 8 of 11



V.   MRDP ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP
A.   The proposed organizational set-up for the MRDP Environmental Impact
Statement System is shown in Figure 2. MRDP shall create an
Environmental Division headed by an Environmental Manager with at least
two environmental coordinators. The division will make sure that all MRDP
projects will get their necessary environmental permits and clearances.
B.   Each participating LGU will assign an Environmental Officer who will see to
it, in coordination with MRDP Environmental Coordinator that all projects
within his jurisdiction will get the necessary permits and clearances.
C.   The Environmental Coordinators will assist  each of the Municipal
Environmental Officers to prepare the "Project Description" of each project
in the municipality. The Project Description is a report report required by
the DENR_RO to determine whether a project is exempted or under the EIS
System.
D.   If after the Project Descriptions were reviewed by the DENR, there are
projects proven to be covered under the EIS System, the MRDP
Environmental Coordinator will assist the Municipal Environmental Officer
to prepare the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the preparation of an IEE to be
given to contractors. Appendix E that describes in detail the preparation of
the IEE will serve as a guide in the preparation of the TOR. Considering the
scope of the IEE a multi-disciplinary team is required to prepare it. It will be
more practical to get a professional consulting firm to prepare it rather than
getting a permanent staff of MRDP or the Municipality to do it.
E.   If after the DENR-EMPAS has reviewed the IEE reports submitted, it
decides to ask for a full blown EIA for some of the projects, again the MRDP
Environmental Coordinator together with the Municipal Environmental
Officers will prepare the Terms of Reference for the conduct of the EIA and
the preparation of the EIS report. As in the IEE, a contractor will do the
EIA. They will assist the chosen EIA study team to undertake the social
acceptability process.
Environmental Guidelines                                       Page 9 of 11



Fig. 1 - EIS PROCESS
Project
Proponent
Prepares Project                      DENR-RO issues
Description /'                   Certificate of exemption
Location Map
{NO
Sends to EMB
|     itanEC         P       Is ita       wiin ECA?
PoetProponent
submits it to
DENR-RO
YES                                 YES
Project                            Project
Proponent                   >      Proponent
Prepares EIS                       Prepares IEE
Submits to
Submits E                          DENR-RO                                                             wl Deficiency
to EMB                              .            Need aSu
w/ Deficiency   EMB Reviews           wl Deficienc   DENR-RO            EIS      Project Proponent    DENR-RO            DENR-RO
EIS         *                  Reviews IEE                    Prepares EIS                        Reviews EIS
DENR-RO
Ask help
from EMB
Passes Review                        Passes Review                                                    Passes Review
EMB Issues                          DENR -RO        __                                    _
ECC                             issues ECC
DENR-RO Ask help from EMB



Fig. 2 - Proposed Organizational Set-Up for MRDP EIS System
LGU    ------------------   MRDP-DENR-RO
LGU                              MRDP                             DENR
Environmental                     Environmental                       PENRO
Section                           Group
Municipal       Project           MRDP                             DENR
Environmental    Ponet           Environmental   Stakeholders        DENRON s
Officer       Ponet            Coordinator                       CNONO
Multipartite Monitoring Team



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AO                 Administrative Order
BAI                Bureau of Animal Industry
BCGS               Bureau of Coast and Geodetic Survey
BFAR               Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
PBI                Bureau of Plant Industry
BSWM               Bureau of Soil and Water Management
CENRO              Community Environment and Natural Resources Office
COMELEC             Commission on Elections
DA                 Department of Agriculture
DAO                Department Administrative Order
DAR                Department of Agrarian Reform
DILG               Department of Interior and Local Government
DND                Department of National Defense
DOH                Department of Health
DOT                Department of Tourism
DPWH                Department of Public Works and Highways
ECA                 Environmentally Critical Areas
ECC                Environmental Clearance Certificate
ECP                 Environmentally Critical Projects
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment
EIARC               EIA Review Committee
EIS                 Environmental Impact Statement
EMB                 Environmental Management Bureau
EMPAS              Environmental Management and Protected Areas Services
FMB                 Forest Management Bureau
HSRC               Human Settlement Resources Council
HLURB               Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board
ICC                Indigenous Cultural communities
IEE                 Initial Environmental Examination
ICLARM             International Center for Living Aquatic Resources Management
LGU                Local Government Unit
LLDA                Laguna Lake Development Authority
LOI                 Letter of Instruction
LWUA                Local Water Utilities Administration
MGB                 Mines and Geo-sciences Bureau
MNR                 Ministry of Natural Resources
MWSS                Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
NAMRIA             National Manpping and Resource Information Agency
NEPC               National Environment Protection Council
NGA                National Government Agency
NGO                Non-governmental Organization
NIA                National Irrigation Administration
NIGS               National Institute of Geo-sciences



NIPAS              National Integrated Protected Area System
NM                 National Museum
NRMC               National Resources Management Council
NSO                National Statistics Office
NWRB               National Water Resources Board
NWRC               National Water Resources Council
ONCC               Office of the Northern Cultural Communities
OSCC               Office of the Southern Cultural Communities
OMA                Office of Muslim Affairs
PAGASA             Philippine Atmospheric Geo-physical and Astronomical Services
Administration
PCARRD             Philippine Center for Agricultural Resources Research and Development
PCAMRD             Philippine Center for Aquatic and Marine Research and Development
PHIVOLCS           Philippine Volcanology
PTA                Philippine Tourism Authority
RED                Regional Executive Director
RO                 Regional Office
RTD                Regional Technical Director
SEI                Significant Environmental Impacts/Issues
TLRC               Technology and Livelihood Resource Council
UP-MSC             University of the Philippines Marine Science Center
UP-MSI             University of the Philippines Marine Science Institute



LIST OF APPENDICES
1. Appendix A   -  Environmentally Critical Projects
2. Appendix B  -  Environmentally Critical Areas
3. Appendix C  -  Categories of Protected Areas Under NIPAS
4. Appendix D  -  ENFORM 1: Certificate of non-coverage
5. Appendix DI -  Sample ECA Certification
6. Appendix E  -  Initial Environmental Examination of Projects
Within Environmentally Critical Areas
7. Appendix F  -  EIS for non-Environmentally Critical Projects
Located in Environmentally Critical Areas
8. Appendix G  -  Sample  Matrix  of  Potential  Significant
Environmental Impacts (SEIs) of a Road
Project
9. Appendix H  -  Accountability Statement of EIA Preparers
10. Appendix I  -  Accountability Statement of Project Proponent
11. Appendix J  -  Sample  Summary  Page:  Environmental
Management Plans for Road, Water Supply,
and Communal Irrigation Projects
12. Appendix K  -  Sample Environmental Monitoring Plan for
Road, Water Supply, and Communal Irrigation
Projects
13. Appendix L  -  Form 1: Procedural Evaluation of IEE
14. Appendix M  -  Form  2: Substantive Evaluation of IEE by
EMPAS
15. Appendix N  -  Form 1: Procedural Evaluation of EIS
16. Appendix 0  -  Form  2: Substantive Evaluation of EIS by
EIARC.



APPENDIX A
ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL PROJECTS
These are the Technical Definition and Scope of the Environmentally
Critical Projects Enumerated in Presidential Proclamation 2146:
ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL PROJECTS
A.    Heavy Industries
1 .    Non-Ferrous Metal Industries
Non-ferrous metal industries shall refer to the organized and coordinated arrangement of
manufacturing processes designed to prepare, smelt or process non-ferrous metals into
marketable products.
This classification shall include projects characterized by any of the following specifications:
a)    Classified as large-scale industrial plants under the implementing rules and
regulations of LOI No. 950;
b)    Having a designated rated capacity equal to or exceeding 3,000 metric tons
product; and
c)    Will process toxic non-ferrous metals such as cadmium, chromium and lead.
2.    Iron and Steel Mills
Iron and steel mill projects shall refer to the organized and coordinated arrangement
of manufacturing processes designed to prepare and/or smelt or process iron ores,
steel scrap and/or primary iron and steel mill products into marketable products.
This classification shall include projects characterized by any of the following
specifications:
a)    Classified as a large-scale industrial plants under the implementing rules and
regulations of Letter of Instruction (LOI) No. 950; and
b)    Having a designed annual rated capacity equal to or exceeding 30,000 metric
tons products.
3.    Petroleum and Petrochemical Industries
Environrentally Critical Projects                                       Page A-1



Petroleum/Petrochemical Industries shall refer to the organized and coordinated
arrangement of manufacturing processes designed to physically and/or chemically
transform petroleum and its derivatives into marketable products.
This classification shall include projects falling under any of the following
specifications:
a)    Classified as large-scale industrial plants under the implementing rules and
regulations of LOI No. 950;
b)    Refineries with designed capacities equal to or exceeding 30,000 barrels of
petroleum per year; and
c)    Petrochemical industry projects with designed annual rated capacities of
30,000 tons.
4.    Smelting Plants
Smelting plant projects shall refer to the organized and coordinated arrangement of
manufacturing processes designed to smelt metals or alloys and cast the same into
some special form.
This classification shall include projects falling under any of the following
specifications:
a)    Classified as large-scale industrial plants under the implementing rules and
regulations of LOI No. 950;
b)    Having a designed annual rated capacity equal to or exceeding 15,000 metric
tons raw materials; and
c)    Will process toxic non-ferrous metals such as cadmium, chromium and lead.
B.    Resource Extractive Industries
Major Mining and Quarrying Projects
Major mining and quarrying projects shall refer to projects involving the extraction
and processing of metals, metalliferous ores, fuel, precious stones, clays, fertilizers
and other earth-based materials on a commercial scale and are characterized by any
or a combination of the following:
Environmentally Critical Projects                                          Page A-2



a)    Ore-processing by cyanidization, flotation, mechanized grinding and/or
crushing, magnetic separation and or mechanized gravity concentration;
b)    Utilization of the open-pit method with mechanical operations and/or
blasting;
c)    Underground mining using blasting and/or mechanized extraction:
d)    Marine or off-shore mining; and
e)    Extraction of oil and gas.
2.    Forestry Projects
a)    Logging Projects
Logging projects shall refer to the cutting and harvesting of timber on a
commercial scale.
b)    Major Wood Processing Projects
Major wood processing projects shall refer to the processing of logs and other
forest raw materials into finished or semi-finished products.
This classification shall include, among others:
i)    sawmills
ii)    wood manufacturing/processing plants producing veneer,
plywood, wall board, blockboard, crates, etc.
iii)   pulp and paper mills
c)    Introduction of Fauna in Public/Private Forests
This shall refer to the introduction of exotic species of flora and fauna to
private/public forests.
d)    Forests Occupancy
This shall refer to the occupancy of people residing within public forests for
livelihood purposes and associated management projects.
Forest occupancy shall apply to all forest lands as defined by P.D. No. 705,
except watersheds, wildemess areas, national parks, game refuge and bird
sanctuaries subject to amendments by the BFD/MNR.
Environmentally Critical Projects                                      Page A-3



e)    Extraction of Mangrove Products
This shall refer to the cutting and gathering of mangrove timber and its
products.
f)    Grazing Projects
This shall refer to the management of forest range resources for forage
productivity needed to support livestock production.
Grazing projects shall be considered critical if such will exceed the natural
grazing capacities of the areas involved (1 head/hectare), as specified by
MNR A.0. No. 50 (1982).
3.    Dikes for/and Fishpond Development Projects
This shall refer to natural or artificial water impoundment involving dike
construction for purposes of raising fries and harvesting the same at marketable size
and quantities as specified by Fishery A.O. No. 60.
Fishpond development projects shall be considered critical if such will involve
utilization of areas equal to or greater than 25 hectares.
C.    Infrastructure Projects
1.    Major Dams
This shall refer to all impoundment structures and appurtenances with storage
volumes equal to or exceeding 20 million cubic meters.
2.    Major Power Plants
This shall refer to power generating plants utilizing, or are run by, fossil fuels,
geothermal resources, the nuclear fission process, natural river discharge, pondage or
pump storage.
This classification shall include all nuclear power plants, all geothermal power
plants, thermal power plants with rated capacities equal to or exceeding 10
megawatts and hydroelectric power plants with rated capacities equal to or exceeding
6 megawatts.
3.    Major Reclamation Projects
Environmentally Critical Projects                                        Page A-4



This shall refer to projects which involve the filling or draining of areas (foreshore,
marshes, swamps, lakes, rivers, etc.) equal to or exceeding one (1) hectare.
4.    Major Roads and Bridges
This shall refer to the construction of all national and provincial roads and bridges
and any significant extension or improvement thereof which will:
a)    Traverse any highly developed urban area(s);
b)    Affect the hydrology of the traversed area(s); and
c)     Substantially increase or impede traffic flow.
Environmnentally Critical Projects                                            Page A-5



APPENDIX B
ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS
A.   All areas declared by law as national parks, watershed reserves, wildlife
preserves and sanctuaries
By virtue of Section 3, P.D. No. 705:
1.   National parks shall refer to forest land reservations essentially of
primitive wilderness character which have been withdrawn from
settlement or occupancy and set aside as such, exclusively to
preserve the scenery, natural and historic objects and the wild
animals and plants therein to provide enjoyment of these features in
such a manner as will have them unimpaired for future generations.
This classification shall include all areas declared as national parks
by statutes such as Proclamation No. 634, 612, 55, etc.
2.   Watershed  Reserves  shall refer to  forest land  reservations
established to improve the quality or condition of the water yield
thereof or reduce sedimentation.
This classification shall include all areas declared as national
watershed reserves.
3.   Wildlife preserves shall refer to forest lands designated for the
protection of game animals, birds and fishes and closed to hunting
and fishing in order that the excess may flow and restock
surrounding areas.
B.   Areas set aside as aesthetic potential tourist spots
Aesthetic potential tourist spots shall refer to areas declared and reserved
by the Philippine Tourism Authority for tourism development.
C.   Areas which constitute the habitat for any endangered or threatened
species of indigenous Philippine wildlife (flora and fauna)
This shall refer to wilderness areas and areas such as Mt. Bako, Mt. Apo,
etc., which are natural habitats of endangered or threatened, rare and
indeterminate species of flora and fauna.
Environmentally Critical Areas                                     Page B-I



1.   Indeterminate species shall refer to plant or animal species which
are apparently endangered but where insufficient data are currently
available for a reliable assessment.
2.   Threatened species shall refer to any plant or animal species which
is likely to become endangered species within the foreseeable future
throughout all or just a significant portion of its range.
3.    Rare species shall refer to plant or animal species which are not
under immediate threat of extinction but occurs in small numbers.
4.    Endangered species shall refer to plant or animal species which are
actively threatened with extinction and whose survival are unlikely
without protective measures.
D.   Areas of unique historic, archeological, or scientific interests
Areas of unique historic, archeological or scientific interest shall refer to
military and non-military shrines which are of cultural and historical
significance to the nation.
This classification shall include national historical landmarks and
paleontological and anthropological reservations.
E.   Areas which are traditionally occupied by cultural communities or tribes
This shall refer to all ancestral lands of National Cultural Communities
identified in Sec. 1 of P.D. No. 410 and settlements designed,
implemented and maintained by the PANAMIN for national minorities (non-
Muslim hill tribes referred to in P.D. No. 719).
F.    Areas frequently visited and or hard-hit by natural calamities (geologic
hazards, floods, typhoons, volcanic activity, etc.)
1.   Areas frequently visited or hard-hit by typhoons
This shall refer to all areas where typhoon signal no. 3 was hoisted
for at least twice a year during the period 1 977-1982.
2.   Areas frequently visited and hard-hit by tsunamis
Environmentally Critical Areas                                       Page B-2



This shall refer to all coastal zones and offshore areas subjected to
an earthquake of at least intensity VIl in the Rossi-Forel scale and
hit by tsunamis during the period 1638-1976.
3.   Areas frequently visited and/or hard hit by earthquakes
This shall refer to all areas subjected to earthquakes of at least
intensity VIl in the Rossi-Forel scale during the period 1949-1980.
4.    Storm surge-prone areas
This shall refer to all areas identified as such by the PAGASA.
5.   Flood-prone areas
This shall refer to low-lying areas usually adjacent to large active
water bodies experiencing regular or seasonal inundation as a result
of changes in mean water level of these water bodies.
G.   Areas with critical slope
This shall refer to all lands with slope of 40% or more not classified in this
listing as environmentally critical.
This classification shall cover alienable and disposable forest lands and
unclassified forests.
H.   Areas classified as prime agricultural lands
Prime agricultural lands shall refer to lands of capability classes A, B, Ce,
De as determined by the land Capability Classification Guide of the Bureau
of Soils, but shall not include lands that shall be devoted to non-
agricultural purposes or are part of permanent reserves, as designated in
the zoning ordinance approved by HSRC.
1.    Recharged areas of aquifers
Recharged areas of aquifers shall refer to sources of water replenishment
where rainwater or seepage actually enters the aquifers.
Areas under this classification shall be limited to all local or non-national
watersheds and geothermal reservations.
Environmentally Critical Areas                                        Page B-3



J.    Waterbodies
Waterbodies shall refer to waters which are tapped for domestic purposes,
within the controlled and/or protected areas declared by the appropriate
authorities and which support wildlife and fishery activities.
This classification shall cover all fresh surface waterbodies which are
Class AA, A, B and C as per NPCC classification. Likewise, this shall
include all marine turtle and fish sanctuaries.
K.   Mangrove Areas
Mangrove areas are tidal areas covered by salt-tolerant, intertidal tree
species.
This classification shall refer to areas declared as mangrove swamp forest
reserves by Proclamation No. 2152 and mangrove forests declared as
wilderness areas by Proclamation No. 2151.
L.    Coral Reefs
Coral reefs shall refer to areas characterized by the assemblage of different
types of marine plants and organisms belonging to Phylum Coelenterata.
This classification shall include all areas identified by local sources such as
the Marine Sciences Center or UP-NSRC, NRMC, etc. to be rich harvest
grounds for commercial varieties of corals.
Enviromnentally Critical Areas                                       Page B4



APPENDIX C
CATEGORIES OF PROTECTED AREAS UNDER THE NIPAS
The National Integrated Protected Areas System (NIPAS) encompass outstandingly
remarkable areas and biologically important public lands that are habitats of rare
and endangered species of plants and animals, biogeographic zones and related
ecosystems, whether terrestial, wetland or marine, all of which are designated as
protected amas
The following are categories and definitions of protected areas:
1.   Natural Park
A relatively large area not materially altered by human activity where
extractive resource uses are not allowed and maintained to protect
outstanding natural and scenic areas of national or international significance
for scientific, educational and recreational use.
2.   Protected Landscapes/Seascapes
Areas of national significance which are characterized by the harmonious
interaction of man and land while providing opportunities for public
enjoyment through recreation and tourism within the normal lifestyle and
economic activity of these areas.
3.   Resource Reserve
An extensive and relatively isolated and uninhabited area normally with
difficult access designated as such to protect natural resources of the area
for future use and prevent or contain development activities that could affect
the resource pending the establishment of objectives which are based upon
appropriate knowledge and planning.
4.   Strict Nature Reserve
An area possessing some outstanding ecosystem, features and/or species of
flora and fauna of national scientific importance maintained to protect nature
and maintain processes in an undisturbed state in order to have ecological
representative examples of the natural environment available for scientific
Page C-I



study, environmental monitoring, education and for the maintenance of
genetic resources in a dynamic and evolutionary state.
5.   Wildlife Sanctuary
Comprises an area which assures the natural conditions necessary to protect
nationally significant species, groups of species, biotic communities or
physical features of the environment where these may require specific human
manipulation for their perpetuation.
6.   Natural Biotic Area
An area set aside to allow the way of life of societies living in harmony with
the environment to adapt to modern technology at their pace.
7.   Natural Monument
A relatively small area focused on protection of small features to protect or
preserve nationally significant natural features on account of their special
interest or unique characteristics.
Page C-2



APPENDIX Dl
SAMPLE ECA CERTIFICATION
Republic of the Philippines
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Community Environment & Natural Resources Officer (CENRO) Office
Municipality of Rizal, Palawan Province
Region     3
19 March 1999
Date
ECA CERTIFICATION
This is to certify that the proposed    Fruit Processing Plant
(indicate name of project/undertaking)
of   Elwin Enterprises, Incorporated
(indicate name of proponent/applicant)
located in    San Fernando, Pampanga
(as shown in the attached location map) has been determined to be within the
area classified as prime agricultural land       , an identified
(state ECA category)
Environmentally Critical Area.
This certification is issued for purposes of screening projects falling within ECAs
and the proponent's compliance to the EIA system.
Mariano Cruz
(Name & Signature of CENRO)
DENR-CENRO No.         12
Sample ECA Certification                                            Page Dl
-1



APPENDIX E
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN
ENVRONMENTALLY CRITCAL AREAS
A.   Definition and Delineation of Environmentally Critical Areas
An initial environmental examination (IEE) is required of  projects or
undertakings  sited  in  environmentally  critical  areas  (ECAs).  An
environmentally critical area is an area that is considered ecologically
sensitive. This includes those listed under Presidential Proclamation Nos. 803
and 2146 as well as areas proclaimed by the president as environmentally
critical in accordance with Section 4 of PD 1 586.
Appendix B provides the technical definitions of ECAs and scope as
contained in the NEPC Office Circular No. 3. In addition, Republic Act 7586
referred to as the National Integrated Protected Areas System Act of 1992"
or NIPAS provides for a comprehensive system of protected areas within the
category of national park encompassing the following:
* strict nature reserve
* nature park
* natural monument
* wildlife sanctuary
* protected landscapes & seascapes
* resource reserve
* natural biotic areas
* other categories established by law, conventions or international
agreements which the Philippine Government is a signatory
Appendix C provides the definition of NIPAS categories.
B.    Project Screening
The DENR Regional Offices (DENR-RO) exercise jurisdiction over projects or
undertakings falling within ECAs. It is therefore the responsibility of each
DENR-RO to determine and delineate ECAs within its regional coverage based
on the given definitions and characterizations. At present DENR Regional
offices find difficulty to ascertain if a project or undertaking is indeed located
in an ECA. This is because many of the defined ECAs have not been spatially
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-1



identified and delineated on the map. DENR-RO is expected to come up with
a comprehensive map soon. In the meantime that no ECA map is available.
project proponents may ask the heip of the local CENRO or PENRO in
determining whether the project site is within an ECA. The proponent may
also do some research to find out if the project area is within an ECA by
consulting some organizations such as those listed in Table 1.
Table 1 Information Sources for Environmentally Critical Areas
ECA CATEGORY                          DATA SOURCES
1 .   National Parks (protected areas),  DENR-PAWB, NIPA, LGUs, UP MSI,
Watershed Areas, Forest and     BFAR
Wildlife Reservations and Marine
Sanctuaries
2.   Existing and potential tourists  DOT, PTA, LGUs, Tourism Councils
spots                           (local)
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-2



ECA CATEGORY                         DATA SOURCES
3.   Areas of unique historical,     National Museum, UP Anthropological
archaeological or scientific   Museum, National Historical
importance                     Commission, Office of Nationai Cultural
Communities
4.   Areas traditionally occupied by    DENR, Institute of Philippine Culture
cultural communities (ICCs)    (Ateneo), Office of National Cultural
Communities, National Museum,
Anthropological Society, NGOs and
LGUs.
5.   Areas frequently visited and/or    PHIVOLCS, DENR, PAGASA, NIA-
hit by natural calamities (geologic  NWRC, DPWH, BSWM
hazards, floods, typhoons,
volcanic activity)
6.   Areas with critical slopes      NAMRIA, BSWM, DENR, LGUs
7.   Areas classified as prime       Department of Agriculture, DAR, LGUs
agricultural lands
8.   Recharge areas of aquifers      DENR, DPWH, LWUA, NWRC, Local
water districts
9.   Bodies of water                 PAWB, NWRB, DPWH, LWUA, NIA,
LGUs, NAMRIA
10.  Mangrove areas                  DENR, DA-BFAR, local academic
institutions, LGUs, NGOs
11.  Coral Reefs                     NAMRIA, UP-MSI, ICLARM, PCAMRD,
DA-BFAR, DENR, LGUs
However, if in spite of the above efforts, it could not be determined, the
project proponent should go to DENR-RO. A Screening Officer will be
assigned by the EMPAS to screen projects that may fall within ECAs and
determine whether IEE is required. The Screening Officer will:
* provide the proponent a copy of the Project Screening Form (Enform 1,
see Appendix D)
* instruct proponent to fill up  the form  and attach location map and
certification provided by the CENRO (if one has been obtained)
* submit completed form
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-3



Upon receipt of the screening form, the Screening Officer will:
* fill out the DENR portion of Enform 1.
* if the project is within an ECA, the IEE Yes box is marked check.and the
project proponent is required to submit an IEE.
* if the project is considered  not covered by the EIS system, the non-
coverage Yes box will be checked.
* the certificate of non-coverage (see Appendix D) will be given by the
DENR Regional Director or by EMB  upon the request of the project
proponent
C.   Preparation of Initial Environmental Examination (IEE)
1.   An IEE is a document required of proponents describing  the
environmental impacts of, and mitigation and enhancement measures
for, projects or undertakings located in an ECA. The IEE replaces the
Project Description (PD) required under DAO 21, series of 1992. The
purposes of the IEE are to:
* identify all potential environmental issues/ impacts associated with
the project type relative to the ECA location;
* identify all significant environmental impacts (SEls);
* resolve all significant environmental impacts within the scope of
the iEE; and
* recommend additional studies and/or an EIS to resolve outstanding
issues/ impacts
The lEE is linked to the EIS to resolve unsettled and complex
environmental issues raised in the lEE, . In such cases, the lEE
provides the focus and tasks to be performed in the EIS and develops
the background for these issues.
2.   The Environmental Management Bureau (EMB), after issuing the
procedural manual for the implementation of DAO 96-37, required the
preparer to be at least an Environmental Associate duly accredited by
EMB or the DENR-RO. This requirement however was temporarily
suspended by EMB by Memorandum Circular No. 2, Series of 1998
issued by the Director.
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-4



3.    Scoping is not mandatory in the preparation of an IEE. Depending on
the proponent's assessment and knowledge of the IEE requirement, he
may or may not go through the scoping process. However, it is to the
advantage of the proponent to initiate a scoping meeting with DENR-
RO to guide him in establishing the range of actions to be undertaken,
and the alternatives and impacts to be examined. A scoping session
with DENR-RO will enable the proponent to familiarize himself with the
requirements and processes of doing an iEE. Specifically, DENR-RO
can help the proponent during the scoping meeting determine the
following:
. environmental issues that may arise from the project using as
references available Scoping Guidelines for Projects in ECAs (see
Table 2). Note that no official IEE scoping guidelines have been
issued for the kind of project MRDP will be implementing.
However, the DENR-RO may have some draft guidelines for said
projects. Experienced IEE/EIS preparer should also be able to define
the scope for each kind of project.
* Where there are no available scoping guidelines, DENR-RO may
refer to or cite important environmental impacts/issues raised in
similar projects reviewed by DENR to guide the proponent.
* identify affected parties and other government agencies that have
jurisdictions over the project. For instance, when the project deals
with  land   conversion,  the
Department of Agriculture (DA)                  Table 2
and the Department of Agrarian      IEE Scoping Guidelines Available for
Reform (DAR) are the important    Projects in Environmentally Critical Areas
national government agencies       Agro-processing projects
to be consulted. The affected      Fishpond development projects ( <25
parties would include the LGUs     hectares)
and local communities.             Food/Chemical processing plants
Housing subdivisions
*  discuss the contents of the IEE    Land Conversions
Memorial parks/cemeteries
and answer general questions       Poultry and piggery projects
related    to   review    and      Small-scale tourism projects
evaluation requirements.
*  provide references on other sources of data/studies relevant to the
project in accordance with established policies and procedures as
may be prescribed by the DENR RED.
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-5



provide a list of accredited IEE preparers (both local and national)
which may be tapped by the proponent to undertake the IEE. Note
that the accreditation has been suspended. However, it will still be
of help to MRDP to chose from the list if and when it decides to
get outside help in the preparation of the IEE.
The scoping also helps the proponent make a decision whether to:
. go  through  with  the  IEE  with  the  knowledge  that most
issues/impacts will be settled within its scope; or
 voluntarily proceed to EIS preparation knowing fully well that the
project may have significant environmental issues that cannot be
dealt with exhaustively in the IEE.
The decision of a proponent to proceed direct to EIS preparation for a
project sited in an ECA (but not considered an ECP) should be guided
in general by any or a combination of the following factors:
* size of the project;
* fragility of the project site;
* project components and production process; and
* to some extent, capital investment.
The following illustrate conditions and examples of projects located in
ECAs which can proceed immediately to EIS.
a.  The project  would occupy a relatively big area (more than a
hectare) to be levelled, cleared of vegetation, land conversion and
investment cost is high. Its operation will also result in the
generation of a considerably large volume of solid wastes and
wastewater including possible contamination of ground water.
The new road projects of MRDP will fall under this category.
However, rehabilitation of existing roads may not.
b.  The project may or may not occupy a big area but will have
various activities that will require vegetation clearing, earthfilling,
ground  leveling, alteration  of river  course,  relocation  of
communities during construction and will result in considerable
alteration in landscape.
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-6



c.  The project may occupy only a small area but will have various
components and activities that will involve processes requiring
high water consumption, use of toxic chemicals and other
harmful substances and would generate wastewater.
d.  The project may involve putting up temporary or permanent
underwater structures which may cause disturbance/destruction
of coral reefs and marine life.
The communal irrigation projects may also fall under a, b, and c.
However, since the scale of MRDP projects are normally small, it may
be best to go through the lEE process first. If it turns out an EIS is not
needed, this will save on cost. If an EIS is needed, the IEE will help
focus the study to the critical issues does preventing un-necessary
costs.
If it is determined that an EIS is necessary, then this will be prepared
as described in Appendix F. The DENR Regional Office shall assume
the role of reviewing and validating the submitted EIS. Furthermore,
the RED shall decide on the issuance or denial of ECC.
4.    Because the IEE is not a full-scale assessment, information may come
primarily from existing reports/studies supplemented by some field
data and consultations with affected stakeholders.
The following are the required basic information:
a.  Project-related information on:
, project location - delineation and mapping of project site
relative  to  political  jurisdiction/boundaries  (barangay,
municipality, province, region) and ECA location.
 purpose of the project
. project description  including  components,  process  of
operation and phasing (construction phase, operational phase
and abandonment phase)
b.  Environmental setting and receiving environment
* delineation/mapping of primary and secondary impact areas
of the project
* secondary and baseline data gathering, where relevant, on:
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-7



=>   land
=~>   water
=>   air
c.  socio-economic information on the following:
.  population to be affected in the direct and indirect impact
areas
*  socio-cultural characteristics, particularly those that concern
indigenous communities;
. economic  and  socio-cultural activities  that would  be
affected.
. Community/local perceptions of the project to determine
socio-economic issues and social acceptability.
.  Public consultations and  documentation  of consultative
processes (informal or formal).
5.    Based  on  the  relevant information  gathered, identification  and
assessment of impacts will be carried out by either any or combination
of the following:
*  applying  objective judgment of   their magnitude  based  on
qualitative descriptions;
X quantifying impacts (where possible); or
* attaching economic or monetary values on the impacts.
The following are essential steps:
* identify/prepare checklist of potential environmental issues/impacts
(biophysical and social) impinging on the project by development
phase.
. briefly describe, evaluate and classify impacts as positive or
negative.
. assess probability/frequency of occurrence or description of
circumstances when impacts are likely to occur.
* assess time scale of impacts (long-term or short-term)
assess geographical extent of impact (in terms of area disturbed)
assess reversibility or permanence of impact: For impacts that are
short-term, such as construction impacts, can the affected
environmental resources recover?
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-8



. assess overall magnitude of impact (major - significant/severe,
minor - moderate, negligible- insignificant)
The different environmental impacts and their degree of significance
at various stages of development should be summarized in a matrix of
environmental impacts. A sample matrix for a road project is shown in
Appendix G.
6.   A  simplified environmental management plan (EMP) to address
significant environmental impacts (SEis) will be prepared incorporating
the following:
* proposed mitigation and enhancement measures
The proposed protection and enhancement measures for SEis
identified at the various stages of the project should answer the
following questions:
= what are the measures proposed;
> when and how are they going to be implemented;
> how much will it cost the proponent to implement such
protection and enhancement measures;
When impacts are considered  not significant, no mitigation
measures are necessary. However, some enhancement measures
may be provided to maintain and strengthen the affected
resources.
* recommendations for unresolved issues, when appropriate
When there are pending SEls that cannot be solved within the
scope of the IEE, recommendations for additional studies and EIS
should be made.
* monitoring plan
A simple monitoring plan will be formulated with the following
elements:
> activities/parameters to be monitored
> specific areas to be monitored
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-9



manner of monitoring
> frequency and cost of monitoring
> institutional responsibilities for monitoring
The proposed mitigation and enhancement measures should be
summarized in a matrix as illustrated in Appendix J . A matrix of
monitoring plan should also be prepared as shown in Appendix K
7.   The IEE report to be submitted by the project proponent should
contain both the procedural and substantive requirements of DENR-RO
for review and evaluation. The following shall be the minimum
requirement and format/outline of the IEE report:
A.   Communication of Results
a.   Table of Contents
b.   Executive Summary (brief description of substantive content)
c.   List of IEE Preparers and their respective expertise area in the
IEE
d.   Sworn  Accountability  Statements  of key  lEE  Preparers
(Appendix H)
e.   Sworn Accountability Statement of Project Proponent (Appendix
I)
f.   Process Documentation (an Annex to the IEE Report)
9.   Proof of Social Acceptability
h.   Certificate of locational viability/locational clearance or zoning
certificate for areas that have already been zoned
i.    References/Bibliography
B.   Substantive Content
a.   Project Description to include:
* description and map of project location
 project purpose/rationale
* general description of project design/plan
* project components and activities
. description of components and activities by development
phase
> pre-construction/construction  phase    (facilities
development)
> operation phase (technology, raw materials and
process)
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-10



abandonment phase (abandonment plan)
b.   Methodology for Data Gathering to include process and content
description of:
* secondary data gathered and sources
* primary/baseline data
-  public consultations
. process documentation of consultative activities (an annex
to the IEE Report)
c.   Description   of  Environmental  Setting   and   Receiving
Environment:
* delineation/mapping of primary and secondary impact areas
* description of existing biophysical environment
* description of existing socio-cultural-economic environment
* discussion of future environmental conditions without the
project
d.   Impact Identification and Assessment
* summary matrix of predicted environmental issues/impacts
and their level of significance at various stages of
development
* brief discussion of specific significant impacts on the
physical and biological resources
. brief discussion of significant socioeconomic effects/impacts
of the project including:
> discussion  of indigenous people's  concerns and
possible socioe-conomic, political and cultural impacts
of a project or undertaking in ancestral lands or
domains, as defined under DAO 2 series of 1993, or
subsequently by law, of indigenous communities.
w discussion of gender issues if projects will have
significant impacts on women.
=> discussion   of  relationship  among   population,
development and environment for projects with
significant impact on population.
e.   Environmental Management Plan
* summary matrix of proposed mitigation and enhancement
measures, estimated cost and responsibilities
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL ExAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-1 1



* brief discussion of mitigation and enhancement measures
* monitoring plan
* contingency plan (if applicable)
* institutional responsibilities and agreements
f.    Recommendations
list of resolved issues
* list of partially resolved issues
* new issues arising from the IEE that have been resolved
8.   In accordance with Section 3, Article IV of DAO 37, the project
proponent should ensure that the public's concerns are fully integrated
into the IEE process. Evidence of public participation and social
acceptability shall form part of the supporting documents to be
submitted with the iEE.
Public consultations should be conducted, on a per need basis, for
projects in environmentally critical areas. Based on the review
findings, the RTD for EMPAS may call for a public consultation to
review the proposed project and its environmental impacts and
mitigating measures.
Unlike a public hearing, a public consultation is by invitation only, and
there is no required public notice. Instead, the public consultation is
used specifically to address and resolve concerns brought to the
attention of the DENR regional office. The project proponent or a
designated representative must be present during the public
consultation to respond to comments and questions.
The proponent is however advised to consult the local community
early in the process, particularly during the initial stages of the IEE.
Public fora such as, but not limited to, public meetings, informal
consultations, focused-group  discussions, workshops,   shall be
conducted by the proponent/preparer to provide stakeholders with
relevant information on the project and determine their perceptions
and ideas on the potential impacts of such project on their
socioeconomic well being.
The proponent need not wait for the DENR regional office to initiate
community involvement. Early involvement will help public opposition
to surface and provide the proponent an opportunity to implement a
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-12



socially acceptable project. It may also alleviate the need for a formal
public consultation.
Evidence of social acceptability may be manifested, among others,
through the following:
. agreements with the affected communities on proposed mitigation
and  enhancement  measures  duly  recorded  during  public
consultations;
. project endorsements/resolutions  of  community  leaders/local
governments;
absence of oppositions during consultations;
. assurances/guarantees provided by the proponent addressing
specific issues/impacts raised by the stakeholders; and
* proof of public consultation/public participation in the IEE process.
Such proofs of social acceptability shall be duly documented and
summarized together with the EMP matrix.
9.   The project proponent is required to submit a minimum of ten (10)
legible copies of the IEE Report to DENR-RO (EMPAS) for review.
Additional copies however may be required by EMPAS, as necessary.
The proponent shall also submit to EMPAS, along with the hard copy
reports, one set of a complete electronic file of the IEE in computer
diskettes. The following are required for the computer file:
a  file to be copied in 3.5 high density diskettes formatted in DOS
Version 5.0 or Window-based and readable using IBM or
equivalent compatible PCs;
*  a written listing of filenames and their contents;
*  indicate computer software and versions used for word processing
(such as Word Perfect Version 3 or Microsoft Word version 3) and
quantitative analyses/tables (such as Lotus 123 release 3, Excel or
Quattro Pro).
10.  The review  and evaluation consists of two parts; the procedural
review and the substantive review.
A.   Procedural Review
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-13



In accordance with Section 20, Article III of DAO 96-37, the
proponent submits the IEE to the EMPAS. Immediately upon receipt of
the IEE documents, the EMPAS:
determine its completeness using the procedural review criteria set
forth in Appendix L.
Immediate determination shall mean completion of procedural
review within the day of submission, or at the latest, the next
working day after submission.
the receiving officer/personnel only determine the completeness of
the submitted document. No judgment shall be made on the
accuracy, presentation and/or adequacy of the information
contained in the IEE.
- if the IEE documents are found incomplete, it is returned to the
proponent immediately for completion or revision.
lEE documents submitted are screened in accordance with the
procedural review criteria following the steps indicated below:
a.   The receiving officer prepares three (3) sets of the procedural
form to be accomplished. One copy is given to the proponent,
one copy is attached to the Master Copy, and one copy shall
be attached to the File Copy.
b)   The receiving officer indicates, through a check/tick mark under
the YES or NO column, the presence or absence of a particular
information required.
c)   If the IEE documents are complete, they are formally accepted.
The proponent is notified of the acceptance by furnishing him a
copy of the procedural form   duly signed by the EMPAS
Receiving Officer.
d)   If they are incomplete,  the IEE documents (except for the
Master and File Copies) is returned to the proponent for revision
and/or submission of the missing requirement. The reason for
non-acceptance is stated in writing at the appropriate place in
the form.
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-14



e)   The EMPAS undertakes substantive review of the IEE within 1 5
days from submission of the complete documents.
B.   Substantive Review
The substantive review is carried out by evaluating compliance of the
IEE to the substantive content required for each review criterion (Form
2) as shown in Appendix M. In general, the review criteria will focus
on the following categories:
* completeness of information to the prescribed level of detail
* clarity of information
* appropriateness
* accuracy and precision of information/assessment
The steps and processes for the substasntive review are as follows:
a.   The EMPAS under the guidance of the RTD-EMPAS constitutes
a technical review team from the DENR-RO internal staff and
designate a Chairman to manage and coordinate the review
process. The RTD, however, may at his discretion invite experts
from the academe, other agencies and EIA practitioners to serve
as resource persons.
b.   Using  the  substantive  review  criteria, EMPAS  assesses
sufficiency of information and content of the IEE documents to
warrant thorough evaluation of the project's environmental
impacts. This would be done by simply indicating a check/tick
mark in the PASS (P) or FAIL (F) column to rate each category
in'the MUST requirements/criteria.
It is noted that the criteria are broad to cover all types of
projects. In rating therefore, the EMPAS should exercise
judgment as to which categories are applicable to a particular
project.
c.   Based -on the initial review  of IEE documents, the EMPAS
determines whether the minimum information required was met
or additional information is needed. If information is sufficient,
EMPAS   proceeds with the evaluation. If the EMPAS finds the
IEE submission as insufficient in its scope, detail or both, it
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-15



provides the proponent with a detailed section-by-section
account of additional information required to evaluate the IEE.
11.  After the initial review of the IEE including the process documentation
report,  the EMPAS may recommend validation through any or a
combination of the following:
* site visit and ocular inspection to verify suitability of the project to
the proposed site.
. conduct additional samples/studies to validate some technical
parameters/information.
. informal consultations to validate socioeconomic impacts and social
acceptability.
The DENR-RO notifies the PENRO/CENRO or LGU that it must conduct
a site visit and report back, in writing, any findings relative to the
specific areas to be validated. The PENRO/CENRO or LGU submits the
findings to the DENR-RO and EMPAS determines whether the
inspection warrants additional information, a revised IEE submission or
no action at all.
12.  The EMPAS internally or with the support of resource persons
convenes to finalize the evaluation process. The IEE documents will be
assessed based on the accuracy of data, applicability and adequacy of
proposed mitigating/enhancement measures as well as monitoring
program using the review criteria as the guide.
13.  The EMPAS, as deemed  necessary, may recommend  a public
consultation to be conducted to collect public comment on the
proposed project or validate social acceptability.
14.  The EMPAS compiles the written comments/clarifications arising from
the evaluation, inciuding those from  the validation   and public
consultation. A request in writing will be made to the proponent to
address the comments and provide additional information to
adequately evaluate the project. If the information required are not
very substantive and clarificatory in nature, the EMPAS may just
arrange for a meeting with the proponent to answer questions and
clarify matters verbally.
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-16



15.  Once all pertinent information has been obtained, the EMPAS is
expected to finish the review/evaluation within 30 days upon receipt
of the IEE documents.
16.  The EMPAS' recommendation is carefully weighed and guided by the
following consideration:
Is the project explicitly or implicitly within the priority of the LGUs
for the area's development?
Is it compatible with the municipal/provincial/regional framework
plan,  regional/local  investment  plan  and  other  approved
development plans affecting the project area and its larger
environment?
Is it compatible with existing/proposed environmental and resource
management plans for the area?
Is it consistent with locally enacted laws/ordinances?
Will the social benefits far outweigh the negative environmental
impacts the project will create?
. Are there new information obtained by the EMPAS, such as
position papers/letters from stakeholders and other external
sources/influence groups, in support or against the project?
17.  From the completion of IEE review/evaluation, the EMPAS, within 15
days prepares the report to the RED to be signed by the Chairman and
concurred by the RTD-EMPAS. The report will contain either of the
following:
recommendation for the issuance of an ECC with conditions;
If the EMPAS finds that the iEE has substantially addressed all the
significant impacts and relevant issues by way of mitigation and
enhancement measures, it shall recommend the issuance of the
ECC. The report includes a summary description of the project or
undertaking presenting the following:
> environmental impacts and corresponding costed mitigation
and enhancement measures;
> key issues/concerns;
> proponent's response to issues;
> compliance with review criteria, technical and substantive
content and social acceptability requirements; and
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-17



> acceptability of the proposed EMP.
The RTD-EMPAS prepares, together with the ECC issuance
recommendation, the ECC document. An ECC can have specific
conditions  including  scope  of    operations  (limitations),
construction/installation of an adequate waste treatment facility,
specificities on the mitigation measures, emissions/discharges
conforming with DENR standards, monitoring measures, safety
measures  including  appropriate  emergency  response  and
contingency plans, additional environmental studies (if necessary),
employment preference for local residents, demonstration of social
acceptability, all permits to be secured before beginning operation,
and applicability of the ECC in case of transfer of ownership.
* recommendation that the proponent prepares a full EIS; or
If it has been determined by the EMPAS that some significant
impacts have not been resolved by the IEE and that additional
studies would be needed to fully address them, an EIS will be
recommended for the proposed project. The RTD-EMPAS drafts a
letter notifying the proponent to prepare and submit an EIS.
An EIS may be recommended in the following instances:
significant environmental impacts have not been adequately
addressed  by  proposed  mitigation  and  enhancement
measures
= strong public opposition/low social acceptability
=> high public risk
> use of highly pollutive substances producing toxic/hazardous
wastes
= significant socio-cultural impacts
* recommendation of denial of the ECC.
If the IEE has been evaluated as not having satisfied the
substantive requirements, the EMPAS recommends denial of ECC.
In case of an ECC denial recommendation, the following is
contained in the report to the RED:
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-18



identification of specific issues and comments that have not
been satisfied by the proponent; and
> draft letter to inform proponent of ECC denial.
The proponent can however submit additional information to correct
the defects or inadequacy of the IEE for further consideration.
17.  The EMPAS report is submitted to the RED for final decision. The RED
reviews and evaluates the report/recommendations. The RED may
follow or disregard the recommendation of the EMPAS depending on
his evaluation of larger concerns that may have implications on the
social and environmental context relative to the judicious utilization,
development and conservation of the country's natural resources.
18.  The RED makes a decision within 15 days from receipt of the EMPAS
report, unless circumstances warrant a longer period, to:
* either grant or deny the issuance of the ECC; or
* decide that an EIS is further required.
A letter will be sent to the proponent informing him/her of the RED's
decision. If ECC is granted, the same shall be issued to the proponent
copy furnished concerned PENRO/CENRO, LGUs and other institutions.
If the project is denied an ECC, the project proponent may submit a
revised IEE to correct the defects of the original IEE. However, if the
project is denied an ECC for the third time, the project proponent will
have to undertake an EIA and submit an EIS for it to be reconsidered.
If the RED decides that an EIS is required, the proponent is informed of
the decision in writing. The RED then determines the following:
a)   whether the IEE process was sufficient for scoping purposes or
not.
b)   if the RED deems a new scoping is necessary, the guidelines for
formal scoping as outlined in Appendix F applies. The
responsibilities for scoping would be lodged to the EMPAS and
the Regional EIARC to be constituted for the project.
c)   if the RED decides to forego scoping, the IEE serves as the
scoping report. The proponent however, may at his discretion,
volunteer to go through the formal scoping process.
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-19



d)    The EIS process and content shall follow the same requirements
provided for in the EIS procedural flow discussed in Appendix F.
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION OF PROJECTS WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS PAGE E-20



APPENDIX F
EIS FOR NON-ECPS LOCATED IN ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS
A.   Introduction
1.   Some non-ECPs located in ECAs must prepare an environmental impact
statement (EIS). Appendix E describe the kind of projects that can be
assumed to fall under this category even before an IEE is submitted and
evaluated to determine if an EIS is necessary. In some cases, the
necessity of an EIS is known only after an IEE has been prepared and
assessed.
2.   The DENR-RO is responsible for the review of EIS for non-ECPs located
in ECAs. However, if they do not have the expertise, then they may ask
the help of the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB).
B.   EIS Preparation
SCOPING SESSION:
1 .   The first step in the preparation of the EIS is the scoping session. DAO
96-37 defined scoping as the stage in the EIS System where information
and assessment requirements are established to provide the proponent
with the scope of work for the EIS. It is the first and most critical step in
the EIS process. This is where most of the key issues and concerns in
the EIS are discussed, clarified and agreed upon among the key actors
(e.g. proponent, preparer, EMB, DENR Regional Office, PENRO, CENRO,
LGUs, other NGAs, EIARC and stakeholders) of the EIS system. More
importantly, it prepares the proponent in handling the issue of social
acceptability, which is a critical requirement in the ECC application.
2    If an IEE was submitted before it was determined that an EIS is
necessary, then the IEE and the evaluation report will provide valuable
information for the scoping. In the evaluation of the IEE, the Regional
Executive Director (RED) of DENR decides whether the IEE could serve
as the scoping report or a new scoping is necessary.
3    If a new scoping is deemed necessary by the RED, then the scoping
process shall be undertaken to:
non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



* provide an early link between the DENR and the proponent to ensure
that the EIA addresses relevant issues and presents results in a form
consistent with the EIA review requirements;
* allow stakeholders to ventilate their concerns about the project and
ensure that the EIA adequately addresses the relevant issues:
. establish an agreement at the outset of the EIA between the
proponent,  the DENR and the stakeholders on what issues and
alternatives to be examined;
. address issues on carrying or assimilative capacity of the
environment and identify possible legal constraints or requirements
regarding the project proposal;
* determine whether the project or undertaking requires the conduct of
environmental risk assessment; and
* determine and agree on the process of dealing with issues relating to
social acceptability.
4     Scoping also gives the project proponent an idea of prioritizing and
coordinating data sourcing to avoid work and data overlaps. It is also
during this stage that the additional costs to be borne by the proponent
relative to the review process are discussed and estimated.
5.    Before starting the scoping session, the project proponent should
prepare the stakeholders so that they will be able to participate in the
discussions and share their views, ideas, and perceptions on the likely
environmental impacts and community issues that could result from the
project. Feedback of the community is critical in scoping. It is to the
proponent's advantage that a broad segment of the stakeholders be
represented in the scoping session to capture at this early stage the
diversity of local concerns and socio-political dynamics. The values and
benefits of public participation in scoping are:
to identify potential legitimate stakeholders of the project; and
to determine or establish preliminary issues and concerns of the local
community
helps to identify and address concerns of affected groups
focuses planning on valid issues of concern
provides alternatives for consideration in planning
provides further sources of expertise
FaFZ&oFnon-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



reduces level of misinformation and distrust
define parameters/methods for conflicts resolution
improves decision making
promotes social acceptability of the project
The preparation basically involves awareness building about the project
or program in terms of its goals, rationale, objectives, components and
activities by means of public information campaigns, barangay fora and
consultations, informal dialogues with community leaders, and others. It
aims to inform and consult the concerned public about their
participation, role and responsibilities in the proposed program or project.
In the context of the EIA process, social preparation is advisable prior to
the conduct of actual scoping, especially in cases when the project is
controversial, large-scale, covering a huge area and will cause significant
environmental impacts, if not properly mitigated. The purpose of such an
activity is:
. to avoid having a misinformed public or wrong public perception
about the project;
* to identify potential legitimate stakeholders of the project; and
* to determine or establish preliminary issues and concerns of the local
community
6.   Information about the project can be disseminated through the following:
3  Conduct information campaign to let people know about the project,
the proponent, the scoping process and the expected outputs. The
communication expert leads in the design and delivery of the
information education program.
.  Information dissemination program may consist of field visits to the
project site, meetings with traditional and political leaders, informal
dialogues with community members and community meetings or
"talakayang barangay".
* Actual visits should be complemented with a selection of information
and education campaign materials such as film or video showing,
printed media or local radio. Other forms of information dissemination
include streamers, exhibits and leaflets/flyers.
Information materials and activities should focus on:
a general description of the environment of the project area
need for project
%4_nnon-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



* project goals and objectives
* project description
* potential costs and benefits of the project
. environmental and social concerns (to be validated by the
stakeholders)
* the importance of EIA process, particularly the scoping process
7.   The proponent initiates and organizes the scoping process in coordination
with DENR. Scoping sessions should be by invitation only and not open
to_the public to maintain order and focus. However, the following should
be invited:
a. at least one from the selected members of the EIARC
b. project proponents
c. EIS preparer
d. representative of the concerned LGUs (province, municipality(ies),
barangay(s))
e. representative of the concerned NGA, if necessary
f. DENR representatives from the EMB or Regional Offices
g. representatives of affected communities/people's organizations and
other stakeholders. Stakeholders are persons or groups who may be
significantly affected by the project or undertaking, strongly or
slightly, directly or indirectly. They may include:
h. persons living within the identified impact (direct and secondary)
area;
i. persons living within the boundaries of the impact area;
j. persons with properties in the impact area;
k. organized interest groups (NGOs and POs) operating in the impact
area;
1. industry representatives in the impact area;
m. local government units (LGUs);
n. people's organizations (on site/off site influence area);
o. indigenous cultural communities (ICCs) in the impact area;
p. local institutions (church, school) in the area
q. concerned national agencies i.e., HLURB, DOE, DOT, DTI, LWUA,
PAWB, etc.
8.    The EIS preparer identifies the stakeholders by:
a. Establishing or delineating the core or primary impact zone of the
project as well as the secondary impact zone or influence area.
FaSge*non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



b. Identifying the sectors and communities that will be affected by the
project within these zones.
c. Consulting with the concerned LGU (from the barangay to the
municipal level) and NGA if they have any knowledge of other
stakeholders within the project area.
d. Interviewing key informants, e.g. local NGOs and POs operating
within the area in identifying the stakeholders.
9.   Individuals, groups or organizations whether in favor or opposed but not
affected by the project not considered stakeholders. The proponent is
not obliged to invite them to the scoping session although they may
participate in the public consultations and public hearing.
10.   Efforts will be exerted to have a balance representation of women and
men and to know  external linkages of stakeholders  to determine
influences.
11.   Local communities and other groups of stakeholders will select their
representatives prior to the formal scoping session. The assumption
here is that during the social preparation process, information and
discussions among affected stakeholders have already been conducted
and that they have chosen their official representative in the EIA
process. The list of official or authorized representatives will have to be
completed and obtained by the preparer during the social preparation
process.
12.   There can be several scoping sessions depending on the number and
type of stakeholders and agencies to be affected and the projected
magnitude of effects and impacts of the project.
13.   The proponent and the preparer need to:
a.    prepare the venue for the session
b.   send invitation and make confirmation of attendance of the
stakeholders
c.    provide for meals
d.    provide for workshop materials (pens, paper, map of the area,
etc.)
14.   Tasking for different activities should be clarified at the start.  This
includes:
non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



a.    Facilitator or moderator can be from  EIARC, EIA team  or an
independent and objective professional facilitator. S/he is
expected to provide synthesis of the proceedings.
b.    Process documentor can be from the commissioned EIA preparer.
c.    Administrative support for food. preparation of the venue and
needed equipment by the proponent
e.    Proponent provides for transportation
f.    EIA preparer drafts scoping report
15.   Ideally, there should only be one scoping session, preferably in the
project site, where all identified participants can effectively interact and
share their views, knowiedge and ideas. However, if there are conflict
in schedules and cost considerations, several scoping sessions may be
arranged. Scoping sessions can take the form of the following:
* Community meetings
This is held in the project site and in the following this sequence:
Introduction of the Participants
Objectives of the Session
Setting and Leveling of Expectations of the Participants
Orientation on the Objectives and Importance of EIA and Scoping
Presentation of the Project Description
Statement of Stakeholders Concerns and Issues
Discussion of Participation/Agreements
Synthesis of the Proceedings/Agreements
* Technical meetings
A meeting of outside experts summoned by the DENR and Regional
Offices to clarify technical issues related to the project for the benefit of
all concerned. This meeting may be opened to the public. Results of
this type of meeting should be made available to the public following the
scoping guidelines.
* Public meetings
Meeting of this type represents the consensus of all affected parties.
The proponent receives oral and written inquiries from groups who wish
to express their stand, apprehensions and concerns. These meetings
are held in the project site.
Fate* non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



16.  All scoping sessions should be properly documented and duly signed by
the  proponent,  preparer,  DENR   representative,  LGU.  EIARC
representative and representative of stakeholders.
17.   Points of discussion during the scoping session include environmental
concerns as well as public participation in the EIS process.
In terms of environmental concerns, a location map, project site map
and site development map on a maximum scale of 1:50,000 should be
provided by the proponent as a reference guide in the discussion of the
following areas:
* Spatial boundaries
> Hydrological boundaries
> Ecological boundaries
> Political boundaries
Cultural boundaries
* Temporal
7 Pre- construction stage
C Construction
= Operation and maintenance
=> Decommissioning and abandonment
* Impact Areas
7> Direct impact areas
=. Secondary impact area
> Regional impact area
In the area of public participation, the group discuss and agree on the
manner and  mechanics by which  the various stakeholders  will
participate in the EIA process. There are no set rules or procedures for
this. The stakeholder's participation can range from just being an
observer to active participation in all stages of the EIS preparation.
18.  The basic steps in the scoping process are:
Step 1.    The  proponent makes  his  official written  communication
addressed to RED of DENR about his intention to do a scoping
meeting. He should attach a copy of the notice previously given
non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



by the RED regarding the necessity of conducting an EIA and a
new scoping session.
Step 2.    Within 5 days of the receipt of the letter, the DENR-RO will:
identify prospective members of the EIARC who can attend the
meeting; inform the proponent that they can initiate the social
preparation process of stakeholders for the scheduled scoping
sessions and the scoping will be.
Step 3.    If necessary, the proponent commissions a communications
expert for the design and delivery of information and education
strategies (with advice from the EIA preparers).
Step 4.    The proponent invites the critical stakeholders of the project to
the scheduled scoping meeting. The proponent  prepares the
project description and a matrix (see Appendix G for sample
format) of possible issues and concerns of the project based on
available scoping guidelines, together with the potential impacts
and risks to be considered. During the scoping, this is validated
along with other concerns/issues raised by the stakeholders. The
matrix of impacts/issues will be used as reference in grading
(significant, minor, and insignificant) the magnitude and level of
significance of each impact and issue.
Step 5.    A second level scoping meeting can be conducted based on the
results of the first session. This can be done in cases when some
of the major stakeholders are not able to attend the first session
or when additional stakeholders surface which were not initially
identified and invited to the first scoping session.
Step 6.    The proponent, through the preparer, submits a formal scoping
report to DENR-RO based on what transpired in the scoping
process.
Step 7.    DENR-RO  reviews  the  scoping  report  in  terms  of  the
appropriateness of the process, accuracy and completeness of
interpretations of results.
After reviewing, DENR-RO informs the proponent in writing of any
necessary revisions or upon approval. Once approved by the
DENR-RO, the scoping report will be signed by DENR-RO, the
preparer, proponent, EIARC representative and a representative of
non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



the stakeholders.  This serves as the AGREED SCOPE and
becomes the basis for the conduct and review of the EIS.
The stakeholders and/or the local EIA counterpart team (if formed)
are furnished copies of the Final Scoping Report written in their
local dialect, if required.
In case changes in the agreed scope are necessary during the
course of the study, the proponent, through the preparer, informs
DENR-RO in writing about an ADJUSTMENT OF SCOPE.
19.  The scoping report forms part of the final EIS and serves as the primary
reference of the EiA and the review process. The Scoping Report should
generally follow the outline format as provided below:
1.   Project Name or Title
2.   Name and Address of Proponent
3.   Project Description
A.   Goals and Objectives
B.   Rationale
C.   Project Area and Location
D.   Project Components
E.   Project Activities
e Pre-Construction period
* Construction period
3 Operations and maintenance period
a Abandonment phase
4.   Scoping of Issues and Impacts (attach Matrix)
A.  Pre-Construction, Construction, Operation, Maintenance,
& Abandonment
Physico-Chemical Environment
Biological Environment
Socio-Economic Environment
5.   Stakeholders Issues and Concerns
6.   Agreed Upon Scope
7.   Summary of Proceedings
non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



Annexes:
A.   Attendance Sheet with signatures for all scoping meetings
B.   Process  Documentation   of  meetings,  workshops  and
consultations made
C.   Pictures
D.   Maps
Signed:
PROPONENT
EIA PREPARER (Team Leader)
DENR Representative
EIARC Representative
Stakeholder Representative
CONDUCT OF EIA
1.   After the scoping activity, the proponent proceeds to prepare and
submit an EIS that conforms to the agreed-upon scope of work as
contained in the scoping report.
2.   The following are the major steps in the preparation of an EIS:
a.   Team Mobilization and Planning.
EIS preparation always involves a number of speciaiists to identify
data needs and analyze the multitude of potential impacts of the
proposed project. Based on the agreed scope of work, the team
proceeds to plan out the activities that need to be undertaken and
arrange the scheduling according to the submitted work program. The
team identifies the sources of secondary data. Table F.1 contains a list
of secondary data and information sources.
FaSgeafnon-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



b.   Data Collection and Analysis.
It is usually costly to obtain primary data so the project proponent
should exert utmost effort to collect all available secondary data. The
EIS team should collect the secondary data sources such as ElSs and
IEEs that may have been prepared for similar or nearby projects. (EISs
and lEEs of past projects can be obtained through EMB and the DENR
regional offices.) The EIS team should also visit the relevant
government agencies to obtain current and historical data.
Then the EIS team analyzes the collected data and information and
identifies information gaps or deficiencies. The EiS team then decides
the extent of primary data collection such as sampling, testing,
surveys to supplement the collected secondary data.
Table F.1
Secondary Data/lnformation Sources
Data/linfornation                Sources *
Geography                     NAMRIA, HLURB, MGB, DENR,
NEDA
Geology and Geomorphology     MGB, PHIVOLCS, PAGASA,
Department of Geology UP
Diliman, NAMRIA, BSWM, NIGS
Topography, Slope (Survey     DENR
Report)
Aspect and Elevation          NAMRIA, BSWM, HLURB, EMB.
LLDA, UPLB, DOH, DENR
Regional Offices, Bureau of
Research and Laboratories/DOH,
MWSS, NWRB, LWUA, BFAR,
NIA, BCGS
Watershed Impoundments        NAMRIA, NWRB, BSWM. UPLB
Flood Risk/Flood Prone        BSWM, NWRB, DPWH, ICLARM,
PAG-ASA
Prevailing Tidal Fluctuations  NAMRIA, BCGS, universities and
colleges, UPMSI
Soil                          UPLB, other universities and
colleges, BSWM, FMB, NAMRIA,
HLURB
non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



Data/lInformation                  Sources *
Drainage, Tributary Patterns and   NWRB, NAMRIA, BSWM, DENR
Catchment Areas
Land Classification and        BAS, DENR, BSWM
Regulatory Status                       .
Land Use/Cover                 LMB, HLURB, NAMRIA, FMB,
BSWM
Water Use and Regulation        HLURB, EMB, DOH, NWRB,
NAMRIA, NIA, BCGS, LWUA
Surface Water/Stream           NWRB, EMB
Conditions
Location and Extent/Size of    BFAR, NAMRIA, DENR,
Marine and Coastal Resources    PCAMRD, UPMSI
General Groundwater Information  NWRB, NAMRIA, BSWM, EMB,
LWUA, DPWH
Natural Disasters              NDCC, PHIVOLCS, PAGASA,
NAMRIA, BSWM, DPWH
Location and Extent/Size of    NWRB, NIA, NAMRIA, ICLARM,
Surface Freshwater Resources    PCARRD
Mineral Resources and Reserves   MGB, mining companies,
NAMRIA, HLURB
Climate                        PAGASA, universities and
colleges, NAMRIA, BSWM
Air Quality                    DENR Regional Office, LLDA,
EMB, private industries, HLURB
Vegetation/Flora               PAWB, NM, FMB, UPLB,
PCARRD, NAMRIA, DENR,
BSWM, DA
Fauna                          PAWB, academic and research
institutions, BFAR, NM,
NAMRIA, DENR, PCARRD, UPLB
Bacteria and Fungi             Universities and colleges, DOH,
BPI, BAI, DA, DENR, FMB
Demography                     HLURB, NSO, DSWD, LGU,
DOH, NAMRIA
Livelihood and Income Livelihood  BAS, LGU, NSO, DENR, BFAR,
Sources                        NAMRIA, BSWM, DECS, DPWH,
TLRC
Tourism and Recreation         DOT, LGU, PAWB, HLURB
Dumpsite, Sewerage Systems,    DENR Regional Office, EMB,
Waste Water Treatment Systems  MWSS, DPWH
Meat Market and Slaughterhouse  DILG, LGU, BAI, DOH
%e* no2n-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



Data/information                  Sources *
Cooperative and Livelihood    DA, NIA, NGOs, TLRC, CDA
Tribal/Ethnic Groups          ONCC, OSCC, OMA, universities
and colleges, research
institutions, NM, NAMRIA, FMB,
UPLB, Ateneo Institute for
Philippine Culture, De La Salle
University Research Center,
DENR, NGOs
Religious Groups              NSO
Languages and Dialects        NSO
Ancestral Domain               DENR, DAR, NAMRIA, ONCC,
OSCC, OMA, PAFID
History and Archaeology       NM, universities and colleges,
LGUs
Political Units                DILG, NAMRIA, NSO, LBM,
DPWH, LGU, HLURB, BSWM
Citizen Participation         DILG, NGOs, COMELEC, BSWM,
LGU
Legal Institutional Jurisdiction of  DENR, DA, DILG, DOT, DND,
Natural Resources             NAMRIA, PAWB, FMB, HLURB,
BSWM
Local Legislation on Environment  DENR
and Resources
General Information           NEDA, EMB, NAMRIA
* See the list of abbreviations for the full names of these sources.
c.   Impact Assessment and Mitigation/Enhancement.
The third step is impact identification, assessment and analyses. This
begins with the synthesis, reduction and evaluation of the primary and
secondary data. The EIS team documents data sources to ensure
credibility of the data.
Based on the proposed project type and location, selected members of
the EIS team will identify and screen several sites to determine their
adaptability and acceptability. Based on the screening, the team may
recommend a number of options or alternatives to the proponent. This
is the reason why the EIA should be done together with the feasibility
study.
non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



The various specialists conduct impact assessments. There are well-
accepted methods for assessing and predicting each type of impact.
For example, perception surveys are commonly used to determine
public values and the social acceptability of a proposed project. Other
methods include social cost-benefit analysis.
The team then identifies the mitigation measures that will eliminate
the negative impacts or reduce them to an acceptable level. If
warranted, measures to enhance positive impacts may be proposed.
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT
1.   An environmental risk assessment (ERA) is a process of analyzing and
describing the risks associated with a project or activity to
ecosystems, human health and welfare. The assessment includes
risks arising from or transmitted through the natural environment. An
ERA is not an entirely separate assessment but deals with the further
analysis of hazards identified in the EIA. It builds upon the EIA such
that risks are impacts where the likelihood of occurrence and
magnitude of consequences are uncertain and probably great.
2.   The decision of whether to include an ERA in the EIS is normally
discussed and agreed upon during the scoping activity. However, it
may also be decided later as a result of new findings during the
assessment. An EIA will include the ERA if public risk is perceived to
be significant for a particular project or undertaking.
3.   Hazards that may be encountered in MRDP projects may include:
mechanical equipment, the failure of which could endanger life &
property;
structural failure (e.g. dam, bridge, etc.);
natural disasters that exacerbate technological hazards; and
ecosystem damage (e.g. siltation, soil erosion).
4.   An ERA is required in cases where there is perceived danger but such
danger is difficult to assess or quantify because of the lack knowledge
or information such as the following:
the rate and amount of potential releases of hazardous chemicals;
accidental fires and explosions;
transport and fate of pollutants in the environment;
dispersion mechanisms and rates of dilution;
Fa4%e non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



exposure to toxics - who, how many, how much:
dose-response predictions based on animal tests;
failure rates of mechanical equipment or structures:
human behavior, e.g. errors by workers, public reaction:
natural hazards, e.g. earthquake, tsunami, typhoon; and
alteration in drainage patterns, water table, vegetation, microclimate,
etc.
5.   EMB list the following projects as probably requiring an ERA.
1.   cement plants
2.   dams and reservoir
3.   chemical, fertilizer plants
4.   handling, transport and disposal of hazardous materials
5.   bridges and highways
6.   iron and steel mills
7.   petroleum production and refining
8.   ports and harbors
9.   biotechnology laboratories or research facilities
10.  power plants, i.e. thermal plants such as coal-fired, nuclear,
diesel and gas; hydroelectric
1 1.  toxic waste management
12.  disease control and research facilities
13.  pulp and paper mills
14.  mining
15.  metal finishing
16.  pesticide manufacturing
1 7.  petrochemicals
1 8.  railroad
1 9.  smelting plants
20.  textile manufacturing
Note that the list covers a wide range of projects such that the decision to
include an ERA or not should only be made after an initial assessment of the
project. Projects that seem to be safe may still pose hazards because of its
location.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
1.   The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is formulated to address
the environmental impacts identified in the Environmental Impact
Assessment.
% ~rnon-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



2.   The EMP should at least contain the following:
. project impacts  and  their corresponding  mitigation  and/or
enhancement measures
* cost estimate of equipment, materials, manpower needed to
implement the measures
. the institution or organization responsible in implementing the
measures
. the type of agreements or guarantees that will ensure the
realization of such programs
* a monitoring plan
3.   If an ERA is included in the assessment, a corresponding Risk
Management Program must be incorporated in the Environmental
Management Plan.
4.   The monitoring plan should include the following information per
project activity for each project phase:
* parameters of the affected ecological condition to be monitored;
* location of monitoring activity;
* frequency of monitoring activity;
* cost of monitoring activity; and
* implementing or responsible group
5.   Any signed Memorandum of Understanding or Agreements (MOA) for
the implementation of proposed mitigation/enhancement measures
including monitoring plan should be attached as part of the EMP.
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND GUARANTEE FUND
1.   When required, proposals for the establishment of an Environmental
Monitoring and Guarantee Fund should be incorporated in the Final
EIS.
2.   The proposal should define the mechanics for the use of the Funds
such as who will manage the fund, the disbursement criteria and
procedures, the criteria  on who can have access to the funds,
accountability measures and changes or adjustments in the amount of
the Funds. among others.
%e* Ino6n-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



EIS WRITING AND SUBMISSION
1.   The EIS should conform, more or less, to the EIS outline shown below.
The content of the EIS is subject to the agreed scope and the DENR-
EMB prescribed procedural and substantive requirements (for details,
see Appendices N and 0) as outlined below:
I .   Table of Contents
2.   Executive Summary
A.   Brief Project Description
B.   Brief Description of Methodology - scope and duration
C.   Brief Description of Project Setting
D.   Summary Scoping Report
E.   Summary Matrix of Major Impacts, Mitigation Measures
and Environmental Management Plan (Appendix G)
F.   Summary  Matrix  of Environmental Monitoring  Plan
(Appendix K)
G.   Summary  Presentation  of the  EIA  Process/Process
Documentation
3.   Project Description
A.   Basic Project Information
B.   Project Location
C.   Project Rationale
D.   Alternatives
E.   Description of Project Phases
Pre-Construction/Operational Phase
Construction Phase
Operational Phase
Abandonment Phase
4.   Baseline Environmental Conditions
A.   Land
B.   Water
C.   Air
D.   People
5.   Impact Assessment and Mitigation
A.   Impact Identification
B.   Impact Prediction and Evaluation
C.   Future Environmental Conditions without the Project
D.   Future Environmental Conditions with the Project
E.   Unavoidable and Residual Impacts
Fa%48Fnon-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



6.   Environmental Management Plan
A.   Mitigation/Enhancement Measures/Plan (impacts/risks)
Construction Contractor's Environmental Program
Social             Development                Program
(resettlement/relocation/livelihood)
Contingency Response Plan
Abandonment Plan
B.   Environmental Monitoring Action Plan
C.   Institutional Plan
D.   Information Education Communication Plan
E.   Cost Estimate/Viability
7.   Proposal for an Environmental Monitoring and Guarantee Fund,
if required
Attachments or Annexes
List of EIS Preparers with specified field of expertise
Original Sworn Accountability Statement of Key EIS Consultants
(Appendix H)
Original Sworn Accountability Statement of Proponent (Appendix I)
Bibliography/References
Photos or plates of proposed project site, impact areas and affected
areas and communities
Process Documentation Report
Summary of Proof of Social Acceptability
Maps of the following scale, among many other maps:
> national - 1:250,000
> regional - 1:100,000
> provincial - 1:50,000
> land use map - 1:50,000
> vicinity/location map - 1:10,000 showing project location and
political boundaries, delineation of primary and secondary impact
area
> site develop ment map - 1: 1 0, 0 0 0
2.   The proponent submits at least ten (10) copies of the EIS and a
complete electronic file in computer diskettes to the DENR-RO for
review.  DENR-RO may require the proponent to submit additional
FaFteofnon-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



copies as necessary. In addition, the proponent furnishes the following
offices with a copy of the EIS as required under the DAO:
Office of the Undersecretary for the Environment and Programs
Development;
Environmental Management Bureau
Offices of the PENRO and CENRO
Office of the Mayor where the project is located
The proponent also submits to EMB, along with the hard copy reports,
one set of a complete electronic file of the EIS in computer diskettes.
The following are required for the computer file:
file to be copied in 3.5 high density diskettes formatted in DOS
Version 5.0 or higher or Window-based and readable using IBM or
equivalent compatible PCs;
* a written listing of filenames and their contents and the computer
software/versions used for word processing (such as Word Perfect
Version 3  or Microsoft Word version 3) and for quantitative
analyses/tables (such as Lotus 123 release 3, Excel or Quattro
Pro).
THE EIA REVIEW PROCESS
1.   The EIA Review Process is a critical component of the EIA process
since this is the activity upon which the decision to grant or deny the
issuance of an ECC to a particular project, is determined.
2.   DENR-RO shall organize the EIA Review  Committee (EIARC) by
appointing the members from their ranks or may hire professional
reviewers to assist them. They may also engage the help of EMB in
which case they will pass on the EMB the responsibility of reviewing
the EIS.
3.   The review process involves the following steps.
A.   Procedural Review
a.   Upon receipt of the EIS documents, DENR-RO immediately determines
its completeness and order of presentation of information using the
procedural review criteria set forth in Form 1 (see Appendix N).
;igeaf non-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



b.   If the EIS documents are complete and   comply with all the
requirements prescribed in the checklist, they are formally accepted
and are then scheduled for the substantive review by the EIARC. The
proponent is notified of the acceptance by furnishing him a copy of
the procedural form duly signed by the DENR-RO Receiving Officer.
c.   If they are incomplete the EIS documents (except for the Master and
File Copies) are returned to the proponent for revision and/or addition
of the missing requirement. The reason for non-acceptance is stated in
writing at the appropriate place in the form.
B.   SUBSTANTIVE REVIEW
1.   DENR-RO convenes the EIARC within 15 days of the submission of
the EIS and gives each member a copy of the EIS. The EIARC includes
as members those who were involved in the scoping process.
2.   Each review  committee member go over the submitted EIS and
evaluate it based on the scoping report and established EIS review
criteria (see Appendices N and 0) in terms of both the procedural and
substantive content.
The Committee measures the quality of an EIS in terms of the
following rating categories:
- completeness of information - the document should provide the
required level of detail in accordance with the information identified
in the scoping matrix or report.
* clarity of presentation - the document should be easily understood
by the reviewers and comprehensible for decision-making.
* appropriateness - this will be measured in terms of conformance of
the EiS document to technical standards and/or mechanisms of
implementation.
* accuracy and precision in information/assessment - this will be
gauged in terms of the adherence of the EIS document to the
standard method of data gathering, modeling and analysis selected
and mutually agreed on during the scoping session.
%t fgon-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



degree of consistency - the document should be entirely consistent
in  terms  of  its  findings,  assessment  or  analysis  and
recommendations such that no statement in the EIS will contradict
another statement within the study.
Then the Review Committee convenes (with a quorum) and discusses
each member's findings and comments on the EIS.
3.   The EIARC invites the proponent and preparer to a meeting to clarify
issues/questions and provide additional information. The EIARC
members present all their comments and questions during this meeting
and endeavor to resolve all pending issues relative to the EIS report
submitted.  During this meeting, the EIARC informs the proponent if
there is a need to conduct a site visit and/or a public hearing, if none
has been carried out yet.
A visit to the project site should be conducted by the EIARC under the
following conditions:
* when none of the EIARC members is familiar with the site;
* when one or more EIARC member has a particular concern or
interest
that he or she wants to investigate; or
* When one or more EIARC member has a particular concern or
issues that he or she wants to verify or validate.
4.   Within 15 days from the completion of the review, the EIARC submits
an EIARC report to the DENR Regional Executive Director. The report
shall contain the results of the review/evaluation and the committee's
recommendation with respect to the issuance or non-issuance of an
ECC. The EIARC Chairman, on behalf of and in concurrence with the
rest of the committee members, signs the report.
At the minimum, the EIARC report should contain the following information:
a. a brief project description;
b. summary of significant project impacts and mitigation/enhancement
measures;
c. summary of key issues/concerns plus the proponent's response to issues
raised;
d. a review summary based on the technical and substantive review criteria;
e. report on compliance with social acceptability requirements;
;ab no n-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



f. over-all findings of the review or evaluation; and
g. recommendations
ISSUANCE OF THE ECC
1.   Within 15 days from receipt of the EIARC report, the DENR Regional
Executive Director shall make his or her own recommendations to the
Office of the Secretary for final decision. A copy of the report,
together with other pertinent documents, shall be attached to the
recommendation.
2.   Within 15 days from  receipt of the recommendation of the DENR
Regional Executive Director, the DENR Secretary shall either grant or
deny the issuance of an ECC. The ECC shall contain all the conditions
and provisions that have to be met by the proponent, a violation of
which will result to the cancellation of the ECC.
The conditions that can be attached to an ECC include but are not
limited to:
* scope of the operations (limitations)
* construction/installation of an adequate waste treatment facility
* specific mitigating measures
* emissions/discharges conforming with DENR standards
* monitoring measures
* safety measures including appropriate emergency response and
contingency plans
* additional environmental studies (if necessary)
* employment preference for local residents
* demonstration of social acceptability
* all permits secured before beginning operation
* applicability of the ECC in case of transfer of ownership.
3.   The non-issuance of ECC  does not prevent a proponent from
submitting another EIS on the same project that now incorporates or
adopts the recommendations of DENR-RO. However, a proponent,
whose EIS was denied an ECC three (3) times, shall no longer qualify
to submit an EIS on the same project or undertaking.
FaS4 gnn-Environmentally Critical Projects Located in Environmentally Critical Areas



. ~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i
APPENDIX G
SAMPLE MATRIX OF POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (SEls) OF A PORT PROJECT
Activities/Sources of Impacts
Construction Phase                         Operation Phase
1)                                 0          0 M r  _-
0 D                                   m 0       Lo    0
Cu  -?'(
0                                                            Cu
3)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U Sufc                                               r-trhdolg n     
0)~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Physical ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sufc wae qult    _                 
5oC) Toporh  a
Ecoogca0 7)  a f                                                                 E
ci                     eQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i CL4 
9  Land use patterns  *  *   +-*    _                + 
i 0  T6 _             *+*
.2       o
11~~~~~~~~ C ) Wate supl                     _0 *                                                                    E _  *_
:3   8  ~     .Cu                                                         0~f    5
_t                                                C   'a            .2 -_  _  _  .  .
.~~    0)02                          C  ~~~~~ 2w              .
14)  Cudustrial pollutin                                  0o  +   +  O                       0
Environmental Atibut resoures                              C_                       C*   _    *  *    _    *                                  U  
___      16) Fisheries__ _____ *. +,   0   n 0~ _ __                                       _ _ *    a +          _r  ~
1) Meteorology
2) Air quality                                                      +    +                    o O
3) Surface waler hydrology and                                  s _
Physical       surface water quality____
Resource    4) Oceanography and sea water quality                      6 0              0                         0                            0      0
5) Topography and soils                               0 *                 0 *
6) Noise                                              0   0   01 +    0+ + + +
Ecological   7) Terrestral flora and fauna                                            S          S
Resources   8) Marine/estuarine flora and fauna                   0   00                                                                       0      0
9) Land use patterns                                  0   +   0           0                        +
) Transportation                                                     0           +               . 
11) Water supply                                                        0 +
Human      12) Power usage                                        0   0   0   0    0    +                 +
Use Values  13) Housing                                                                     +
14) Industrial pollution                                            0                          +   +000
15) Mineral resources                                                       
16) Fisheries                                          S   S   +                     *   +
17) Shippi'ng                                              0                         S   S
18) Socio-economics                          *         *   .         + .          +                +
Quality of   19) Public health                                             0   +    +    *            )0                   +                   *      *
Life Values  20) Aesthetics, recreation and tourism                        0   0)    S                )        0                       
21) Cultural, historic and archeologics       +   S0       0 *
_____ _____  aspects
major      - I 
minor      - +
negligible  -   0



APPENDIX H
ACCOUNTABILITY STATEMENT OF EIA PREPARERS
This is to certify that all the data or informaton contained in the enclosed Initial
Environment Examination (IEE) or Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) are true to the
best of our know4edge and informaton, and that an objectve and thorough assessment of
the project was undertaken in accordance wth the distates of reasonable and sound
judgment. Should we learn of any information which would make the enclosed IEE/EIS
inaccurate, we shall bring said information to the attention of the Environmental
Management Bureau (EMB) or the Environmental Management & Protected Areas Sector
(EMPAS) of the appropriate DENR Regional Office.
We hereby bind ourselves jointly and solidarily to answer any penalties that may be
imposed for any misrepresentations or failure to state material information in the enclosed
IEE/EIS.
In  wtness  whereof, we  hereby  set our hands  this        _    day  of
at
TEAM LEADER
Specialists in Physical Aspects:
Name                                     Signature
Specialists in Biological Aspects:
Name                                     Signature
Page H-1



Specialists in Socio-Economic Aspects:
Name                                     Signature
Other Specialists
Name                                     Signature
SUBSCRIBED   AND   SWORN   to  before  me  this              _   day  of
, affiants exhibiting to me their Community Tax Certificate (CTC),
the number, date and issuance of wMich are set forth beside their names as herein
enumerated:
Name                 CTC No.         Issued at       Issued on
Notary Public
Doc. No. ___
Page No. ___
Book No.
Series of 199____
Page H-2



APPENDIX I
ACCOUNTABILITY STATEMENT OF THE PROJECT PROPONENT
This is to certfy that all the information in the enclosed Inilial Environmental
Examinabon (IEE) or Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) are true, accurate, and
complete. Should we learn of any information which would make the enclosed
IEE/EIS inaccurate, we shall bring said information to the attenlion of the
Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) or the Environmental Management &
Protected Areas Sector (EMPAS) of the appropriate DENR Regional Office.
We hereby bind ourselves jointy and solidarily v\th the preparers for any
penaltes that may be imposed arising from any misrepresentabions or failure to state
material informabon in the enclosed IEE/EIS.
In wtness vhereof, we hereby set our hands this                 day of
at
Project Proponent
Tidle/Designation
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this       day of
affiant exhibiting to me his/her Tax Identification Number (TIN) and Community Tax Certificate
No.            issued on            at
Notary Public
Doc. No.
Page No.
Book No.
Series of 1 99
Page l-



APPENDIX J
Sample Summary Page: Environmental Management Plan
For Road Project
Project Activities   Impact Description   Mitigation (if         Cost of        Institutional    Schedule    Guarantees
(Pre-Construction,      per parameter         negative)/       Mitigation or         Plan                         (MOAs,
construction,           (Physical,       Enhancement   Enhancement                                               etc.)
Operation,        Biological, Visual,   (if positive)                                                        Contracts
Abandonment)         Socio-Economic)
Construction
Period:
1. Site Clearing    Biological:
Loss of vegetative   Cut only if          PO.1 M        Road Con-        During Road   Include such
cover               Necessary                           tractor/ MRDP   Construction   Measures  in
Environmental                  the  TOR  or
Plant new trees                     group                           scope      of
Along the road                                                      work
Socio-economic:       Provide
Negative:           relocation sites.
Some people will
Be dislocated.      In  hiring,  give
priority     to
members      of
displaced
families
Positive:
Generate short term
Employment.
APPENDIX J
Sample Environmental Management Plan                                                                           Page J-1



Sample Summary Page: Environmental Management Plan
For Road Project
Project Activities   Impact Description   Mitigation (if       Cost of        Institutional   Schedule   Guarantees
(Pre-Construction,    per parameter          negative)/      Mitigation or         Plan                      (MOAs,
construction,          (Physical,       Enhancement   Enhancement                                           etc.)
Operation,       Biological, Visual,   (if positive)                                                    Contracts
Abandonment)        Socio-Economic)
2.  Cut  and  fill,   Physical:           Construction  of     P1 2.0 M      Road            During       Include in the
grading         and    Land  slides  and  slope protection                     contractor/    constructio   TOR.
compacting             erosion  of topsoil works along the                     MRDP           n
operations.            and subsoil in the  whole stretch of                    Environmental
cut slopes.        road    network                     Group
e.g., putting of
buttress     or
retaining wall.
Socio-economic:    Give priority to
Generates   short- local people or
term employment.  stakeholders.
Biological:        Clean-up    and       P0.15 M       Quarry
3, Quarrying          Loss of vegetative  replanting                         operator     /
cover.                                                 CENRO
Physical:
Degradation    of Water spraying.
environment
aesthetics:
Dust problem.
APPENDIX J
Sample Summary Page: Environmental Management Plan
Sample Environmental Management Plan                                                                        Page J-2



For Road Project
Project Activities   Impact Description   Mitigation (if        Cost of        Institutional   Schedule   Guarantees
(Pre-Construction,      per parameter        negative)/       Mitigation or         Plan                       (MOAs,
construction,          (Physical,        Enhancement   Enhancement                                            etc.)
Operation,        Biological, Visual,   (if positive)                                                    Contracts
Abandonment)        Socio-Economic)
4. Transport of        Physical:          Water spraying         PO.01M        Road
Construction        Dust Problem.                                           contractor   /
Materials.                                                                  MRDP
Environmental
Operation:                                                                     Group.
1. Road Traffic       Physical:           Impose   speed                       Local police
Generation of dust.  limits.
Oil spills which in  Monitoring    of                   Police. MRDP
turn  contaminates  incidence.                          Environmental
bodies  of  water                                       Group
nearby.
2. Road Repairs       Erosion problems.   Immediate clean                     MRDP
up and planting
of grass cover
on spoils.
APPENDIX Jl
Sample Summary Page: Environmental Management Plan
For Water Supply Project
Sample Environmental Management Plan                                                                          Page j-3



Project Activities   Impact Description   Mitigation (if        Cost of        Institutional   Schedule   Guarantees
(Pre-Construction,      per parameter        negative)/       Mitigation or         Plan                       (MOAs,
construction,          (Physical,        Enhancement   Enhancement                                            etc.)
Operation,        Biological, Visual,   (if positive)                                                    Contracts
Abandonment)        Socio-Economic)
Construction:
1. Clearing    and    Biological:
source
protection         Loss of vegetative  Replanting    of      P0.01 M       Contractor      During
cover.             trees.                                              constructio
n.
Physical:
2. Laying of pipes.
Soil erosion.      Proper      soil      P0.01 M        Contractor
compaction.                                        During
constructio
Planting of cover                                  n.
grass after filling
trenches.
Water              Frequent                             Water  supply
Operation:              contamination.     monitoring     /                     operator.
proper                                             During
maintenance                                        operation.
Frequency
will depend
on     the
situation.
APPENDIX J2
Sample Summary Page: Environmental Management Plan
For Communal Irrigation Project
Sample Environmental Management Plan                                                                          Page J-4



Project Activities   Impact Description   Mitigation (if         Cost of        Institutional   Schedule    Guarantees
(Pre-Construction,      per parameter         negative)/       Mitigation or         Plan                        (MOAs,
construction,           (Physical,       Enhancement   Enhancement                                              etc.)
Operation,        Biological, Visual,   (if positive)                                                       Contracts
Abandonment)         Socio-Economic)
Construction:
1. Construction of    Physical:
flow    control
facilities.        Increased  turbidity  Proper
downstream,         construction
procedures.
2. Construction of    Physical:
canals
Increased Erosion,   Immediate cover      P0.01 M       Farmers         During
grass seeding on                                    construction.
embankment.
Operations:             Socio-economic:
Increased incidence  Proper               P0.02 M       Farmers         During
of diseases such as  maintenance  of                                    operation.
malaria       and  canals / frequent
sciztosomiasis.     cleaning    and
removal      of
PhysicaL:           vegetation
within the canal.
Contamination   of Training farmers                                     During
ground and surface  on the judicious                                    construction.
waters because of use of pesticides
irrigation returns.    and fertilizers.____
Sample Environmental Management Plan                                                                           Page J-5



APPENDIX K
Sample Environmental Monitoring Program
For Rural Road Project
Project Activity          Parameter               Location             Frequency           Responsibility          Cost
Construction Phase
Hydrological, biological                     Start as soon as      MRDP Environmental    P 5,000*
1. Cut and fill, grading  and oceanographic                          construction begins   Group
and soil compaction  conditions of waters                         and then monthly
around the sites:                            until construction is
completed.
*  Water quality, e.g.   *  Adjacent creeks
suspended solids         and streams
and transparency.        around the site.
Operation Phase
1. Road Traffic        .  Dust                  *  5 meters from     *  Once a quarter
the road.
*  Oil Spill            .  Along the road    .  Once a quarter
* * Note:    Monitoring should not add too much additional cost to the project. In many cases, laboratory analyses of samples may not
be necessary. For example, increase in suspended solids may be detected visually. The increase in accuracy by doing laboratory analyses
is not that critical. The same is true with dust. In a rural road, small increases in dust level may not be that critical to justify getting air
samples for analysis. A visual inspection will be enough to see if there is excessive dust to justify, say water spraying.
Environmental Monitoring Program                                                                                  Page K -



APPENDIX K
Sample Environmental Monitoring Program
For Communal Irrigation Project
Project Activity           Parameter               Location            Frequency            Responsibility           Cost
Operation phase:
1.  Contamination  of  Nitrates,  phosphates,  Shallow wells near    Once a year            MRDP  Environmental   P1 0,000.00
ground water due  pesticides.               the irrigated farms                        group, DENR-RO
to      irrigation
return.
Mosquito larvae         Irrigation canals     Once a month         Farmers organization
2.  Growth of disease
vectors        in  Snails   contaminated  Irrigation canals      Once a year           Farmers organization      See note
irrigation   canals  with cysts.                                                                                  below
such as mosquito
and         snails
(possible carrier of
sciztosomiasis
cysts)
Note:  In areas where there is no known cases of sciztosomiasis, the monitoring may be done once in two or three years specially if there
are no nearby laboratories to do the testing.
Environmental Monitoring Program                                                                                   Page K - 2



APPENDIX K
Sample Environmental Monitoring Program
For Water Supply Project (Spring Development)
Project Activity           Parameter               Location            Frequency            Responsibility           Cost
Post      Construction
Phase:
1.  Placing  vegetative  Area  or  length  of  Pipeline alignment.    Once a month until Water            system      PO.01 M
cover  (grass)  on  trench.                                       fully covered.       operator.
filled        pipe
trenches.
Water collection     Once a quarter        Water         system      PO.005 M
2.  Contamination   of  Bacteriological quality.   chamber.                                 operator.
spring source.
Water collection     Once a year           Water         system      PO.005 M
Physico-chemical        chamber.                                   operator.
characteristics such as
pH, nitrates, sulfates,
turbidity, etc.
Environmental Monitoring Program                                                                                   Page K - 3



APPENDIX L
FORM 1:   PROCEDURAL EVALUATION (SCREENING PHASE) OF IEE
PROCEDURE FOR THE PROCEDURAL EVALUATION/SCREENING
PHASE TO BE UNDERTAKEN BY DENR
1. USING FORM 1 OF THE CHECKLIST, THE SCREENING OFFICER OF DENR
SHALL ASSESS THE IEE DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED IN TERMS OF THE
FOLLOWING:
*  COMPLETENESS - THE PRESENCE OR ABSENCE OF ADEQUATE
INFORMATION
* ORDER OF PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION
2. THE SCREENING OFFICER SHALL INDICATE,_THROUGH A CHECK/TICK MARK,
UNDER THE YES/NO COLUMN,_IF THE IEE DOCUMENTS HAS COMPLIED 100%
TO THE 'MUST" REQUIREMENTS/CRITERIA:
3. IF THE IEE DOCUMENTS HAVE COMPLIED WITH ALL THE REQUIREMENTS
PRESCRIBED IN THE CHECKLIST,_WHICH MEANS YES MARKS IN ALL, IT IS
SCHEDULED FOR SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION AND REVIEW BY EMPAS.
4. IF, HOWEVER, THE PROCEDURAL EVALUATION OF THE IEE DOCUMENTS
RESULTS INTO EVEN ONE NO MARK, THEN THE DOCUMENTS ARE RETURNED TO
THE PROJECT PROPONENT FOR REVISION OR SUBMISSION OF THE MISSING
REQUIREMENT:
Procedural    Evaluation    of    IEE    During    the    Screening  Phase
Page L-_



DENR IEE REVIEW CRITERIA
FORM 1:  PROCEDURAL EVALUATION (SCREENING PHASE)
Name of Proponent         :
Address                   :
Name of Proposed Project  :                                 _
Proposed Location         :
Date of ECC Application    :
"MUST" Criteria                         Yes          No             Remarks
Communication of Results
a)   Table of Contents                                                                                 l
b)   Presentation of Executive Summary in EIS which
should include the following:                                                                     l
* brief description of the project
. brief description of the data gathering:   scope,
duration/period, team, methodology                                                             l
* brief description of the project environment (focus on
main conclusions and their basis)                                                              I
* tabulated summary and discussion of major impacts,
main mitigating measures, main components of the
Environmental Management Plan
. tabulated summary of the Environmental Monitoring
Plan
. Presentation of List of IEE Preparers with specified
field of expertise
. Submission   of  original  Sworn   Accountability
Statements of key IEE Consultants
. Submission   of  original  Sworn   Accountability
Statements of IEE Proponent
. Acknowledgement/Presentation of sources of data
c)   Summary of Proof of Social Acceptability
Procedural Evaluation of IEE                                                                Page L-2



DENR IEE REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                          Yes         No             Remarks
1.0   Project Description
1.1   Basic Project Information
Statement of the official name of the project, address,
telephone/fax number and project officer responsible/liable
for the EIS                                                                                        l
1.2   Project Location                                                                                  l
1.2.1 Identification   of  barangay,   municipality/city,
provincial and regional location of the project
1.2.2 Presentation  of maps of the following scale:
national -- 1:250,000; regional -- 1:100,000;
provincial -- 1:50,000; land use map 1:50,000;
vicinity map/location map  1:10,000; showing title,
legend,  scale,  project location  and  political
boundaries; delineation of areas of primary and
secondary impact areas                                                                       l
1.3   Project Rationale
1.4   Alternatives
1.5   Description of Project Phases
1.5.1 Pre-Operational / Construction Phase
1.5.2 Operational Phase
1.5.3 Abandonment Phase
2.0   Baseline Environmental Conditions
2.1   Land
2.2   Water
2.3   Air
2.4   People
3.0  Impact and Risk Assessment (if required)
3.1  Impact Identification                               l           l          l
3.2  Impact Prediction and Evaluation                    l_l_l
Procedural Evaluation of IEE                                                                 Page L-3



DENR IEE REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                        Yes         No             Remarks
3.3   Unavoidable and Residual Impacts (if any)        I_
4.0  Environmental Management Plan
4.1  Impacts Mitigation/Enhancement Plan
4.2   Compensation Plan
4.3   Contingency Response Plan
4.4  Environmental Monitoring Plan
4.5  Institutional Plan
Bibliography
ACTION TAKEN: (Please check to indicate corresponding action taken)
Li   IEE Document accepted
Li   IEE Document not accepted
[i minimum requirements not met
LI inadequate copies of IEE documents, additional     copies required
Li not within the jurisdiction of receiving office, please proceed to EMPAS, DENR Region
(signature over printed name)
SCREENING OFFICER
SCREENING OFFICE (DENR,     )
Procedural Evaluation of IEE                                                              Page L-4



APPENDIX M
FORM 2: SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION OF IEE BY EMPAS
The substanbve evaluabon of IEE by the EMPAS is similar to the EIARC
evaluabon of EIS. An IEE Technical Review Committee (IEETRC) is
constituted upon acceptance of the IEE documents.
The procedure for the substantive evaluation to be undertaken by the
IEETRC is as follows:
1. The IEETRC members evaluate the IEE document based on its
substantive compliance to each reviewcriterion in the checklist. The IEETRC
measures a quality iEE in terms of the following rabng categories:
* Completeness of information - The document should furnish the
required level of detail in accordance with the informaton
identified in the scoping matrix.
* Clarity of Presentation - The document should be easily
understood by the reviewers and comprehensive for decision-
making.
* Appropriateness - This is measured in terms of conformance of
the IEE document to technical standards and/or mechanisms of
implementabon.
. Accuracy and Precision in Information/Assessment - This is
gauged in terms of the adherence of the IEE document to the
standard method of data gathering, modeling, and analysis
selected and mutually agreed on during the scoping session.
The IEETRC members shall indicate through a check/bck mark, under
the pass (P)/fail (F) column of each category for rating, if the IEE
document has complied 100% with the 'MUST" requirements/criteria.
2.   To supplement #1, the IEETRC shall conduct on-the-spot inspections
of the project area in further evaluatng the project. If, on the basis of
the IEETRC's evaluation, there is need for additional requirements or
compliance, as indicated by a FAIL (F) mark in at least one criterion in
FORM 2, then the IEE document is returned to the proponent for
Substantive Evaluation of lEE
Page M-.1



revision or submission of the missing requirement; or the IEETRC may
recommend the preparation and the submission of EIS.
3.   If the IEE document has complied with all the requirements prescribed
in the checklist for a quality IEE, as indicated by PASS (P) marks in all
the criteria, then the IEETRC submits its report and recommendation
to the DENR RED through the EMPAS RTD.
Substantive Evaluation of IEE
Page M-2



FORM 2:  SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION BY EMPAS
Name of Proponent         :
Address                   :
Name of Proposed Project  :
Proposed Location         :
Date of ECC Application    :
RATING                               _
"MUST" Criteria/RATING             COMPLETE   CLEAR| APPROPRIATE   ACCURATE        Remarks
|   P  |   F    ||P:   |  F    ||    P     I    F    || P |    F
1.0   Project Description                                                                                 l
1.1   Basic Project Information
(Note: This has been handled in the
procedural evaluation and hence need not
be included in the substantive evaluation)
Statement of the official name of the
project, address, phone/fax no. & project
officer responsible/liable for the IEE            _        _          __l
1.2   Project Location                                                                 I                  I
a)   Identification     of       barangay,
municipality/city, provincial and regional
location of the project                                                          l                  I
b)   Delineation of areas of primary impact and
areas of secondary impact                                                        l                  l
c)    Modes and routes of public access to the
project
1.3   Project Rationale          l  l l
a)   Presentation  of project purpose  and
background  (reasons why  project is
proposed)                                       _         l          _           l                  l
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                  Page M-3



I___               RATING           ___
'MUST" Criteria/RATING               COMPLETE    CLEAR  | APPROPRIATE T ACCURATE        Remarks
P  | F  | P |F LP  |F  ||P  |Fl
b)    Presentation of need for the project at the
national, regional and local levels
1.4   Description of Project Phases                             _=_=
1.4.1  Pre-Operational /Construction Phase
a)    Presentation  of construction  plan  and
schedule in chart form
| b)    Presentation of total surface development
block/construction area showing graphical
scale
c)    Estimate of total area to be opened for
civil works within the block/construction
area
d)    Listing and discussion of nature of major
openings and construction activities                     ____
e)    Types of equipment to be used
f)    Source of construction materials
g)    Discussion  of support  services  and
facilities requirements and availability (e.g.
water    sources,    electricity    and
infrastructures)
h)    Estimate of total cut soil volume
i)    Total   manpower   requirement   for
construction   phase  (including   skills
requirement)
1.4.2 Operational Phase                                                                                         l
a)    Presentation of project operation schedule
and duration
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                        Page M-4



RATING          ___
"MUST" Criteria/RATING              COMPLETE |CLEAR ][ APPROPRIATE  ACCURATE        Remarks
!P|F I    PI F       P  [ F] P    F
b)    Description    of    the      process
technology/project    activities,    and
process/activity  flow   including   the
following:                             _               ___
. project capacity
* project layout
* flow diagram
. new material requirement (water, air,
electricity, supplies, chemicals, others)                            _
. materials balance
c)    Presentation and description of the waste
production scheme
d)    Manpower requirement (including skills
requirement and source)                                                                               d
1.4.3 Abandonment Phase                                      ___
a)    Listing of facilities to be abandoned         =__=
b)    Description   of   site   rehabilitation/
restoration plan
c)    Description  and  discussion  of waste
produced from abandonment activities                   _
d)    Description  and  discussion  of waste
management scheme
e)    Manpower requirement                               _
f)    Presentation of abandonment schedule
and duration                                                ___
g)    Cost of abandonment activities
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                    Page M-5



___ST" Cir/AN1RATING              ___
"MUST" Criteria/RATING        ~      COMPLETE   CLEAR   APPROPRIATE  ACCURATE         Remarks
PI F ILP IF    P  _F    P   I F
2.0   Baseline Environmental Conditions   (Land, Water, Air, People)
a)    Presentation of Study Methodology
. List of EIA Study Teamr
|  Study methods/procedures                                        ___
. List of data sources; identify whether
primary or secondary data
b)    Presentation of primary and secondary
data Matrix
c)    Description of Existing Conditions     _      _
d)    Proof of the Project's Social Acceptability  _   _        _  _            _
3.0  Impact Assessment and Mitigating Measures
3.1  Impact Identification
a)    Presentation of a matrix of the following:
.  list of sources of potential impacts per
critical process of the project
*  list of impacts arising from  #2 plus
general list of corresponding measures
ex. Reinjection, wastewater treatment
b)    Brief Discussion of the matrix presenting
the cause and effect relationships or
linkages between project processes and
impacts.
3.2  Impact Prediction and Evaluation
3.2.1  Future Environmental Conditions with the
Project                                 _  _                                         __________________
a)    Presentation of a matrix on the following: II   I    1 11                11
* Listing of potential impacts identified in
Section 3.1
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                      Page M-6



I  ___            RATING
'MUST" Criteria/RATING            [ COMPLETE | CLEAR   APPROPRIATE   ACCURATE       Remarks
|   P  | F  || _P   |  F   |   P     I    F    ||  P    |   F
. Classification of impacts as positive or
negative                                                                        _     __
. Identification of probability/frequency
of  occurrence  or  description  of
circumstances  when  impacts  are
likely/unlikely to occur                  _                _
. Assessment   of  reversibility   or
permanence of impacts
* Assessment of time scale of impacts
(long-term or short-term)                       _    _
 Assessment of the geographical extent
of impact                                 _     _
. Assessment  of impact  magnitude
(severe, moderate, insignificant)                                                                  I
b)    Discussion of the Matrix; presenting basis
and methods used in the assessment.
Predictions and assessments should be
explained    quantitatively    whenever
feasible.                              _              _ _
4.0   Environmental Management Plan
4.1  Impacts Mitigation/Enhancement Plan  ||                                             _________________
a)    Presentation of a matrix on the following: III
* list    of    mitigating/enhancement
measures       (preventive     and
contingency) ("what")
* manner of implementation ("how")           __  _   ___
. schedule of implementation ("when")              __ I    II   I_II_I_II_I_II_I
. justification of limitations in adoption
of measures
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                    Page M-7



RATING
"MUST" Criteria/RATING               COMPLETE    CLEAR   APPROPRIATE  ACCURATE        Remarks
| P  | F   | P_|_F    |   P     I    F P | F
b)    Discussion of Matrix, highlighting matrix
components,   presenting   basis  for
selection of measures and discussing
expected efficiency in resolving/mitigating
impacts.
4.2   Environmental Monitoring Action Plan
Presentation   of  an   Environmental
Monitoring Action Plan to monitor the
status of the project environment: matrix
to include the following:
. list of environmental components to be
monitored         (physico-chemical,
biological, socio-cultu ral-economic)  _   _                                     l
 list of monitoring parameters per
environmental component
* list of area/stations to be monitored
. frequency of monitoring
* list of procedures to be used  for
sampling and for laboratory analysis                 _   l                       l
l list of criteria/standards, baseline or
whatever  selected   reference  for
assessment purposes                              _                               l
l list of job positions to implement
Monitoring Action Plan               _                    l                      l
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                      Page M-8



RATING          _                            l
"MUST" Criteria/RATING            [ COMPLETE   CLEA    APPROPRIATE  ACCURATE j      Remarks
P- | F    P|F -P| F  |.P| Ft
4.3  Institutional Plan
Presentation    of   the    proponents
organizational   set-up/structure/staffing
pattern  mandated  to  implement the
Environmental   Management    Plan,
including the environmentally-related roles
and responsibilities (for implementation-of
the  Impacts  Mitigation  Program  and
Monitoring Action Plan)               l                                            l
ACTION TAKEN: (Please check to indicate corresponding action taken)
711  IEE document meets requirements: recommending issuance of ECC
FL  lIEE document does not meet requirements on the criteria listed below: recommending the preparation
and submission of EIS
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                    Page M-9



Other remarks:
(signature over printed name)
MEMBER, IEE Technical Review Committee
(signature over printed name)
MEMBER, IEE Technical Review Committee
(signature over printed name)
(signature over printed name)                          MME,IETcnclRve    omte
CHAIRMAN, IEE Technical Review Committee                        MEMBER, lEE Technical Review Committee
(signature over printed name)
MEMBER, IEE Technical Review Committee
(signature over printed name)
MEMBER, IEE Technical Review Committee
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                                Page M- 10



SCREENING OFFICE (DENR,                 )
Substantive Evaluation of IEE                                                                                                       Page M- 1 1



APPENDIX N
FORM 1:   PROCEDURAL EVALUATION (SCREENING PHASE)
PROCEDURE FOR THE PROCEDURAL EVALUATION/SCREENING
PHASE TO BE UNDERTAKEN BY DENR
1. USING FORM 1 OF THE CHECKLIST, THE SCREENING OFFICER OF DENR
SHALL ASSESS THE EIS DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED IN TERMS OF THE
FOLLOWING:
*  COMPLETENESS - THE PRESENCE OR ABSENCE OF ADEQUATE
INFORMATION
X ORDER OF PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION
2. THE SCREENING OFFICER SHALL INDICATE, THROUGH A CHECK/TICK MARK,
UNDER THE YE S/NO COLUMN, IF THE E IS DOCUMENTS HAS COMPLIED 100%
TO THE 'MUST" REQUIREMENTS/CRITERIA.
3. IF THE EIS DOCUMENTS HAVE COMPLIED WITH ALL THE REQUIREMENTS
PRESCRIBED IN THE CHECKLIST, WHICH MEANS YES MARKS IN ALL, IT IS
SCHEDULED FOR SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION AND REVIEW BY THE EIS REVIEW
COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
4. IF, HOWEVER,_THE PROCEDURAL EVALUATION OF THE EIS DOCUMENTS
RESULTS INTO EVEN ONE NO MARK, THEN THE DOCUMENTS ARE RETURNED TO
THE PROJECT PROPONENT FOR REVISION OR SUBMISSION OF THE MISSING
REQUIREMENT.
Procedural Evaluation of EIS (screening Phase)
Page N-1



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
FORM 1:  PROCEDURAL EVALUATION (SCREENING PHASE)
Name of Proponent         :
Address                   :
Name of Proposed Project  :
Proposed Location         :
Date of ECC Application    :
"MUST" Criteria                         Yes         No             Remarks
Communication of Results                                                                               l
a)   Table of Contents
b)   Presentation of Executive Summary in EIS which
should include the following:                                                                     l
. brief description of the project                                                                l
* brief description of the data gathering:   scope,
duration/period, team, methodology                                                             l
* brief description of the project environment (focus on
main conclusions and their basis)
* tabulated summary and discussion of major impacts,
main mitigating measures, main components of the
Environmental Management Plan
* tabulated summary of the Environmental Monitoring
Plan
c)   Scoping Report                                                                                    l
d)   Process Documentation Summary
e)   Summary of Proof of Social Acceptability                                                          I
1.0   Project Description                                _
1.1   Basic Project Information
Statement of the official name of the project, address,
telephone/fax number and project officer responsible/liable I                                    l
forthe EIS   n
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                                 Page N-2



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                         Yes   J    No              Remarks
1.2   Project Location                                     ._l
1.2.1 Identification   of  barangay,  municipality/city,
provincial and regional location of the project
1.2.2 Presentation  of maps of the following scale:
national -- 1:250,000; regional -- 1:100,000;
provincial -- 1:50,000; land use map 1:50,000;
vicinity map/location map  1:10,000; showing title,
legend, scale,  project location  and  political
boundaries; delineation of areas of primary and
secondary impact areas
1.3   Project Rationale
1.4   Alternatives                                                                                      l
1.5   Description of Project Phases                        ___ _ -
1.5.1 Pre-Operational / Construction Phase
1.5.2 Operational Phase
1.5.3 Abandonment Phase                                                                           l
2.0   Baseline Environmental Conditions
2.1   Land
2.2   Water
2.3   Air
2.4   People
2.5  Future Environmental Conditions without the Project                                               l
2.6  Future Environmental Conditions with the Project                                                  l
3.0  Impact and Risk Assessment (if required)
3.1  Impact Identification
3.2  Impact Prediction and Evaluation                                                                  l
3.3  Impacts Mitigation/Enhancement Plan
3.4   Unavoidable and Residual Impacts (if any)
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                                Page N-3



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                       Yes         No            Remarks
4.0  Environmental/Risk Management Plan                                                            l
4.1   Mitigation/Enhancement            Measures/Plan
(Impacts/Risks)
4.1.1 Construction Contractor's Program
4.1.2 Social Development Program
4.1.3 Contingency Response Plan
4.1.4 Abandonment Plan
4.2  Environmental Monitoring Plan
4.3  Institutional Plan
4.4  Information Education Communication Plan
4.5  Cost EstimateNiability (to be incorporated in each
Plan)
5.0  Proposal for an Environmental Monitoring and
Guarantee Fund
Bibliography
Attachments or Annexes:
a)   Presentation of List of EIS Preparers with specified
field of expertise
b)   Submission   of  original  Sworn  Accountability
Statements of key EIS Consultants
c)   Submission   of  original  Sworn  Accountability
Statements of EIS Proponent
d)   Summary of proof of social acceptability
* Risk Management Plan submitted
* Environment Management and Monitoring Plan
submitted
* Municipal resolution endorsing the project
* Barangay resolution endorsing the project
. Endorsement letter of local NGOs
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                            Page N-4



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                         J   Yes           No               Remarks
.  Endorsement letter of local POs
.  Signed contract between proponent and contractor(s)
incorporating   the   mitigation   and   enhancement
measures in the scope of work
.  Process Documentation Report or minutes of public
consultations
.  Process Documentation or Transcript of the Public
Hearing
*  Brief Description of Role of Stakeholders in EIA Study                                                   l
.  MOA on Multi-partite monitoring team                                                                     l
. Process Documentation Report of Conflict Resolution
Processes                                            l
. MOA on the Environmental Guarantee and Monitoring
Fund
e)    Scoping Report
f)    Other Maps (scale of 1:60,000) and Figures (where
applicable)'
Land and Project-Related Maps
.  Topographic Map
.  Physical Plan Map
.  Site Development Map showing project site lay-out
* Process Flow Chart
*  Drainage Map
.  Slope Analysis Map
* Elevation Map
.  Soils and Land Management Unit Map
To be able to determine what particular annexes (in the form of maps, tables, figures, studies, lab results, etc.) should be required for
certain types of projects, the Receiving Staff should be someone who is familiar with the type of assessment requirements for each type
of project. S/he should know the right questions to ask from the proponent or preparer given the type of project.
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                                          Page N-5



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                          Yes         No              Remarks        ]
. Soil Fertility Map
*  Land Use and Vegetation Map
*  Existing and Projected Soil Erosion Map
.  Existing and Projected Sheet Erosion Map
* Potential Sedimentation Source Map
.  Laboratory Results of Soil Sample Analysis
Hazard and Geologic-Related Maps, Figures and other
Annexes
.  Regional Geological Map
*  General Geologic Map                                                                             l
*  Bathymetric and Morphostructural Map                                            _
. Geomorphological Map                                                                              l
.  Bottom Cover Map                                                                                 I
. Earthquake Epicentral Distribution Map
. g factor Contour Map for Rocks
* g factor Contour Map for Medium Soils
.  Hazard Zonation Maps
.  Seismicity Maps
.  Lava Flow Risk Map                                                                               I
* Tsunami Risk Map
.  Landslide Risk Map
.  Differential Settling Hazard Map
. Flood Frequency and Rating Curves
* Sequence Stratigraphic Column of Rock Units
* Geological Cross-Sections                  ____l
*  Natural Hazard Map
.  Foundation Hazard Map
*  Detailed Bathymetric Map                                                                         I
.  Results of Petrographic and Mineragraphic Analyses
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                                  Page N-6



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                          Yes         No             Remarks
* Results of Geochemical Analyses of Rock Samples                                                  I
*_Paleontological Age Dating Results for Rock Samples                                             I
* Grain Size Distribution Analysis
Meteorologic and Oceanographic Maps, Figures and
Tables
. Monthly Average Rainfall of the Area
* Climatological Normals
I   Climatological Extremes                                                                        I
. Wind Rose Diagrams                                                                              l
. Net Evaporation Rates
* Frequency of Tropical Cyclones
I   Predicted Tides                                                                               I
* 24-Hour Tidal Cycles                                                                            |
. Bathymetry and Underwater Topography
* Salinity and Temperature Regimes and Distribution
. Rainfall Means, Standard Deviation and Amount for a
Monthly  Period  equalled  or exceeded  at given
probability levels
. Characteristics of the Surface Current Flowing                                                  I
* Surface Current System
Hydrologic Maps, Figures and Tables
. Regional Hydrogeologic Map
. Mean Monthly Streamflow                                                                         l
* Streamflow Measurements
. Mean Monthly Flow Data
* Flood Peaks and Volumes
* Summary of Spring and Well Inventory                                                            l
. Water Supply and Demand Projections
* Flow Duration Analysis                                            _
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                                 Page N-7



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                           Yes          No              Remarks
* Stormwater Flow Estimates
. Rainfall-lntensity-Duration-Frequency Data
Water Quality Assessment
.  Physico-Chemical Characteristics of Wells and Springs
r   Physico-Chemical Characteristics of Coastal Waters
* Water Quality of Surface Waters
* Water Quality of Coastal Waters
L   Bacteriological Characteristics of Wells and Springs
 Bacteriological Characteristics of Inland Surface
Waters
*  Bacteriological Characteristics of Coastal Waters
. Laboratory Analysis Results of Physico-Chemical
Examination
|   Laboratory Analysis Results of Organic and Inorganic
Non-Metallic Constituents
.  Laboratory Analysis Results of Metallic Components
.  Laboratory Results of Bacteriological Analyses
. Population of Planktonic and Benthic Algae
. Benthic Fauna Population or Density of Benthic
Organisms
* Sampling Site Map
Air/Noise Quality Assessment
*  Result of Ambient Sulfur Dioxide Concentration
.  Result_of Particulate Matter Monitoring
. Noise Level Measurements
|   Sampling Station Map
. Air Dispersion Modelling Diagrams              ___
Vegetation, Wildlife and Insect Profile
*  Flora and Fauna Species Inventory or Survey
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                                     Page N-8



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                          Yes         No             Remarks
. Summary of Endemicity                                                                           l
* Summary of Abundance, Frequency and Distribution
* Site Observation Map                                         _
* Sampling Plot Map
 Transect Walk
* Forest Stand and Stock Tables
. List of Identified  Insects and  other Arthropods
Collected
Coastal and Marine Environment Assessment
* Densities of Seagrasses                                                                         l
. Above-ground biomass of Seagrasses
* Benthic Lifeform Cover
. Abundance and Distribution of Hard/Soft Coral Genera
. List of Fish Species                                           _
._Estimated Biomass of Fish Species                                                               l
* Ranks and Proportion of Commercially and Non-
commercially Important Indicator Species
. Seabottom Cover Map showing coral & seagrass beds
Socio-Economic and Cultural Environment
. Settlement Map or Population Distribution Map
. Tenurial Change Map                                                                             l
* Relocation site Map                                                                             l
* Population to be Directly Affected by the Project                                               l
. Population by Barangay                                                                          l
* Population Growth Rate
. Number of Households and  Household  Size by
Barangay                                                                                       l
. Land Area and Population Density by Barangay
. Population by Sex Composition
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                                 Page N-9



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"MUST" Criteria                        Yes         No             Remarks
* Literacy of Household Population
 Household  Population  by  Highest  Educational
Attainment
* Household Population by Employment Status
* Leading Causes of Infant and Adult Mortality
|   Leading Causes of Infant and Adult Morbidity
* Main Sources of Income
l   Household Profile based on results of the Survey
l   Public Perception Survey                                                                    I
Other Permits or Clearances (when applicable)
I   DAR Conversion Permit                                                                       I
* LGU Locational Clearance and Zoning Viability
*_DENR Permit to Cut
* NWRB Water Use Permit and Allocation
ACTION TAKEN: (Please check to indicate corresponding action taken)
Li   EIS Document accepted
LO   EIS Document not accepted
LI minimum requirements not met
L inadequate copies of EIS documents, additional       copies required
Li not within the jurisdiction of receiving office, please proceed to EMPAS, DENR Region
(signature over printed name)                     SCREENING OFFICE (DENR,      )
SCREENING OFFICER
Procedural Evaluation of EIS                                                               Page N-1 0



APPENDIX 0
FORM 2: SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION BY EIARC MEMBERS
THE SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION TO BE DONE BY THE EIA REVIEW COMMITTEE IS THE
SAME PROCEDURE CURRENTLY UNDERTAKEN BY THE EIARC IN REVIEWING EISS.
THE USE OF FORM 2 IS BEING IMPLEMENTED AS AN INSTRUMENT TO IMPROVE AND
INTEGRATE THE CURRECT BASES FOR REVIEW. THIS WILL FURTHER STREAMLINE THE
REVIEW PROCESS-
TO ENSURE THAT THESE REVIEW CRITERIA ARE TO BE EFFECTIVE IN STREAMLINING THE
REVIEW PROCESS, THE EIARC FOR A PARTICULAR PROJECT SHOULD BE FORMED
PRIOR TO THE SCOPING SESSION-  THE ASSIGNED MEMBERS WOULD THEN
PARTICIPATE IN THE SCOPING SESSION, AS THE AGREEMENTS FORGED DURING THE
SCOPING WILL BE THE "STANDAR DS" AGAINST WHICH THE EIS DOCUMENT WILL BE
REVIEWED FOR SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION BY THE EIARC MEMBERS. LIKEWISE,
THERE SHOULD BE ASSIGNED A SPECIFIC E IA STAFF WHO WILL BE RESPONSIBLE IN
COORDINATING THE EIA REVIEW PROCESS FROM THE TIME OF SCOPING UNTIL THE
ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF THE E CC.
PROCEDURE FOR THE SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION TO BE UNDERTAKEN BY THE EIARC:
1. THE EIARC MEMBERS SHALL EVALUATE THE EIS DOCUMENT BASED ON ITS
SUBSTANTIVE COMPLIANCE TO EACH REVIEW CRITERION IN THE CHECKLIST- THE
EIARC SHALL MEASURE A QUALITY EIS IN TERMS OF THE FOLLOWING RATING
CATEGORIES:
* COMPLETENESS OF INFORMATION - THE DOCUMENT SHOULD FURNISH
THE REQUIRED LEVEL OF DETAIL IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
INFORMATION IDENTIFIED IN THE SCOPING MATRIX:
*  CLARITY OF PRESENTATION   THE DOCUMENT SHOULD BE EASILY
UNDERSTOOD BY THE REVIEWERS AND COMPREHENSIVE FOR DECISION-
MAKING.
* APPROPRIATENESS -_THIS WILL BE MEASURED  IN TERMS OF
CONFORMANCE OF THE EIS DOCUMENT TO TECHNICAL STANDARDS
AND/OR MECHANISMS OF IMPLEMENTATION-
* ACCURACY AND PRECISION IN INFORMATION/ASSESSMENT   THIS
WILL BE GAUGED IN TERMS OF THE ADHERENCE OF THE E IS DOCUMENT
TO THE STANDARD METHOD OF DATA GATHERING, MODELLING,-AND
Substative Evaluation of EIS
Page 0-



ANALYSIS SELECTED AND MUTUALLY AGREED ON DURING THE SCOPING
SESSION:
THE EIARC MEMBERS SHALL INDICATE THROUGH A CHECK/TICK MARK, UNDER THE
PASS (P)/FAIL (F) COLUMN OF EACH CATEGORY FOR RATING, IF THE EIS
DOCUMENT HAS COMPLIED 100%TO THE MUST REQUIREMENTS/CRITERIA-
2. TO SUPPLEMENT #1, THE EIARC SHALL CONDUCT ON-THE-SPOT INSPECTIONS OF
THE PROJECT AREA IN FURTHER EVALUATING THE PROJECT. IF, ON THE BASIS OF
THE EIARC S EVALUATION, THERE IS NEED FOR ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS OR
COMPLIANCE, AS INDICATED BY A FAIL (F) MARK IN AT LEAST ONE CRITERION IN
FORM 2, THEN THE EIS DOCUMENT IS RETURNED TO THE PROPONENT FOR
REVISION OR SUBMISSION OF THE MISSING REQUIREMENT; OTHERWISE, PROCEED
TO #3.
3. IF THE E IS DOCUMENT HAS COMPLIED WITH ALL THE REQUIREMENTS PRESCRIBED
IN THE CHECKLIST FOR A QUALITY EIA, AS INDICATED BY PASS (P) MARKS IN
ALL  THE  CRITERIA, _THEN  THE  EIARC  SUBMITS  ITS  REPORT  AND
RECOMMENDATION TO THE EMB DIRECTOR OR DENR RED.
Substative Evaluation of EIS
Page o-2



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
FORM 2:  SUBSTANTIVE EVALUATION BY EIARC MEMBERS
Name of Proponent        :
Address                  :
Name of Proposed Project  :
Proposed Location        :
Date of ECC Application    :
___=___-        RATING                   I                  I
"MUST" Criteria/RATING            COMPLETE   CLEAR   APPROPRIATE  ACCURATE      Remarks
|P | F         P I F    P  I F  IP I F
1.0  Project Description
1.1   Basic Project Information
(Note: This has been handled in the
procedural evaluation and hence need not
be included in the substantive evaluation)
Statement of the official name of the
project, address, phone/fax no. & project
officer responsible/liable for the EIS                                -       |
1.2  Project Location
a)   Identification     of       barangay,
municipality/city, provincial and regional
location of the project                                                       l
b)   Delineation of areas of primary impact and
areas of secondary impact                                                     l
C)   Modes and routes of public access to the
project                                                    _         __||
1.3  Project Rationale                                     _   __
Substantive Evaluation of EIS                                                         Page 0-3



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
___              RATING
"MUST" Criteria/RATING            |COMPLETE [ CLEAR  ] APPROPRIATE  ACCURATE       Remarks
| P | F  |   P    | F |    F    || P    | Fl
a)   Presentation  of project purpose  and
background  (reasons  why  project is
proposed)                             ll               __   _
b)   Presentation of need for the project at the
national, regional and local levels   L_I_L___I_ I
1.4   Description of Project Phases        l_l___l_                                                        l
1.4.1 Pre-Operational /Construction Phase_________
a)   Presentation  of construction plan and
schedule in chart form                                      _          _
b)   Presentation of total surface development
block/construction area showing graphical
scale
c)    Estimate of total area to be opened for
civil works within the block/construction
area                                  l___l__
d)   Listing and discussion of nature of major
openings and construction activities                       l
e)    Listing  and  discussion  of criteria for
specific site selection within the block/area              I
f)    Types and number of basic enginnering
equipment  and   corresponding  load
capacities                            l      __  l                                _ ____
g)   Route and frequency of transportation
from   source  of  materials  to  the
construction site                                _                           _
h)    Source of construction materials
Substantive Evaluation of EIS                                                            Page 0-4



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
RATING
l"MUST  Criteria/RATING             COMPLETE    CLEAR   APPROPRIATE  ACCURATE        Remarks
i -<11 ~~~~~~~~~~P| F  |-    F    P    F  __PL
i)    Discussion  of support  services  and
facilities requirements and availability (e.g.
water    sources,    electricity    and
infrastructures)
j)    Estimate of total cut soil volume
k)    Total   manpower   requirement   for
construction   phase  (including  skills
requirement)                          l          l__                   |_l
1.4.2 Operational Phase                                            _ l_                            _|
a)    Presentation of project operation schedule
and duration                                                           I
b)    Description    of    the      process
technology/project    activities,    and
process/activity  flow   including   the
following:                                                             l
. project capacity                                                     I
. project layout
. flow diagram
. new material requirement (water, air,
electricity, supplies, chemicals, others)  ____l
X   materials balance                             _     _
c)    Presentation and description of the waste
production scheme
d)    Manpower requirement (including skills
requirement and source)                                           _                __
1.4.3 Abandonment Phase  __                 _ l__  l                         l
Substantive Evaluation of EIS                                                              Page 0-5



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
___              RATING
"MUST" Criteria/RATING             COMPLETE |  CLEAR  ]ROPRIATE | ACCURATE          Remarks
P |F 11P  I F ||P     F  -P T F
'  _   _   _   _    _ _   _   _   ___                _,  l_                                                'I_  ~   J P
a)    Listing of facilities to be abandoned                                                                I
b)   Description           of           site
rehabilitation/restoration plan  l |             __
c)    Description  and  discussion  of waste
produced from abandonment activities   l_l_
d)    Description           and            discussion           of            waste             management
e)    Manpower requirement        f)      Presentation     of      abandonment       schedule      and
g)    Cost of abandonment activities     2.0   Baseline Environmental Conditions    (Land, Water, Air, People
) a)  Presentation                        of                         Study                           Details/
List   of    EIA    Study    Team          Location,    area    &    size/scope    of    study        Study
Study  methods/procedures        List  of  data  sources;  identify  whether  primary  or  secondary
b) Presentation of primary and secondary data Matrix    c)    Description of Existing Conditions     d)
Proof                   of                   the                    Project's                   Social
3.0  Impact Assessment and Mitigating Measures 3.1  Impact Identification       a)  Presentation  of a
matrix                       of                                                                         the
list of critical phases/processes of the project  list of sources of potential impacts per critical process of
the
list of impacts arising from #2 plus general list of corresponding measures ex. Reinjection, wastewater
treatment       b)     Brief Discussion of the matrix presenting the cause and effect relationships or linkages
between                           project                           processes                           and
3.2 Impact Prediction and Evaluation     3.2.1     Future
Environmenta ***************************************************************************
Substantive Evaluation of EIS                                                             Page 0-6



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
************************************** ********************************************
********* *************************************************************************
**************************************************************************  *
***************************************************************************
* ******** ******************************* *** ***************** **** ********** ****** *****
***********************************************************************************M**
** ********************** **** *********** ***** ******* ***************************** ******
Substantive*********Evaluation********of***E**S**Page*****0-7                  *



- # #
DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
*************************************************************************************
**********************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
**************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*********************************
*************************************************************************************
* * * * * * * * * * * * * ** ** * * * * * * * * * * ** * * *
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
***********************
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
********************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
*************************************************************************************
******************************************************************************************************************************************
******************************************************************************
Substantive Evaluation of EIS                                       Page 0-8



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
"**'****  er printed name)
MEMBER, EIA Review Committee
(signature over printed name)
ME MBE R, E IA Review Committee
Substantive E valuation of E IS



DENR EIS REVIEW CRITERIA
(signature over printed name)
E IS Coordinator (DE NR,
S
Substantive E valuation of E I S



