Document of
The World Bank
Report No 19639-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
AND A
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT OF SDRI.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (APL)
November 8, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 3, 1999)
Currency Unit = Peso
I Peso= US$0.025
US$I = Peso 40.!0
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
AFMA           Agriculture and Fisheries Modemization Act
APL            Adaptable Program Loan
ARMM           Autonomous Region for Muslim Mindanao
BDC            Barangay Development Council
BFAR           Bureau of Fisheries, and Aquatic Resources
BLGF           Bureau of Local Government Finance
BWSA           Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Association
CADC           Certified Ancestral Domain Claim
CADTEC         Cotabato Agribusiness Development Technology Center
CARP           Comprehensive Agrarian Refonr Program
CBRMP          Community-Based Resource Management Project
CF             Community Fund
CIDPII         Second Communal Irrigation Development Project
CIDSS          Comprehensive Institutional and Delivery of Social Services
CIS            Communal Irrigation System
CMBC           Coastal Marine Biodiversity Conservation
COA            Commission on Audit
DA             Department of Agriculture
DENR           Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DILG           Department of Interior and Local Government
DOF            Department of Finance
DOH            Department of Health
DPWH           Department of Public Works and Highways
DSWD           Department of Social Welfare and Development
ECC            Environmental Compliance Certificate
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
FMIPs          Financial Management Improvement Programs
FMR            Farm-to-Market Road
lAs            Irrigators' Associations
EPs           Indigenous Peoples
IRA            Internal Revenue Allotment
ISF            Integrated Social Forestry
LB-ES          Labor Based-Equipment Supported
LBP            Land Bank of the Philippines
LDCs           Local Development Councils
LGC            Local Government Code of 1991
LGUs           Local Government Units
MBN            Minimum Basic Needs



MDC           Municipal Development Councils
MDF           Municipal Development Fund
MDFO          Municipal Development Fund Office
MEO           Municipal Engineer's Office
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS           Management Information System
MOA           Memorandum of Agreement
MPDC          Municipal Planning and Development Council
MPDO          Municipal Planning and Development Office
MRDP          Mindanao Rural Development Program
NGAs          National Govemment Agencies
NCIP          National Commission for Indigenous Peoples
NEDA          National Economic and Development Authority
NGOs          Non-Government Organizations
NIA           National Irrigation Administration
O & M         Operation and Maintenance
ODA           Official Development Assistance
OSCC          Office of Southern Cultural Communities
PCO           Program Coordination Office
PEO           Provincial Engineer's Office
PGB           Policy Goveming Board of the MDF
PIAs          Project Implementing Agencies
PIO           Provincial Irrigation Office
PMB           Program Management Board
PMC           Provincial Monitoring Committee
PMR           Project Management Report
PPDC          Provincial Planning and Development Council
PPDO          Provincial Planning and Development Office
PPIU          Provincial Project Implementation Unit
PRME          Process and Results Monitoring and Evaluation
RFU           Regional Field Unit (of DA)
SA            Special Account
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Vinay K. Bhargava
Sector Director: Geoffrey Fox
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Rahul Raturi






Philippines
Mindanao Rural Development Project
(Adaptable Program Loan)
CONTENTS
Page
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program Purpose and Design                                                      2
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators                     3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                                 4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program/project and strategic choices       6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    9
3. Benefits and target population                                                   9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                        14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     16
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                        16
2. Financial                                                                       18
3. Technical                                                                       18
4. Institutional                                                                   19
5. Social                                                                          19
6. Environmental assessment                                                        20
7. Participatory approach                                                          20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  21
2. Critical risks                                                                  21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  23



G. Main Loan Conditions                                                                  23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          24
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        24
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex I (a)   Letter of Development Program
Annex I (b)   Social Assessment
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 2 (a)   Infrastructure Component
Annex 2 (b)   Community Funds for Agricultural Development Component
Annex 2 (c)   Improving Microfinance Access
Annex 2 (d)   Institutional/Implementation Support Component
Annex 2 (e)   Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Conservation (GEF)
Attachment. Incremental Cost Analysis
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Economic Analysis
Annex 5.     LGU Fiscal Analysis
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Philippines: Country at a Glance
Maps
IBRD 30240
IBRD 30241



Philippines
Mindanao Rural Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Philippines Country Department
Date: November 8,1999                                Task Teamn LeaderlTask Manager: Rahul Raturi
Country Director: Vinay Bhargava                     Sector Director: Geoffrey Fox
Project ID: PE-58842    Sector: Rural Development   Prograrn Objective Category: Rural Development/Poverty
LendinglInstrument: Adaptable Program Loan           Program of TargetedlIntervention:  [X] Yes    ]No
Program Phasing              Total Cost           External Financing                  Processing
Bank Loan            GEF       Appraisal       Bank Approval
APL 1 January 2000-June 2003  US$41 .Om    US$27.50m         US$1 .25m    June '99        Nov. 99 (Board)
APL2 January 2003-Dec. 2006  US$150m       US$90m            US$3.50m     Apr. '02        Oct. '02 (RVP)
APL3 July 2006-June2010      US$200m       US$100m           US$4.75m     Oct. '05        March '06 (RVP)
APL4 January 2010-June 2013  US$160m       US$72m            US$4.50m      Apr. '09       Oct. '09 (RVP)
Total             US$ 550m     US$ 290m           US$ 14.Om
Project Financing Data                [X} Loan         [  Credit        I Guarantee    [X] Grant
Amount (US$m): US$27.5 IBRD Loan            SDR I .Om (US$1.25m equivalent) GEF Grant
Proposed terms (Loan):                   [    Multicurrency      [XI Single currency (US Dollar)
Grace period (years): 5           L ]   Standard Variable   ]  Fixed           [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                               Local              Foreign            Total
National Government                                             5.9                  0.3              6.2
Local Governments                                               3.7                  2.0              5.7
Beneficiaries                                                   0.5                 0.1               0.6
IBRD                                                           17.6                  9.6             27.2
GEF                                                              1.2                 0.1              1.3
Total           28.9                12.1             41.0
Borrower: Republic of the Philippines
Responsible agency: Department of Agriculture
Estimated disbursements IBRD Loan (Bank FY/US$M):       2000        2001      2002    2003
Annual                 1.0         6.0       9.5     11.0
Cumulative                 1.0        7.0       16.5    27.5
Estimated disbursements GEF Grant (Bank FY/US$M):        2000       2001      2002    2003
Annual                0.10        0.30      0.40    0.45
Cumulative                0.10        0.40      0.80    1.25
Project Implementation Period: January 1, 2000 to June 30, 2003



- 2-
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program design
Program Objectives. Poverty alleviation is a key objective of the Government's development plan for the
medium term. Rural poverty accounts for nearly two thirds of the country's total poor. and Mindanao, the
second largest island in the Philippines, accounts for nearly a third of the country's rural poor. Since the
early 1980s, the island has seen an increase in the incidence of rural poverty. Fourteen of the countries 20
poorest provinces (based on minimum basic needs) are in Mindanao; and 72 percent of the island's 437
municipalities belong to the 4th to 6th LGU (local government unit) class using the DOF's classification
based on income. Consequently, the government's development strategy places particular importance on
supporting growth initiatives in Mindanao. With many of the rural poor relying on the agriculture sector
(fisheries is considered as part of the sector) for their livelihood, the intensification and better
management of the sector is seen to be extremely important for reducing rural poverty and conserving
terrestrial, aquatic, and marine natural resources.
The Rural Development Strategy' which was recently completed in close consultation with
Government, highlights the constraints (policy, design and efficiency of existing investment programs,
and institutional) faced in realizing the potential which exists in the agriculture sector; and outlines a
variety of measures needed to address these constraints. The proposed Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
program is set against the background of this analysis of constraints, and the fact that Mindanao, which
despite the considerable potential for increasing agriculture production, has witnessed an increase in the
incidence of rural poverty since the early 1980s.
Accordingly, the APL program is designed as a targeted poverty reduction program for the
rural poor and indigenous communities of Mindanao, aimed specifically at improving
incomes and food security in the targeted rural communities within the 24 provinces of
Mindanao. This would be achieved from the implementation of better targeted agricultural
and fisheries-related rural development and biological diversity conservation programs, and
improved LGU institutional, management and financial systems.
At the same time, given the long history of conflict on the island of Mindanao, the realization of sustained
rural growth and visible benefits to conflict-affected populations, will directly contribute to reinforcing
the Government's efforts at consolidating the peace initiatives for the island.
Program Design (see Annex 1): Past experience has shown that an effective program of poverty
alleviation requires a sustained long-term commitment and involvement, which is often difficult to ensure
through a single investment operation. Consequently, a phased long-term program involving a series of
four Adaptable Program Loans (APL), supplemented by a GEF grant, each covering a period of between
3 to 4 years, is proposed, so as to effectively realize the above objectives, and secure sustainability in
institutional capacity building and poverty alleviation. APL I, which is the subject of this appraisal
document, would focus on a few selected provinces (see Map), to test out the approach, and initiate the
process of engaging LGUs and rural communities in designing and implementing a rural development and
coastal resources conservation program, in close association with concerned national government
agencies (NGAs). The Government has confirmed the objectives and scope of the overall program in a
letter to the Bank (Annex Ia), and agreed on key triggers for moving onto APL2, which would include:
I Philippines: Promoting Equitable Rural Growth, Report No. 17979-PH, May 29, 1998.



*  APL2 Project Preparation to be initiated once about 60 percent of the APLI Loan has been disbursed.
Implementation evaluation of APL I to be carried out: social assessment of an initial group of eligible
APL2 provinces to be carried out.
* Institutional arrangements for implementation tested out and adapted based on experience in APL I;
multisectoral committees for the Community Funds operating satisfactorily.
*  Overall satisfactory performance of APL 1, using the mid-term evaluation as a basis for assessment.
* APL2 Loan to be approved once 80 percent of APLI Loan is disbursed, and the balance is
substantially committed.
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project development objectives reflect the larger program goals, and aim to increase incomes
and improve the food security of targeted agricultural and fisherfolk communities in around 32
municipalities within 5 provinces of Mindanao (North Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Agusan del Sur,
Compostela Valley, Maguindanao). Together, these provinces cover an area of about 30,400 km2 (30
percent of Mindanao), and have a population of about 3.0 million; based on recent estimates of poverty,
approximately 55 percent fall below the poverty line. It is expected that about 20 percent of this
population will benefit from this first phase project. The project would also promote the participation of
indigenous peoples (IPs), who represent a large part of the population of some municipalities, and of
women, who play a key role in both agriculture and family nutrition.
A social assessment was carried out in the first two provinces (North Cotabato and Sultan
Kudarat) where program implementation will commence in Year 1, to ascertain the main constraints
faced by rural communities, and guide the project design. Based on the survey and focus group
discussions conducted (see Section E 6), rural infrastructure was identified as the highest priority by all
communities, regardless of typologies, gender and ethnicity. Within infrastructure, the construction of
access roads and bridges (especially in the rolling and mountainous areas where sitios are not even
accessible from the barangay poblacion), and repair/rehabilitation of existing barangay roads, was
considered most important. Potable water supply ranked second, while the construction/rehabilitation of
irrigation systems and electricity followed in the infrastructure category. Agricultural inputs and other
support services came next in priority, with post-harvest facilities, credit, government support price for
goods and marketing assistance, farm inputs and extension services identified as most needed. IP
communities, however, indicated farm animals (carabaos) and other farm implements as their highest
priority. While sharing the communities' perception that roads are most essential to facilitate
development within their areas, women consider potable water supply, livelihood opportunities, health
and quality education services as priority needs.
Despite the enactment of the Local Government Code (LGC) in 1991, the key challenge faced in
the Philippines is how to implement the complementary roles seen for national government agencies
(NGAs) and LGUs to efficiently deliver programs for rural/agricultural development, which effectively
address the above mentioned constraints faced by rural communities. Responding to this challenge,
APLI would aim to test out community-based systems for supporting rural development, as well as
approaches for improving LGU capability for agricultural development planning and implementation in
partnership with the concerned NGAs. The experience and lessons from APL I will help scale up the
program under APL2 to other provinces in Mindanao which meet eligibility criteria. APLI would realize
these objectives by:
* Meeting community needs for essential rural infrastructure, to foster increased agricultural
productivity and access to potential markets; facilitate the introduction of sustainable agricultural
production systems and diversification of present cropping systems: improved access to financial



- 4-
resources and agricultural inputs; and more effective technical support services. In doing so, the
project would be supporting the Government in the implementation of the Agriculture and
Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA).
Enhancing devolution and local autonomy, by reinforcing the implementation of the LGC, as it
relates to aspects concerning agricultural and fisheries development and improved natural resources
management. The first phase project would aim to strengthen rural development planning and
implementation capacity of the different levels of LGUs, in partnership with concerned NGAs;
improve monitoring and evaluation of ongoing rural development initiatives; and strengthening
community participation in LGU planning for rural development.
A strong participatory approach, using a program of social assessments, and involving the rural
community, the LGUs, and local representatives of national government agencies (NGAs) would be a
central feature of project implementation.
Global Environmental Objective and Key Performance Indicators. The objectives of the proposed GEF-
assisted component are to conserve and restore globally important coastal habitats and related marine
biodiversity in Mindanao by mainstreaming biodiversity and marine ecosystem conservation in
community development and in the coastal fisheries sector. Many coastal regions of Mindanao have
received little international, national, and local attention to conserving natural marine resources. The
proposed GEF-assisted component would help in creating sanctuaries and protected habitats for
endangered species found in the area, including species of dugong and sea turtle. This project will also
help to advance a model with broader applicability for mainstreaming biodiversity considerations in a
sector with crucial social, economic, and environmental dimensions throughout Mindanao (including the
ARMM), the Philippines, and tropical regions. Through the implementation of the proposed MRDP, the
lessons learmed from first phase activities would be applied to arrest degradation and restore coastal and
marine biodiversity in subsequent phases. The subsequent phases would expand project implementation
to include additional qualifying sites in the coastal provinces of Mindanao included under the project.
The key performance indicators for this component are provided in Annex 1.
Key Performance Indicators. These (including those for the GEF component) are given in Annex 1, and
will be monitored under a strong M&E system, which includes community-based monitoring
mechanisms, already being developed under the project. It is important to emphasize, however, that
addressing the institutional issues in the Philippines is complex, with decentralization offering both a
challenge and an opportunity. No easy solutions are necessarily there, and expectations from this first
phase APL, which will be making a start on addressing some of the key institutional issues, should be
modest. However, in the long term context, the experience in implementing APL I will guide adaptations
for the succeeding phases.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report No. 19137-PH   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 4, 1999
In supporting the above development objectives, the proposed program is consistent with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy, which has as its overarching objective, the restoration of sustainable
economic growth with more poverty reduction and greater equity. For the sector, the CAS aims to support
the Government's goal of accelerating environmentally sustainable agricultural growth and alleviating
poverty in the rural areas. In doing so, the Bank's program is directed at alleviating the main constraints
of low volume and impact of private and public investments and weak institutional capacity. Based on
the outcomes of the social assessment, and what rural folk view as the principal constraints to income



- 5-
growth and food security, the proposed MRDP APL program is seen as part of the Bank's program to
address these constraints and support poverty alleviation. The APL I project is the first phase of this
program, and will aim to address these constraints in 5 provinces and around 32 municipalities in
Mindanao.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Performance and Issues
About half of the Philippine population is rural, of which 64 percent is involved in agriculture.
Agriculture accounted for about 17 percent of the country's GDP in 1998, and about 40 percent of the
employed work force. In the high performning Asian countries, there has been a strong positive correlation
between the rate of agricultural growth and the growth experienced in the non-agricultural sector. This
linkage has been weak in the Philippines, where agricultural sector performance has been sluggish and
uneven since the early 1980s. Excluding forestry, which has been declining consistently since the 1970s,
the average annual rate of growth of agriculture decelerated from 5.8 percent in the 1 970s to 2.1 percent
in the 1980s, and a mere 1.3 percent during the period 1993-98. While some of the factors which have
slowed sector growth after the 1980s were beyond the control of Government, such as the overall
downward trend in international commodity prices of the country's traditional export crops, deterioration
of intersectoral terms of trade, and a series of natural calamities, there are others on which the
Government could exercise control. Among the latter, was a serious under-investment in the rural sector
by the Government, which was reflected in inadequate infrastructure and support services (other such
factors included a slowdown in varietal improvements, particularly in paddy, marking a near completion
of the green revolution by the early 1980s, and a poor macroeconomic environment). Low growth in the
agricultural sector, high growth in the rural labor force (over 3 percent per annum in the 1 990s), and
limited employment opportunities in non-farm activities, have resulted in high underemployment (21
percent) in the rural economy and a high rural poverty incidence (44 percent in 1997). The rural poor
account for over two thirds of the poor in the country.
Linked to reviving agriculture sector growth, the improved management of the critical natural
resource base in the upland areas, as well as the coastal resources, is the other major development
challenge for the country, and has important implications for ensuring the sustainability of rural growth,
and for rural poverty alleviation. Many of the poor rural people live in the upland and coastal areas: the
former are characterized by low-input shifting agriculture, with a high incidence of severely degraded
areas; while the coastal and fishery resources are being depleted due to illegal and over exploitation.
Finally, the enactment of the LGC in 199 1, and the resulting devolution of responsibilities and
fiscal resources to local govemment units, has resulted in major changes in the institutional arrangements
for supporting agriculture sector growth, and more broadly for rural development. As of mid-1997, about
70,000 national government employees had been devolved to LGUs; the devolved responsibilities cut
across sectors, with agriculture and fisheries, infrastructure, social services and health being the main
ones. Key issues which need to be addressed include: greater clarity and complementarity in the roles
being played by the DA and the LGUs in supporting rural growth; strengthening of technical and
administrative capability of LGUs to facilitate more effective planning and implementation of rural
development programs; and closer involvement of local communities, NGOs and peoples organizations in
program design and implementation.
For Mindanao, the Government's development framework has identified a number of issues, key
among which are the following: the high incidence of poverty; lack of livelihood and employment
opportunities especially for the poor in the rural areas, and for those involved with agri-based
occupations; inadequate access to basic infrastructure and services, particularly in the depressed areas and
communities; and limitations in institutional capacity.



- 6-
Government Strategy to Address Sector Issues
The Government's strategy for securing sustained agriculture sector growth include: (i)
deepening policy reforms to make the sector internationally more competitive; (ii) increased public
investment in infrastructure, especially irrigation facilities, farm-to-market roads (FMR) and post-harvest
facilities, to support intensive farming technologies; (iii) increased research and development
investments, in partnership with the private sector; (iv) increased funding for agrarian reforn, and making
it more effective and less costly: (v) improving natural resource management through policy reform,
institutional strengthening, greater community participation, and development of appropriate tenurial and
market-based instruments; (vi) streamlining the agriculture-related bureaucracy, including the interface
between central and local governments; and (vii) making devolution more effective through improvement
in the institutional capabilities of LGUs and channeling of adequate resources for devolved rural
development activities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program/project and strategic choices:
The proposed program is closely aligned to the Government's strategic priorities as identified
above. More specifically, the program would focus on strengthening local institutional capacity,
following devolution, since the LGUs are key to securing sustained long-term rural growth. It would
facilitate an increase in public investment for the agriculture and natural resources sectors in Mindanao,
which the Government has identified as the major focus for agricultural and fisheries production due to its
still largely untapped potential for development. It would focus particularly on rural infrastructure, which
is viewed as a major bottleneck for increasing rural growth; strengthen the delivery of inputs, credit and
technical support services to the smaller and more disadvantaged groups within farning community; and
reinforce the implementation of the Local Government Code, by supporting measures which strengthen
LGU rural development planning and implementation capacity, and ensure the more effective
involvement of communities in programming of investments and their implementation.
In reviewing alternative approaches while designing the proposed program, key considerations
have included the following: (i) since responsibilities for most of the activities related to supporting rural
development having been devolved (for example, rural infrastructure -- roads, communal irrigation, water
supply, extension support services, etc.), a targeted approach, which takes the province as the basic unit
for planning, is likely to be more effective in addressing the needs of the poorer rural communities; (ii)
sustainability of the productive investments for such activities, and effective O&M arrangements, can be
best assured with strong local government initiative and participation, and by seeking their long termn
commitment to the program; and (iii) demand-driven and participatory approaches need to be at the core
of the project planning and implementation process.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description andAnnex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The design of the project has been guided by a social assessment carried out in selected
municipalities of the first two program provinces of North Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat (see Map for year
participating LGUs). Based on criteria developed in consultation with the heads of national agencies (DA.
NEDA, DILG) from the six regions of Mindanao, as well as the Autonomous Region of Muslim
Mindanao (ARMM), 3 additional provinces have been selected for inclusion in APLI - Agusan del Sur,
Compostela Valley and Maguindanao, and a similar program of social assessments is being initiated in
these new provinces. The thrust of the program is on meeting the key needs of rural communities for



- 7-
supporting rural/agricultural development, and on strengthening the process of devolution and local
capacity building.
Rural Infrastructure (Annex 2a): The project will rehabilitate rural roads (an estimated 40
kms of provincial, and 460kms of farm market roads), from within the designated provincial and
municipal/barangay farm-to-market roads (FMR) network, which are the direct responsibility of the
relevant LGUs. Taking a network approach (with the province as the unit for planning purposes), the key
principles underpinning the design of the proposed component are: adoption of least cost approaches for
the FMRs (municipalities will be allocated lump sums, and the use of lower cost designs and options, will
allow for the implementation of longer road lengths); contracting as opposed to implementation by force
account; and emphasis on labor-based, equipment-supported (LB-ES) approaches. The selective
improvement of provincial roads will ensure that all project supported rural roads meet an essential
criteria that they link up with an existing all-weather road. The project will seek a commitment to
undertake routine maintenance from the participating LGUs, with sanctions for non-performance (LGUs
not fulfilling this commitment, will not be eligible for the following year's program). In supporting
communal irrigation, APL I will facilitate transition arrangements for LGUs to take over greater
responsibility for communal irrigation developments, as envisaged under the LGC. Given the limited role
of LGUs in irrigation development so far, NIA will take the lead role in APLI (but closely involve LGU
staff), in designing and implementing the program; LGU capacity will be strengthened in communal
irrigation management, focusing particularly on supporting lAs in effective operation and maintenance of
the schemes. The project will rehabilitate about 4,350 ha of existing communal irrigation systems (CIS),
and selectively construct new projects (CIPs) in targeted poverty areas (about 850 ha, none to be
implemented in year 1). Selection criteria for the schemes would follow those already in force under the
ongoing Bank-financed Communal Irrigation Development Project II (CIDP II). In response to the
priority placed by rural communities, particularly women, on the provision of safe potable water, the
project will support rehabilitation and construction of Level I (point source) and II (communal faucet)
spring development projects; provision has been made within APL I for the rehabilitation of around 140
units in 5th and 6`h class municipalities. The establishment of RuraVBarangay Water and Sanitation
Association and certification from the Department of Health on satisfactory water quality will be pre-
conditions for supporting rural water supply sub-projects within a community.
Community Funds for Agricultural Development (Annex 2b): To address the diverse
priorities of communities (varying also on account of their respective agro-ecological situation - coastal,
marshland, lowland, mountainous), Community Funds for Agricultural Development (CF) will be set up
at municipality level. Initially, a fund of PhP2.5 million would be available for each municipality, with
contributions from the municipal LGU (PhPO.5m), DA (PhPO.5m), and the Loan proceeds (PhPI.5m).
The CF will finance demand-driven sub-projects which are consistent with DA's programs and priorities
for supporting agricultural and fisheries development. Poor communities will be targeted, and preference
will be given to women and indigenous peoples groups. Multisectoral committees established at
municipal level, with private sector/NGO representation, will manage the sub-project selection process.
Selection criteria for the sub-projects would be kept simple (maximize beneficiaries per sub-project,
projects are cooperatively owned, least cost per beneficiary, consistent with AFMA, size of counterpart
contribution), given that these are going to be inexpensive and small in size. Overall, the objectives of CF
are to: i) strengthen decision-making capacity at community level for design and implementation of sub-
projects; ii) ensure that programs financed from DA's budgetary resources better reflect community
needs; and iii) ensure that resource allocation for development projects at the LGU level better reflect
community priorities. Together, these will reinforce the implementation of the LGC.
2 The mulitsectoral committees, which would include representatives from the rural community, would also
facilitate the prioritization of roads from among those within a municipality which meet selection criteria.



- 8-
LGU Institutionalflmplementation Support: Initiatives to strengthen local capacity will
include the following: (i) Support for microfinance institutions (Annex 2c), given the limited access to
financial services by small borrowers for both. farmn and non-farm purposes: (ii) Support for enhancing
rural development planning and resource allocation capacity at the LGU level through TA and on-the-
job training, and by bringing about a closer linkage with the DA at the regional level (Annex 2d; and (iii)
linked to building rural development capacity, the project would provide implementation support and
thereby enhance local govemment capacity in financial management, and monitoring and evaluation; in
addition, the project would support the Program Coordination Office (PCO), which would also be
responsible for providing implementation support to LGUs, and for preparing the next phase APL2
(Annex 2d).
Coastal/Marine Biodiversity Conservation (Annex 2e): Complementing the above initiatives,
and as an integral part of the overall program, a proposal for funds totaling US$1.25 million has been
approved by the GEF Council (as earlier endorsed by DENR), to finance the incremental costs of
promoting coastal and marine biodiversity conservation and sustainable use in the coastal waters of
Mindanao. Two sites have been selected where the program would be implemented in APLI: Paril-
Sangay Protected Seascape, Kalamansig, Sultan Kudarat Province; and Bongo Island, Parang,
Maguindanao Province.
Component                Category     Cost Incl.    % of  Bank/GEF      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing   Bank/GEF
(US$M)              (US$M)   -financing
A. Rural Infrastructure Improvement                  27.4       66.3    21.0        76.6
*  Rural Roads/Access                Physical         16.9      40.9    13.1        77.8
*  Communal Irrigation               Physical         8.5       20.6      6.7       79.2
*  Rural Water Supply                Physical         1.4        3.4      1.1       80.4
*  Infra. Mgt. Capacity Building    Instn. Bldg.      0.6        1.4      0.1        17.5
B. Community Funds for Agric. Dev.   Physical         6.5       15.7      3.7       57.1
C. Institutional/lmplementation Support               5.4       13.1      2.5       46.3
*  Rural Finance/Credit              Instn. Bldg.     0.4        0.9      0.1       18.4
*  Rural Development Planning        Instn. Bldg.     1.3        3.2      0.6       46.3
*  Financial Management              Instn. Bldg.     0.4        1.0      0.3       61.0
*  Monitoring and Evaluation         lnstn. Bldg.     0.5        1.2      0.4       84.0
*  Program Coordination             Instn. Bldg.      2.8        6.9      1.1       39.9
D. Coastal Biodiversity Conservation -GEF | Phy./lnstn.  1.7     4.2      1.3       75.1
Total Project Costs                  41.0        99.3      28.5       69.4
Front-end fee                 0.3        0.7      0.3       100.0
Total Financing Required                   41.3        100.0    28.8*      100.0
*Total financing includes a GEF grant of US$1.25 million and Bank loan of US$27.5 million; the front-end fee is
included in the latter.
Implementation Schedule. APL1 will be implemented over three and a half years, from January 1, 2000
to June 30, 2003. Since most of the infrastructure activities proposed under APL I can be implemented
primarily during the dry season, which generally runs from around February to May, this will enable the
program to be implemented over four dry seasons. Program implementation will commence in 2
provinces and 11 municipalities where all the necessary preparatory work has been undertaken, in close
partnership with the LGUs as well as the potential beneficiary communities. A detailed program of
procurement has been prepared, which aims to ensure that year I works contracts are awarded soon after
effectiveness. Detailed preparatory work is being initiated to finalize the program for year 2, and initiate
the key project start up activities in the additional 3 provinces and 21 municipalities (in particular the



9-
Social Assessment, and firming up the physical programs); the additional municipalities were selected by
representatives of concerned Mindanao based NGAs (DA, DILG, NEDA), and the relevant participating
provinces, and confirmed prior to negotiations. It is planned that by early in year 2, the 3 additional
provinces and all the remaining 21 municipalities which will participate in APL I, will be engaged in
project implementation. Assurances were given at negotiations that commencing in the year 2000, and
each year thereafter, the PCO will prepare a consolidated annual work plan for the physical and financial
implementation targets to be achieved in the following year, including the requirements for counterpart
budgetary resources from the national and local governments respectively, to be completed by March 31
each year. It was agreed that LGUs which do not meet their commitments (particularly in terms of
allocating sufficient counterpart funds, and undertaking routine maintenance on roads), or are unable to
successfully meet physical targets for implementation, will be excluded from the project, and replaced by
new LGUs which meet the criteria for project participation.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed program is designed to strengthen the implementation of institutional reforms
already put in place by the Government. It will build on the existing framework provided under the LGC
(which transferred responsibility for certain sectors to local governments, as well as fiscal resources
known as Internal Revenue Allotments, or IRA), and strengthen the devolution of responsibilities to
LGUs, and enhance participatory planning and local autonomy in designing and implementing
development programs. Presently, annual development plans of many LGUs are often listings of
resolutions and requests for interventions to be funded out of the 20 percent Development Fund. This
often results in projects being financed which are not always the most beneficial for the community, but
possibly have persuasive local promoters, or are supported by local vested interests. In addition, the lack
of sufficient funds with LGUs has adversely impacted allocation for rural capital investment, given the
"lumpiness" of capital expenditures such as for roads, small-scale irrigation and rural water supply. The
project will aim to bring about more efficient allocation of LGU resources in financing rural
infrastructure, among others, (particularly on rural roads, and also seek their financial contribution in
supporting small-scale irrigation), and a greater commitment from LGUs towards financing a program of
routine maintenance of the rural/FMR road network. A related issue which will be addressed is the role of
the NGAs, and how that needs to change with decentralization, from one of being providers and
implementers of programs, to becoming facilitators providing technical support to LGUs.
Taking the above into account, the project will endeavor to strengthen institutional capacity, bring
about greater clarity in the respective roles of LGUs and NGAs, and work with particularly the DA, on
how best to effect the transfer of additional financial resources for viable and pressing programs (and seek
out ways to ensure greater complementarity in the programs financed from various sources).
3. Benefits and target population:
National Benefits: The project would contribute to an increase in overall value added in the rural
economy, incomes and employment, and thereby result in an improved quality of life for some 105,000
poor rural families (involving more than 600,000 individuals), which represents nearly 20 percent of the
population of the 5 participating provinces. The direct benefits would come from increased agricultural
production and crop diversification, as well as savings in vehicle operating costs and from safer water
supply to rural communities. Subprojects financed under the community fund component would provide
some of the poorer rural families with investment and income enhancing opportunities, and also facilitate
ownership of assets at the local level. Significant institutional and social benefits should accrue from the
focus on improving rural development planning, implementation and M&E capacity of LGUs, better
allocation of available resources made available from both local government and national levels to
support rural development, as well as from increasing the role of rural communities and the participation
of project beneficiaries in the decision making processes. The latter will directly contribute to fostering



- 10-
the creation of social capital. Nearly 85 percent of the project resources support productive investment
and community-based investments, and will flow directly to the target populations in the rural areas.
Global Benefits: The areas considered for biodiversity protection host three species of marine
turtles and dugongs whose distribution range have been shrinking due to habitat destruction. The project
sites will become an important and substantial addition to their natural distribution range. The project will
reap significant benefits on the conservation of this globally important areas with its host of rare species
of seagrasses (Thalassodendrum ciliatum) and highly diverse corals.
Target Population: The proposed program is part of the Bank's program of targeted
interventions, and will support provinces in Mindanao with high levels of poverty incidence and a largely
agricultural base. The primary beneficiaries will be the rural poor, being mainly the small farmers and
fisherfolk, those who live in the coastal and highland communities, the agrarian reform communities, and
indigenous peoples. Criteria have been agreed with government (focusing on poverty and agriculture
profiles) for selecting and prioritizing the participation of provinces in the program (see Annex I a). The
targeting of communities and areas would be pursued using the following approach:
*  Geographical targeting: Selection of the municipalities where the project would be implemented is
based on: scale of poverty incidence and magnitude; importance of agriculture and fisheries in the
local economy (in line with the objectives of the Government's Anti-Poverty legislation); and absence
of other similar rural development donor-supported programs. Income class was taken into account in
selecting the first 11 municipalities (with guidance from NEDA), but this criteria is not being
considered for the remaining 22 municipalities, given the lack of correlation between income class
and poverty.
*  Beneficiary targeting: The program is designed to target the less well-off communities, for example,
existing agrarian reform communities, as well as indigenous communities and women living within
the participating provinces. Women and IP communities would be specially targeted under the CF,
with 40 percent of the funds earmarked to support their subproject proposals. The emphasis on
community involvement in selecting location and type of interventions (in the case of the CF
subprojects) aims to ensure maximum impact on the rural communities.
Social assessments being done of the rural communities (already completed in the initial two provinces of
North Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat) allow for better targeting of communities and areas under the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall, the program would fall under the Department of Agriculture (DA), and directed by a Program
Management Board (PMB), chaired by the Secretary DA, which has already been established under
Executive Order no. 474 dated March 24, 1998 signed by the President. A senior official in DA's RFU in
each of the participating Regions will be responsible for overseeing and facilitating MRDP
implementation from the DA's perspective. Given the Mindanao wide context of the program, the
Program Coordination Office (PCO) staffed by the DA, which has also been established by virtue of EO
474, would coordinate and support the implementation of the program. Direct project planning and
implementation responsibility would be vested in the LGUs. Within this framework, the respective
responsibilities at the different levels are outlined below.
The Program Coordination Office would be responsible for overall implementation
coordination; and promoting the project to secure expansion to new provinces and municipalities across
Mindanao. It will be the secretariat to the Program Management Board (PMB), and be responsible for
putting together proposals for approval by the Board - annual work program and budget; schedule of sub-



- 11-
projects requiring PMB approval. Together with DA-RFU (and where relevant, involving the multi-
sectoral committees at the municipal or community level for the CF component), it would be responsible
for appraisal/approval of subprojects for implementation under the program. It would ensure that
environmental and social guidelines are followed in both developing proposals, and in implementation;
and it would support provinces and municipalities in ensuring the Bank guidelines and procedures are
followed on procurement, disbursements, auditing and overall financial management. It would
consolidate total program accounts, have them audited and facilitate overall program financial
management. It would be responsible for overall Program MIS and Monitoring and Evaluation; TA to
provinces; and putting together periodic monitoring reports, and implementation evaluation at the end of
year 2. Periodically, it will bring together implementation staff from the participating LGUs, to review
progress and identify bottlenecks, if any, being experienced in implementing the project. The PCO would
have no direct implementation related responsibilities. Prior to negotiations; key staff of the PCO were
appointed, including the PCO Head; Heads of the Technical Services, Infrastructure, and Administration
and Finance Sections, and staff of the Institutional Development and M&E Units.
Provincial and Municipal Offices. At the provincial level, a Provincial Project Implementation
Unit (PPIU) would be established within the Provincial Planning and Development Office (PPDO);
existing LGU offices will be used in supporting project implementation. At the municipal level, which is
expected to take the lead in implementation, coordination responsibility would lie with the Municipal
Planning and Development Office (MPDO). Broadly, responsibilities at respective LGU levels would be
the following:
*  Provincial Level. Supporting LGU capacity building, and overall Rural Development Program
Planning; mobilizing the Provincial Development Council (PDC) and concerned municipal mayors
around the MRDP initiatives, and linking with RFUs for technical backstopping; working with
municipalities in consolidating subproject proposals, for which MRDP support is being sought for the
province, for submission to the PCO; linking with participating municipalities, and preparing annual
workplans and budgets for the overall provincial program, and later ensuring implementation
coordination, and overall program M&E; using the network approach for guiding the selection
process for road-related investments; linking with NIA on irrigation related investments; supporting
the procurement process, and overall accounting and financial management of the program. MRDP
Coordinators for the provinces of North Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat, and all staff responsible of
provincial level implementation (in the Planning, Institutional Development, M&E, Financial
Management and Infrastructure Units) in these two provincies were appointed prior to negotiations.
*  Municipal level: Engaging communities in identifying priorities; specific component-related
investment planning and implementation; facilitating the work of multi-sectoral committees in
approving CF sub-projects; contracting with private sector contractors and communities; mobilizing
communities in supporting implementation where appropriate; implementing agreed O&M
arrangements for infrastructure; maintaining financial records: regular monitoring of implementation
progress and maintaining records for the M&E system.
Procurement (Annex 6). Procurement of works for the rural roads/access and rural water supply sub-
components will be undertaken by the respective LGUs; while that for the communal irrigation sub-
component will be undertaken by the NIA. Procurement of works and goods for small community
infrastructure under the communal funds component will be undertaken by the beneficiary communities,
with the involvement of the multisectoral committees and LGUs. The PCO will undertake procurement
of goods and consultants services to be provided at the PCO level and made available to the respective
LGUs for their institutional development and capacity building. Procurement arrangements, which will
follow Bank guidelines, are detailed in Annex 6. Overall, the project will be used as a vehicle to
encourage more efficient contracting arrangements at the LGU level, rather than the present system of



- 12-
force account which often encourages the purchase of large equipment by LGUs which are not always
utilized to their full potential. It will also look to increased community-based contracting in the
implementation of the different components, wherever appropriate.
Flow of Funds (Annex 6). The World Bank funds for the rural infrastructure and community funds for
agriculture development components will be channeled through the Municipal Development Fund Office
(MDFO) to the Project Implementing Agencies (PIA), i.e. Provincial LGUs and central Government
agencies such as the NIA. The funds for the LGU Institutional Support component will be channeled
through the Department of Agriculture, while those for the CMBC component through DENR. The
MDFO will maintain the Bank's Special Account for funds channeled through it. On authorization of
budget allotment by DBM, funds not exceeding three months of estimated expenditures will be advanced
by MDFO out of its own resources to the participating PlAs; this would be subject to the normnal MDFO-
Policy Governing Board approval process. The PIAs will request replenishment of funds from MDF
from time to time based on submission of Statement of Expenditures. MDFO will be responsible for
submission of Withdrawal Applications to the Bank for replenishment of the Special Account. A separate
Special Account will be opened by the Department of Agriculture for the Institutional Support
Component for which, submission of withdrawal applications will be the responsibility of the DA.
Finally, a separate Special Account will be opened by the DENR, for the CMBC component.
Financial Management (Annex 6). An analysis of the financial management capacity of the two initial
provinces and selected municipalities has been completed prior to appraisal. The objective of the financial
management review was to assess whether the systems in place at PIAs do meet the minimum
requirements as required by the Bank's OPIBP 10.02. Overall, it is considered that the financial
management systems at the municipal level presently do not meet the minimum requirements for Bank
projects. At the provincial level, the accounting systems were considered adequate and do meet the
Bank's minimum requirements; however, they are considered ineligible for PMR-based disbursements
due to weaknesses in their budgeting and reporting systems. Consequently, till such time that municipal
financial management capabilities are significantly improved, all financial management activities for the
project will be carried out by the Provinces.
As the proposed project is an APL, and provinces and municipalities will be joining the project as
implementation proceeds, it was not be feasible to carry out financial management assessment for all
prospective participating units at the beginning of the Project. The PCO Head of Finance, in close
collaboration with the MDFO and the relevant BLGF regional offices, shall be responsible for carrying
out financial management assessments of the participating provinces, based on the FMS assessment
models developed for the two initial provinces, and certifying their eligibility to receive project funds
before any loan proceeds are disbursed. In case of Provinces with weak financial management systems,
the PCO head will develop a time-bound action plan to improve the systems. Similarly, the PCO with the
Finance staff of the respective provinces, also, in close collaboration with the MDFO and the relevant
BLGF regional offices, will carry out FMS assessments of participating municipalities and develop
Financial Management Improvement Programs (FMIPs) as a condition of including the municipalities in
the Project. An action plan to complete the FMS assessments of the eleven municipalities identified to
participate in the first year of the Project was agreed at appraisal. The Bank will review annually the
effectiveness of the FMS assessment and the progress in implementing FMIPs for Provinces and
Municipalities.
The funding for the Community Fund for Agricultural Development will be released by the
MDFO directly to the participating municipalities. The municipalities will be responsible for maintaining
separate project accounts to account for the expenditures under these funds. The PCO and the Provincial
finance staff will be responsible for monitoring the management of these funds by the municipalities.



- 13-
Project accounts for recording the LGU Institutional/Implementation Support expenditures will be the
responsibility of DA/PCO.
The PCO shall be responsible for consolidation of audited project financial statements from
LGUs, DA and other PIAs. The MDFO, DENR and the PCO will be responsible for submission of
annual financial statements for their respective Special Accounts for audit by COA. Consolidated
audited financial statements shall be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The proposed program aims to build a strong system for monitoring and
evaluation to: enhance the capacities of involved local and national institutions, as well as rural
communities; and to provide a mechanism for assessing the program's efficiency in delivering its
interventions, as well as the effectiveness of realizing desired objectives. The proposed M&E structure
will be integrated into the various levels (national, program, provincial, municipal and community) of
MRDP implementation. Beginning at the community level, beneficiary monitoring will be an important
element of the structure. At the municipal level, the Municipal Planning and Development Office
(MPDO) will be the focal point for M&E, in close coordination with the offices of the municipal
agriculturist, municipal engineer, and the financial staff. At the provincial level, an M&E unit will be
developed and strengthened within the Provincial Planning and Development Office (PPDO), which will
coordinate M&E activities among the offices of the Provincial Agriculturist, the Provincial Engineer and
the Provincial financial staff. The MRDP's PCO, through its Monitoring, Evaluation and Social
Assessment Unit would consolidate all M&E reports, for submission to DA Central and Regional Field
Offices, the World Bank, as well as other concerned oversight agencies.
Evaluation studies will be done in the midyear implementation and last year of each APL phase.
For APLI, evaluation studies will be conducted at the end of Year 2. As a support to evaluation, baseline
studies will be conducted prior to sub-project implementation. Evaluation studies will be done by
independent institutions (such as local universities, private research groups, etc.) in order to ensure
impartiality of study results.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In designing the proposed project, various alternative approaches were considered. These
included the following options: (i) single commodity-based projects, such as the Small Coconut Farms
Development Project; (ii) sub-sectoral interventions, such as Communal Irrigation; Research and
Extension; (iii) social funds or community-based initiatives; and (iv) area-based rural development
projects targeted at the poor. While the first three approaches could support the overarching objective of
poverty alleviation, two important considerations have guided the decision towards the last mentioned
approach. Firstly, under the Local Government Code, most of the responsibilities for agricultural
development have been devolved to local governments; and secondly, in the absence of effective
transition arrangements having been in place at the time of enacting the Local Government Code, the
institutional weaknesses of many LGUs are posing to be the principal bottlenecks for effective and
sustainable rural development, despite a clear commitment towards this objective at those levels. In
addition, there continues to be lack of clarity in the respective roles and responsibilities of LGUs vis-a-vis
national government agencies, in the context of supporting rural development programs. Within the
context of devolution, the LGUs need to be the focal point for setting priorities, and be responsible for
designing and implementing development programs. The proposed approach will allow for a holistic
approach to poverty alleviation within the farming and fishing communities; with the province being the
largest feasible geographical/political unit, around which project initiatives for both physical investments



- 14-
as well as capacity building can be planned. The use of the Adaptable Program Loan instrument would
allow for longer term perspective being taken in addressing the development issues (particularly on the
institutional side), and will enable a sustained commitment of both the Bank and the Government to the
proposed program.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                        Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings (as of June 1999)
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
* Local Institutional Capacity; Operation and   Second Rural Roads Project  S                S
Maintenance                              (closed; ICR completed)
* Beneficiary participation in irrigation  Second Communal Irrigation       S                S
development and management               Development
*Realigning role of DENR, LGU capacity   Environment and Natural            S                S
building, community involvement in natural   Resources Sector Adjustment
resources mgt.                           Loan
*Water resources planning and management;   Water Resources Development     S                S
watershed management                     Project
*Targeted poverty reduction              Agrarian Reform                    S                S
Communities
*Emergency Post-Conflict Recovery; poverty  SZOPAD Social Fund Project      S                S
alleviation
*Tackling the nexus between poverty and  Community-Based Resource           U                S
natural resources management             Management
Other development agencies
*Targeted Area Development; poverty focus,  European Union: Southern       n.a.             n.a.
micro-project financing                  Mindanao Agricultural
Prograrnme
*LGU Institutional Capacity              CIDA: Local Government             n.a.            n.a.
Support
*LGU Capacity building                   USAID: Govemance and              n.a.             n.a.
Local Democracy (GOLD)
Project
*Farmer linkage with Agri-business;      USAID: Growth with Equity         n.a.             n.a.
enterprise development                  in Mindanao (GEM) Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There are lessons from a variety of sources which have been taken into account, first in defining
the manner in which project preparation would be undertaken, and later in designing the proposed
program. A review of the Bank's experience with rural development projects in the past has highlighted
the following lessons: (i) commitment and ownership to the program is vital, not just by Government, but
by implementing agencies and the rural people directly affected; (ii) project design should draw upon
proven technologies; and the goals must be realistic and precise; (iii) project design must be flexible; (iv)
beneficiary participation, at both the planning stage and during implementation, is necessary; (v) credit
and farm inputs are often critical to success; (vi) arrangement for infrastructure maintenance have to be in
place from the start; (vii) social preparatory activities such as community organization and build up
should precede infrastructure development. A review (by QAG) of selected poverty reduction projects in
East Asia, undertaken in 1998, has also highlighted some important conclusions: the need for greater
focus on addressing the long term institutional implications of a project to ensure sustainability; need for



- 15-
simplifying and increasing flexibility in the Bank's procurement procedures; need for greater analytical
focus in monitoring the project's long term impact, which needs to be built into the project design;
importance of local contribution to financing the project, both from Government and communities, to
ensure ownership and commitment.
Experience with projects in the Philippines reinforce the above conclusions. The Bank has
supported numerous projects in agricultural development, irrigation and rural infrastructure, with varying
degrees of success. The overriding lesson from this experience is that centrally planned and executed
investments in rural infrastructure tend to receive secondary attention from the line ministries at the
center. As a result, delays are endemic, monitoring of quality is limited and sustainability in terms of
maintenance and operation is uncertain at best. The conclusion is that active local participation and
responsibility from planning to design to implementation is essential. This approach is consistent with the
Government's thrust on substantial fiscal decentralization.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
As outlined below, the borrower (including agencies at national and LGU levels) has been closely
involved in project preparation, providing a strong indication of borrower commitment and ownership.
* The proposed project is the result of the work done in close cooperation with the Government in
articulating the Rural Development Strategy, which was discussed with a variety of stakeholders.
*  At identification, the project concept was endorsed by the national level Rural Development Steering
Committee, which was chaired by NEDA, and included representation from the Departments of
Finance, Budget and Management, Agriculture, Environment and Natural Resources, and Agrarian
Reform. DA played an active role in facilitating project preparation (PHRID legal documents were
signed within a week). In briefings by the Bank for the new Government in July 1998, the incoming
Secretary of DA expressed strong support for the project.
* During Consultative Group Meetings in the last three years, the Government appealed to donors to
focus development efforts on Mindanao.
*  Project preparation has been led from Mindanao, with the establishment of the overall Program
Management Office (PMO), in Kidapawan (Mindanao), which was authorized by an Executive Order
signed by the President of the Philippines (EO No. 474) in April 1998. The PMO (which is being
converted into a Program Coordination Office to support implementation) was established by the DA
in August 1998, prior to start of project preparation.
* Local Governments in the two initial provinces expressed strong interest in participating in the
project. The Governors of North Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat established Provincial Task Forces
(some members of which received training in project preparation in Manila in July 1998), which
supported the consultant team, as well as the PCO, in preparing the feasibility study.
*  A Social Assessment was completed in the initial two provinces, in which LGU and PMO staff
participated actively. There was strong interest in discussing the findings of the Social Assessment
among the cross section of LGU officials, at municipality level workshops held during October and
November 1998.
*  The heads of the agencies (NEDA, DILG, DA) from the six regions of Mindanao, and ARMM and
MEDCO representatives met in November 1998, together with PMO staff, and Bank team members,
and agreed on criteria for selecting the first group of provinces in which the program would be
initiated in APLI. It was agreed that in addition to the two initial provinces, Agusan Sur,
Maguindanao and Compostela Valley would be added to APL I; this would involve 4 regions, and
consequently, institutionally facilitate the subsequent geographic expansion of the program.
Importantly, it was agreed that if certain LGUs do not perform, and APL I implementation
performance as a whole suffers as a result, other provinces can be brought into the program.



- 16-
The MRDP Program Management Board, chaired by the Secretary of DA, met in Kidapawan in
November 1998, even prior to completion of project preparation, and confirmed the above
recommendations.
CF Pilots prior to Project Start up. Highlighting the considerable local commitment to the program.
and also to provide an opportunity to better prepare for implementation of the Community Fund
component, two municipal LGUs (Sen. Ninoy Aquino in Sultan Kudarat and Libungan in North
Cotabato), together with the respective provinces, agreed during appraisal to initiate pilot activities, and
have since committed IRA resources from their existing budget totaling Php 1.0 million each, to test out
implementation arrangements for the component. The DA Secretary confirmed that the Department will
match the LGU contribution. Implementation of these pilots has been initiated, with the early activities
focusing on information dissemination, community organizing in the barangays, establishment of the
multisectoral committees, seeking subproject proposals from communities, and the selection process, to
be carried out between August and December 1999.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.
The Bank's close involvement in articulating the Rural Development Strategy, which provides
the underpinnings for the project's design, and the experience it has in supporting community-based rural
development and resource management projects in the Philippines, provides the comparative advantage
for the Bank vis-a-vis the proposed project. A number of bilateral donors have supported capacity
building initiatives for LGUs since 1992. However, in most instances, there have been no funds to
adequately complement training received with real sector investment programs to enable more effective
on the job training. MRDP is designed to overcome this weakness. In addition, over the years, the Bank
has built up considerable experience with projects and programs dealing with rural poverty alleviation
related issues and rural development projects. The lessons from this experience, both positive and
negative, can be brought to bear in designing the proposed program. The use of the Adaptable Program
Loan instrument provides a potentially effective means for ensuring flexibility in project design, and
continuity of a program which needs a long-term approach. Finally, concerning the coastal and marine
biodiversity conservation component, a strong leadership role is required given the magnitude of issues
and the number of donors working in the sector and the impact of investments of other sectors on coastal
resources and marine biodiversity. The Bank is in a unique position to play that role given its experience
in the sector, particularly in the East Asia region, and its understanding of what is needed to manage the
sector.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed analysis are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
ERR= 22 percent
The economic benefits of the project would result from (i) the rehabilitation of provincial and farm to
market roads and the subsequent savings in vehicle operating costs; (ii) rehabilitation and investment in
communal irrigation schemes which will generate an increase in farm productivity; (iii) investments in
improving the supply of potable water resulting in increased time-saving from collecting water and
reduced incidence of water-bome related sickness and disease; and (iv) community-based development
through the availability of community funds. In addition, as indicated earlier, investments to support
local government and other institutional capacity building, as well as to strengthen decentralized and
community-based decision making, will facilitate better implementation of rural development programs,
help foster the creation of social capital, and strengthen staff skills of all implementing agencies at the
local level, with resulting efficiency gains.



- 17-
Methodology: Given the programmatic nature of the project's design, and the fact that local communities
will be driving the choice of sub-projects in many instances (for example on the CF component, as well as
the selection of rural roads, and water supply sub-projects), the analysis is based on a modular approach,
taking the projects prepared for the Year One program as the basis for estimating the expected economic
benefits for the project as a whole. A strong monitoring and evaluation component is being supported
under the project, which will facilitate a better evaluation of projects put forward for consideration, using
the baseline information being collected, and the actual experience of implementation as a basis for later
analysis. In the case of the community funds for agricultural development, it is not possible to know a
priori which micro-projects will be financed, given the demand-driven nature of the component.
Nonetheless, a variety of small-scale community development projects are analyzed in anticipation of the
actual needs of a given barangay as conveyed through responses in the social assessment.
Overall, the proposed project yields an ERR of 22 percent, a net present value of $11.5 million
and a benefit-cost ratio of approximately 1.4 (using a discount rate of 12 percent), over a 20-year period
of analysis. At the component level, the farm-to-market roads investment yields an ERR of 15%; the
proposed investments in communal irrigation development generate an ERR of 39 percent; communal
spring development are expected to result in ERRs of around 11 percent (the estimate excludes significant
social and health benefits to be derived, which are difficult to quantify); and finally, using a range of
possible investments which the communities may undertake under the Community Fund component as a
basis, the ERR for the component is estimated at 31 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis: Switching values were calculated for each component and for the project in its
entirety, and the results confirm that the ERRs are relatively robust to changes in revenues and costs.
Overall, total project costs would need to increase by 26 percent or benefits to reduce by 20 percent, for
the overall ERR to drop down from 22 percent to 12 percent, suggesting that the program is more
sensitive to changes in project benefits than to project costs. As discussed in more detail in the annex, the
respective analyses for different components shows greater sensitivity to changes in revenues than to
costs; to a large extent, this reflects the conservative bias in the assumptions underpinning the analysis.
2. GEF Component - Incremental Cost Analysis (Annex 2e: Attachment 1)
This project will also help develop a model with broader applicability for mainstreaming coastal and
marine biodiversity considerations in a sector with crucial social, economic, and environmental
dimensions in Mindanao, and more broadly in the Philippines. Under the GEF scenario, substantial
information, capacity, and experience will be developed to promote the mainstreaming of marine
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use within the fisheries sector, particularly at the community
level. The GEF approach relies on removing barriers for successful mainstreaming through
demonstration, capacity building, enhancement of the information base for sound decision making, and
policy development in Mindanao as part of the project, where little attention has been paid in the past to
marine resource and biodiversity conservation. The GEF component will support the piloting of
community-based marine sanctuaries to benefit both fishing resources and marine biodiversity; enhance
local capacity for addressing coastal ecosystem management issues; and improve the knowledge base for
sound ecosystem management and decision-making. It would assist in the demarcation and protection of
marine areas with habitats and species of global importance and assist in their sustained management and
protection. Without the CMBC component, these marine biodiversity conservation-related activities
would not be implemented in the project area. The incremental costs are calculated as the difference
between the GEF scenario ($6.05m) and the baseline scenario ($4.8m) and total US$1.25 million.



- 18-
3. Financial (see Annex 5)
Fiscal Impact: The fiscal impact of the project results from various sources. Firstly. the program will
result in an increase in national and LGU fiscal resources being allocated to support rural development in
the initial group of 5 provinces. Over the life of the project, the DA will be required to commit an
estimated US$5.9 million, by way of counterpart funds, while the 5 provinces and 32 municipalities will,
together, be required to provide an estimated US$6.0 million towards the financing of the project. In
taking a programmatic approach, and by supporting ongoing DA programs, it is proposed that the
project's demands on national level counterpart funds should largely be absorbed within the annual
budget envelope. On the part of the LGUs, the demand for counterpart resources would arise in financing
all of the components. The analysis of LGU fiscal resources shows that, at a global level, and taking into
account projects increases in IRA resources, LGUs should be able to meet their financial commitments
towards the project. Their ability to do so in a timely manner, will provide an indication of their
commitment to the program.
In addition to the above, a significant positive fiscal impact can be expected from the project as a
result of improved rural development planning, increased community participation, and new and better
ways of allocating fiscal resources by LGUs while supporting rural development priorities viewed as
important by rural communities. In addition, based on experience elsewhere, greater efficiency in
resource use can be expected with the implementation of the $16.8 million rural roads components by
contract rather than force account. Similarly, given that community-based setting of priorities and
execution of project should be more efficient, the implementation of the CF component should generate
significant efficiency gains in the use of DA and LGU fiscal resources. These benefits should multiply
exponentially, as more LGUs join in implementing the program.
4. Technical.
TIhe project's design has benefited from a detailed review of key technical issues related to the principal
components being supported under the project. In addition, implementation/operations manuals have been
drafted, which will guide the procedures and arrangements to be followed during implementation. The
manuals will continue to be refined, as lessons of experience build up with implementation.
*  For the roads/access component, a detailed review of the roads network of the first two provinces has
been completed, and the year I program identified in close consultation with the LGUs. Detailed
designs and related procurement documents for virtually all of the year I program of works have been
prepared, with the emphasis being on: adopting low cost designs; encouraging the use of labor-based
equipment-supported road construction; designing contracts so as to seek out an increased
participation of women. Selection criteria for the roads to be included under the program have been
confirmed with the participating LGUs; communities will be involved in prioritizing investments
among roads which meet criteria. Commitments will be sought from the LGUs that they will allocate
adequate resources for regular road maintenance, and the implementation agreements would stipulate
that grants provided to LGUs under this project by the national government would be converted into
loans if this commitment is not met.
*  For communal irrigation, the criteria for selecting schemes have been agreed (being largely in line
with the ongoing CIDP II); and the key technical requirements which would need to be confirmed in
the feasibility studies have been outlined (for example, dealing with the availability of water,
suitability of soils, land holding patterns, and the absence of water-borne diseases). While NIA will
continue to be responsible for the technical aspects of design and implementation management, APL I
will aim to develop local capacity by seeking involvement of designated LGU staff to work alongside
NIA during implementation.



- 19-
*  For rural water supply, water quality issues and satisfactory community-based institutional
arrangements (RWSA/BWSA) will underpin decisions on individual projects.
Institutional arrangements have been designed, and necessary technical assistance provided under the
project, to ensure the technical soundness of proposals which will be brought forward for financing by
local governments and communities, during the implementation phase of the program.
5. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Department of Agriculture, Department of Environment and Natural Resources
and participating Local Government Units.
b. Project Management: The detailed implementation arrangements outlined earlier, are guided by the
objective of using MRDP to reinforce the implementation of the LGC; and bring the DA Regional Field
Units' (RFUs) technical backstopping role better into focus with the LGU's direct planning and
implementation role. As mentioned earlier, this is a challenging task in the Philippines, and the ability to
realize these objectives depends on the commitment of local institutions. In the Letter of Sector
Development Objectives, the DA Secretary has reaffirned DA's commitment to pursue these objectives
(Annex I a); furthermore, participating provinces will be required to provide a similar commitment, as
already done by the first two participants (North Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat) in their respective Letters
of Development Objectives submitted to the Bank prior to negotiations. In this context, an important
feature of the proposed project management arrangements is that, firstly the Program Coordination Office
was established in Mindanao (and not Manila) even prior to the start of detailed project preparation, and
hence has been involved in the entire process. Secondly, staff from the local governments too worked
with the project preparation tearn, and also participated in the social assessment work; this has contributed
to building local capacity and ownership of the project, and will facilitate overall project management
once implementation commences.
6. Social:
During project preparation, a wide ranging Social Assessment was carried out in the first two project
provinces (Annex I b); it is now being initiated in the three additional APL I provinces. The Social
Assessment in North Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat Provinces conducted a total of 1,350 household
surveys from 90 barangays in 20 municipalities, and 120 focus group discussions from 60 barangays
involving some 2,000 rural community residents. Barangays were selected such that they represented the
various types of agro-ecological systems found in Mindanao: mountainous, rolling, lowland, marshlands,
and coastal. The Social Assessment was conducted with the active involvement of the LGUs, which
provided the counterpart resources and staff. The latter worked effectively with the two area-based
institutions which implemented the Social Assessment: a non-government organization, CADTEC, which
was responsible for conducting the focus group discussions, and the University of Southern Mindanao,
which was responsible for the household surveys. A series of participatory planning workshops were
conducted in various municipalities where the key findings of the Social Assessment were presented to
municipal and barangay management and legislative officials.
As indicated earlier, the main priorities of most people were for infrastructure, followed by agricultural
inputs, and lastly by other basic social services. Women in general. mentioned health services and water
and sanitation facilities as their more important priorities. Indigenous peoples households were concerned
about physical accessibility, draft animals and their children's education. The findings from the social
assessments in the two provinces provide the underpinnings for the design of the project.



- 20-
Indigenous Peoples. Indigenous People's policy guidelines have been developed for the Program which
will guide the participation of the indigenous population in Mindanao. This part of the Philippines is
home to many IP groups, many of whom are poor and will be eligible for program funding, particularly
under the Community Fund component. The Indigenous People's policy guidelines for MRDP closely
follows the program developed by Cotabato Province known as "Integrated Provincial Management
Assistance and Policy Support Program for the Indigenous People..." which conforms to the Bank's OD
4.20. The IP guidelines are included in the Operations Manual, and have been endorsed by the DA;
project staff, particularly those in the Community Fund component unit, will be provided orientation on
Bank OD 4.20 and training on development for indigenous populations.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Given the nature of the components, land acquisition and
demolition of houses/structures and displacement of persons are not anticipated in MRDP. All roads will
follow current alignments, thus minimizing potential environmental impacts and land acquisition. Should
these be necessary, e.g., in rehabilitation of infrastructure (including any minor right of way adjustments
for roads or irrigation canals), they would be kept to a minimum; for new communal irrigation projects,
the lands required for the canal system will be acquired in consultation with the benefiting communities
and will be consistent with existing practice under CIDP II. A Policy Framework for Land Acquisition,
Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons (Policy Framework) has been prepared for
MRDP and it lays out the guidelines to be followed in the event of land acquisition necessitated and
resettlement and rehabilitation of persons affected by subprojects under MRDP. However, a recently
issued Administrative Order No. 50 (AO 50) limits the Government's ability to initially offer
compensation to landowners at zonal value of the land plus ten percent, which amount may or may not
equal replacement cost of the land. Landowners that do not accept the offer may request court
adjudication. Notwithstanding AO 50, and for the purposes of MRDP, the Government has it to establish
a procedure that would ensure that Project Affected Persons (PAPs) are compensated at replacement costs
for their land prior to the displacement of such persons by project works. To reflect this agreement, the
Government has adopted a revised the Policy Framework which sets out the procedure by which the
difference, if any, between zonal value plus ten percent and replacement cost will be paid to project
affected persons accepting the Government's offer prior to their displacement.
7. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category    [ J A   [X] B   []C
The project is assigned a "B" environmental classification. MRDP will focus primarily on the
rehabilitation of small rural infrastructure, and other than the small component proposed for new
communal irrigation projects (covering an estimated 850 ha), will not enter into any substantial new
construction. Environmental assessment will be undertaken on all infrastructure projects, although given
the nature and small-size of sub-projects, no significant adverse environmental impacts are anticipated.
Road improvements would largely follow existing alignments, and irrigation works would usually benefit
areas where rice is already grown. Environmental Impact assessments with mitigation plans, where
relevant, would be submitted for review and clearance by DENR. Institutional arrangements to ensure that
environmental compliance is followed during the implementation phase have been incorporated in the
Operations Manual. For the first-year program, an environmental assessment has been undertaken for the
roads and water supply sub-components, through the PCO; NIA will complete a similar assessment for
the proposed irrigation component. The assessment for roads indicate that most of the impacts are not
significant, and that the impacts during the implementation stage will be temporary. Similarly, for the
water supply activities, there are small or no adverse impacts. Where appropriate, mitigation measures
have been recommended and will be acted upon during project implementation.



- 21-
8. Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
A strong participatory approach has been taken in preparing the project, which will also be pursued
during the implementation of the project; in order to get the communities engaged in the process, the
program of social assessments will continue with the new provinces and municipalities. The preparation
process endeavored to get rural communities involved in identifying the key issues and constraints which
they face, and which need to be tackled to improve the livelihood of rural people. Importantly, the
findings were then discussed at workshops involving officials from LGUs (municipal and provincial), so
as to engage them in the design of the program. Overall, the design of the program aims to reinforce the
role of key stakeholders in guiding the allocation of resources for rural development; in particular, the
Community Fund component will bring together rural communities, LGUs and the DA in a manner which
will strengthen participation/consultation in supporting rural development, and in the implementation of
the LGC. In addition, it is envisaged that other stakeholders, such as NGOs, local technical and academic
institutions, etc. will get involved in guiding the implementation of some components, in particular the
CF, as well as in supporting initiatives aimed at enhancing agricultural productivity.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of the proposed operation is being pursued from various fronts. Firstly, and most
importantly, institutional sustainability is being pursued through the highly consultative process followed
during the project preparation, which has confirmed LGU commitment and interest in the program (they
have set up local teams, and contributed staff and other resources to project preparation), and has also
involved local communities. This will be reinforced during implementation, with the implementation of
local capacity building measures, both at the technical level, as well as in rural development planning.
Secondly, institutional ownership to the program can be expected to be strong, since LGUs and the
benefiting communities will be contributing towards the cost of the different components, either from the
LGU's IRA resources, or as equity contribution from the beneficiaries. Finally, at a technical level, the
project will be supporting the involvement of appropriate technical institutions available locally, as well
as national government agencies, to work with the LGUs, in implementing measures aimed at the better
and more efficient management of land and water resources, including improved natural resources
management in the uplands.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
While the program's design is not complex, the proposed implementation period of three and a half years
is ambitious, for a program of this size. The principal reason for opting for this shorter timeframe is that
good preparatory work has already been done, both at the LGU level, as well as at the level of the
communities. As outlined earlier, project preparation has been carried out locally in Mindanao following
a highly participatory process, involving DA representatives from the RFUs, the LGUs and the
communities; in addition, the Program Coordination Office is already in place. Given the nature of the
program, involving NGAs (DA and DENR), LGUs, rural communities, it will be important for the Bank
to commit supervision resources beyond existing norms, particularly during the first 18 to 24 months, in
order to facilitate an effective start up of this program. Risks which need to be managed from the
Government's side are discussed below.



- 22-
Risk                     Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Development Objective
Inadequate LGU and beneficiary commitment to    M        Continued support under the program would be
O&M.                                                     conditional on provision of LGU resources to
ensuring satisfactory O&M.
Poor technical or engineering support           N        Generally, for the types of investments being
forthcoming locally.                                     proposed, skills are available in the LGUs. These
will be further enhanced through implementation
support, on-the-job capacity building, and needed
TA provided under the project.
Communities are not fully brought into the      M        The social assessment process, and the
planning/implementation process; political               subsequent workshops held at municipal level,
establishment does not actively participate in the       have demonstrated the willingness of the political
process.                                                 establishment to pursue a participatory approach
involving communities. Project design, in terms
of making year 2 allocations for the community
funds focus on getting communities involved
with LGUs.
Escalation of civil strife in Mindanao, should  M        There is provision for making changes to the
there be a breakdown of the peace agreement.             participating LGUs, to enable project to move to
areas where implementation is possible.
However, a major breakdown will adversely
impact ability to realize development objectives.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate demand from LGUs for subprojects;    M        The substantial consultation process during the
willingness to borrow from the national                  preparation phase has confirmed strong LGU
government.                                              interest; and Year I program is firm. Given
poverty incidence and low class of the LGUs, it is
proposed that most of the Loan funds should
come as grants (the percentage can be changed
during implementation, based on experience).
Counterpart funding from both national          M        Project funding as part of the draft FY00 budget
government, and the LGUs is not provided on an           has been confirmed; LGUs will be required to
adequate and timely manner.                              contribute upfront before accessing funds from
the MDF. Bank will also need to be pro-active,
together with other stakeholders, to secure budget
resources in later years.
Changes in elected officials in LGUs (possible  M        Project supports capacity building at both LGU
every 3 years), reducing capacity and                    and community level, to enhance institutional
commitment to the program                                sustainability; Bank will need to be pro-active in
securing continued political ownership at the
LGU level.
PMO does not have competent staff               M        Satisfactory staffing of the PCO is a condition of
negotiations.
Overall Risk Rating                             M        As part of an APL, proposed project intends to
test out approaches, before scaling up program
geographically across Mindanao. M&E is being
designed to support adaptations and changes, as
implementation proceeds. Overall, successful
implementation, with more effective LGU roles,
and more efficient and community-based use of
DA budgetary resources has potentially very
significant pay off.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



- 23-
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
For the Loan Agreement, the conditions of effectiveness include the following: (i) The DA shall have
concluded Implementation Agreements covering the year I programs with the provinces of North
Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat; (ii) a Memorandum of Agreement shall have concluded between the
Department of Finance and the DA; (iii) endorsement/adoption of revised sections of the Operations
Manual dealing with the Community Fund, Financial Management, and the Resettlement Policy
Framework.
For the GEF Grant Agreement, the conditions of effectiveness include the following: (i) The Loan
Agreement will have been declared effective; (ii) a Memorandum of Agreement shall have concluded
between the DENR and DA, setting forth their cooperating and coordinating arrangements; (iii) the
Implementation Manual should have been adopted and put into effect.
2. Assurances obtained at Negotiations:
Program Implementation: (i) Overall program implementation to be in line with the provisions in the
Operations Manuals, which includes criteria and process for sub-project selection; (ii) Project affected
persons coming under the purview of OD4.30 (involuntary resettlement) due to a proposed subproject,
shall have been resettled, compensated and/or rehabilitated, prior to the concerned-subproject being
implemented; (iii) Each LGU to allocate funds and other resources, and then carry out a program of
routine maintenance on agreed sections of roads; (iv) LGUs to disseminate information (including
maintaining bulletin boards) on all CF sub-project proposals (both approvals and rejections) submitted
within its jurisdiction, and on status of implementation; (v) Provincial LGUs, in association with
MDFO/BLGF, to carry out financial management assessment of participating municipal LGUs within
their province, within 12 months ofjoining the program.
Project Management: (i) Project Management Board, chaired by the Secretary DA, and a Program
Coordination Office within DA, and located in Mindanao, to be maintained throughout the
implementation period of the project. (ii) PCO to prepare annually, not later than March 31, an annual
work plan, including the allocation of counterpart budgetary resources from the national and local
governments. (iii) Participating provinces will establish and maintain a Provincial Project Implementation
Unit (PPIU), while the Municipal Planning and Development Office (MPDO) will be responsible for
coordinating implementation at the municipal level. (iv) For supporting the implementation of the CF
component, as well as to prioritize the road rehabilitation program, each municipality shall establish and
maintain a multisectoral committee.
Monitoring and Reporting: (i) Each LGU to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the
implementation and achievements of the projects, in line with agreed performance indicators. (ii) The
PCO will submit semi-annual reports for the periods January to June, and July to December, on progress
on implementation, to be submitted to the Bank by September 30 and March 31 following the respective
periods each year. These will be based on separate reports prepared by each participating LGU. (iii) The
PCO will ensure that a detailed evaluation of program implementation is undertaken, and a consolidated
report submitted to the Bank by March 31, 2002; the report to be jointly reviewed with the Bank by June
30, 2003. (iv) ICR to be prepared by the Borrower six months prior to closing of the project.
Financial Reporting: (i) A financial management system shall be maintained, including records, accounts,
and financial statements, involving all LGUs and other implementation units (such as the PCO and NIA);
consolidated for the project as a whole, and together with the Special Accounts, audited annually;
certified copies of finandial statements to be forwarded to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year.



- 24-
H. Readiness for Implementation
Engineering design documents for year I road program, and procurement documents for the proposed
works (as well as for goods) were completed prior to negotiations. Engineering design documents for the
proposed rehabilitation of communal irrigation schemes will be completed soon after negotiations, using
loan funds to be available under retroactive financing. In addition, a pilot for the Community Fund
component is being implemented, using LGU and DA resources, which will facilitate the later
implementation of the component. At the institutional level, the PCO is already in place (with staffing
substantially completed prior to negotiations), and staff from the year I participating LGUs, who will be
part of the Provincial Project Implementing Unit (PPIU), have been actively engaged in the project
preparation process. The Operations Manual for guiding implementation has been endorsed by DA prior
to negotiations, which will be adapted from the lessons of experience.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Rahul Raturi
CountryDiretor:  ffrey Fox
Country Director: Vinay K. Bhargava



- 25-
Annex 1
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Poverty Reduction by     lmplementation of targeted and  Periodic surveys;     Political commitment and
accelerating Environmentally   priority rural poverty alleviation    midterm and final  financial support to
Sustainable Rural           programs.                      project evaluations.   actively pursue programs
Development.                                                                      and policies targeted at
Improved delivery of services in                      poverty alleviation.
support of better defined rural
development goals and targets.
GEF Operational Program
Goal:                       Prevalence of species of global  Semi-annual assessment  Improved management
Conservation and restoration   importance in the project areas.    of marine ecology at  and conservation of
of Coastal, Marine and                                     project sites and changes  natural marine and
Freshwater Ecosystems.                                     in fisheries productivity  fisheries resources would
and efficiency.        concurrently improve
incomes from resultant
effects.
Program Purpose:                                                                  (From Purpose to Goal)
Improved incomes and food    Evidence of a sustainable     Evaluation Reports from  National Government will
security in the targeted rural    declining trend in rural poverty    each phase of the  sustain political and
communities within the 24   incidence within the targeted  program. Baseline      budgetary commitment to
provinces of Mindanao, from    communities by the end of APL2.  information to be  supporting devolution;
implementation of better                                   generated prior to start   APL approach seen as a
targeted and sustainable    Increase in employment         of program.             vehicle to support
agricultural and fisheries-  opportunities in targeted areas, and                  programmatic
related rural development and  in the incomes of participating                    implementation.
marine biodiversity         households.
conservation programs, and                                 NEDA sponsored,         APL Program developed
improved LGU institutional,   LGU-NGA partnership          periodic and            initially is acceptable to,
management and financial    institutionalized, and increased  independent reviews of   and can be successfully
systems.                    public funding for             LGU development plans  replicated in other
LGU/community managed rural    and accomplishment     provinces and
Phase I (APL 1) -           development programs, consistent  reports.             municipalities.
Initiation of program in    with AFMA/national agricultural
selected provinces          development plans.             Periodic FIES Reports    General economic stabilitN
in the country/regions, anc
Phase II (APL 2) -                                                                 peace and order
Geographic expansion across                                                        maintained in Mindanao.
Mindanao                   Increased LGU and community
involvement in rural development  DENR would coordinate  Demonstration effect of
Phase HI (APL 3) -          and marine biodiversity        periodic independent    community-based
Deepening and               conservation program design,   reviews of development  management efforts under



- 26-
Institutionalization          M&E and implementation.          plans, actual physical   APLI would provide
progress, and           useful examples and
Phase IV (APL 4) -                                             verification of reported   lessons learned for
Securing Program                                               progress.               replication in other project
Sustainability                                                                          areas during subsequent
Phases.
APLI - Project Development                                                              (Objective to Purpose)
Objective:
Institutional, financial and  At least 50 percent of participating  Sangguniang Bayan   No major natural
community-based planning      LGUs (provincial and municipal)   resolutions             calamities, or drastic
and management systems       adopt agricultural development    LGU directives           changes in weather (such
implemented and refined for    plans, which also incorporate                            as earthquakes, excessive
supporting rural development   outcome of consultation process    Implementation of     typhoons, prolonged
within targeted agricultural  with communities, and local and    specific studies to    droughts, el nino. etc.)
and fishing communities, in 5   national technical agencies.   monitor progress;
to 6 provinces, covering at                                    beneficiary surveys.
least 30 municipalities.     DA budgetary allocations under
AFMA/national agric.             Baseline information on
Improved LGU capability for   development plans for the        APLI communities and
agricultural development     participating LGUs integrated into  areas to be generated
planning, implementation and   the latter's respective financial and  prior to start up of
M&E, in partnership with     investment plans.                 project implementation.
national government agencies
(DA), and local technical     Increase in agricultural
institutions.                productivity - corn and palay
yields in target communities;
Responding to community      increase in area planted to
priorities for key rural      diversified crops; reduced post
infrastructure.              harvest losses.
Household incomes in targeted
communities increased; at least 75
percent of the direct beneficiaries
of the project improve incomes by
at least 30 percent by the end of
APL2.
Project Global Objective:
To conserve and restore       Increased involvement of local   The project would        The financial and fisheries
globally important coastal    stakeholders in partnerships with    conduct periodic     productivity benefits to the
habitats and related marine   public sector agencies for planning  evaluations of changes    communities and
biodiversity in Mindanao by    resource allocation and use, and in  to marine ecology   individuals that result fron
mainstreaming biodiversity   conservation of coastal resources   (biodiversity) and     marine sanctuary and
and marine ecosystem          and biodiversity through increased  fisheries productivity  biodiversity conservation
conservation in community     (I) number of active locally based   and efficiency at and in   and management would
development and in the coastal  planning and development       the vicinity of the      provide the incentive for
fisheries sector.             committees; (2) number of        project sites that result   continued sustainable
households participating in      from project             management of these
forrnulating decisions for planning, intervention.        resources.
implementing, monitoring and
evaluating local development



- 27-
interventions; and (3) amount of
community resources (cash and
non-cash) being contributed for the
construction, maintenance and
rehabilitation of local
infrastructure facilities.
Outputs:                                                                             (Outputs to Objective)
Rural Infrastructure:
* improved rural access,    * Rehabilitate about 460 km of   Bi-annual Monitoring    Insufficient LGU and
through rehabilitation of rural  rural and 40 km of provincial  Reports               beneficiary commitment tc
roads, trails and bridges;   roads. Will lead to: increased                          O&M.
traffic; access to larger number of   Reports of Annual
markets for farm inputs and     Implementation           Poor technical or
outputs, located along/near road    Progress, for Program  engineering support
sectors/bridges being rehabilitated,  Management Board  forthcoming locally.
changes in prices for farm inputs   (PMB); Minutes of PMB
and outputs, reduced travel time    Meetings            Communities are not fully
from farm to market, and reduced                        brought into the planning
goods/passenger transport costs.    Process and Results  and implementation
M&E Reports (PRME)   process; political
* improved irrigation for small  * Rehabilitate about 3,500 ha and                   establishment in LGUs
farmers, from rehabilitated  construct 1,500 ha of new        Detailed program        does not actively
communal irrigation systems;  communal irrigation systems. Will  evaluation after the end   participate in the process.
result in: increased irrigation  of year 2 of APL.
service areas in target provinces;                       Escalation of civil strife in
higher cropping intensities, and  Bank Supervision       Mindanao, should there be
crop yields; increased farm     Mission Reports          a breakdown of the peace
incomes.                                                agreement.
* rural water supply and     * Develop around 130 new spring
sanitation systems for targeted  water systems. Will result in
communities;                increased number of households in
project municipalities with access
to safe water, lesser incidence of
water borne disease, lesser kms
walked by water bearers in
collecting water
* enhanced maintenance of    * Sustained increase in LGU
infra by LGUs and            budgets for maintenance;
communities.                improved condition of road
network (change in proportion of
good-fair-bad roads).
Community Funds for Agric.
Development:
* Implementation of economic  * Annual disbursement of P2.5m
investments based on         each, in 32 municipalities, to
community defined priorities,  support community-based projects.
incl. those for supporting   Increased employment in target



- 28-
improvements in agricultural   areas, from implementation of
and fisheries productivity.  rural community initiatives;
increase in number of women and
IP communities involved in local
decision making bodies; increase
in the number of households
involved in planning,
implementing, monitoring and
evaluating local community
priorities lower rates of
unemployment among males and
females; LGU incorporates
community needs into plans; DA
programs more responsive to
community needs.
Institutional Capacity
Building:
* Enhanced rural development  * LGU staff and community
planning, implementation and  leaders trained (formally and
M&E capabilities within     informally); technical skills
LGUs; closer interaction    upgraded.
between DA at national level,  Rural development plans adopted
and LGUs, and rural         and monitored by LGUs, based on
communities at local level.    community needs, analysis of
Improved interaction between  resource base, and poverty
LGUs and local              distribution. On farm
technical/research institutions.  demonstrations of technology to
respond to small farm issues;
better linkage with local
technical/research institutions.
Increasing percent of national
budget expenditures within
participating LGUs being
integrated into the latter's annual
plans.
MIS system developed; and PRME
implemented. Community-based
monitoring implemented.
* Strengthened capacity to  * At least 90 staff from key
meet micro-finance and rural   cooperatives, and 80 from MFIs
credit needs.               trained and loan agent scheme
piloted in the 5 provinces, one
successful coop transformed into a
rural people's bank.
Improved/increased delivery of
rural credit - purpose and maturity
diversified in targeted
communities.



- 29-
* Improved Financial        * Train LGU staff and develop
Management, to support more  financial management and M&E
efficient rural development  capacity. FMIP implemented, and
program implementation and   bank reconciliation completed in
monitoring.                 all participating municipalities.
* Data collection and recording
system established.
Conservation of coastal
marine biodiversity:
*Conduct of a resource      *Direct involvement of local
assessment survey;          communities and people's
organizations in the establishment  *Data collected and  *Partnerships would be
of protected coastal areas through   tabulated for efficient    formed and between and
*Application of a participatory  participatory activities.  analysis with community  capacities of public and
planning and management                                     participation.          private sector agencies
process for identification and                              Reports of meetings and  (individuals/organizations
development of protected    *Number of incidents of illegal    progress with the   that would foster improvec
areas;                      activities reported and consistently  establishment of  marine resource
acted upon and resolved by      protected areas.       management, and
*Strengthening of local marine  enforcement agencies.                              biodiversity conservation.
resources surveillance by                                   *Community and
coastal communities linked to  *Continued collection and    enforcement agency
existing enforcement agencies; evaluation of data on marine  reports of intervention
ecology and changes in         into illegal and
*Resource monitoring and    community well-being.           destructive activities.
evaluation program;
*Number of new employment       *Consultant/NGO/DEN
opportunities created that do not    R joint reports on
have adverse impacts upon marine  progress with
*Assistance to the          biodiversity and natural resources.  implementation and
development of alternative                                  resultant impacts.
income generating (AIG)
activities                                                  *Records of new jobs
created.
Program Management:
Program Implementation and
Coordination mechanisms     * MRDP organizational structure
tested, and adapted for larger   established at all operating levels
program implementation.     (PCO, and in LGUs and
participating communities); key
operations manuals developed,
tested and adapted to experience.
LGU political establishment fully
engaged.



- 30-
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each                               (Components to
components: (see Annex 2 for  component)                                           Outputs)
project description)
Rural Infrastructure
subprojects:                                                Quarterly monitoring
and Progress Reports    Inadequate demand from
.  Rural access/roads       US$16.9 million                                        the LGUs for the
*  Small scale irrigation   US$ 8.5 million                 Financial Monitoring   subprojects; insufficient
.  Rural water supply       US$ 1.4 million                 Reports                willingness to borrow
from the national
Bank Supervision       government.
Program of targeted Poverty    US$ 6.5 million              Reports
Interventions - Community                                                          Overall, counterpart
Fund Program for LGUs/rural                                                        funding is not provided on
communities, to support                                                            an adequate and timely
agricultural development.                                                          manner by both national
and local governments.
Coastal/Marine Biodiversity    US$ 1.7 million
Protection (GEF)                                                                   Changes in elected
officials (possible every
Implementation Support and    US$ 3.2 million                                      three years), reducing
capability building for LGUs,                                                      capacity and commitment
rural communities, and for                                                         to the program.
improving DA/LGU linkage.
Overall Program Management US$ 2.8 million                                         Program Management
and Coordination.                                                                  Office is not fully
operational and staffed
with appropriate staff.



- 31-
Annex 1 (a)
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Letter of Development Program
Republic of the Philippines
5, ; DEPARTMENT OF AGRICUl TUREF'/-"    /    TIli i\CiT' 
OfficeoftheSecretaryR 17 .2   )91         fJi                         rm r
___     * jtlEliptical Road, Diliman, Quezon CitU ! -llN R  
June22, 1999                                                       w 1
VINAY K BHARGAVA                                      y  Y        f---
Country Director, Philppines
East Asia and Pacifc Region
23'd Floor, Taipan Place,
Emerald Aven, Ortigas Center
Mandaluyong City
Subject:    Letter of Sector DeelopentObjectives
Mindanao Rural Devek,pment Progam
Dear   fr'.  /3
The Governments Medium Term Phlippine Development Plan (MTPDP) for 1999-
2004 highiigt the foldwing objecives: alleviating poverty' modernizg agricultre;
improvng the delivery of basic social development sevices; infrastructure devebpment
partijairly in th rural areas; te pursuit of pnvatzaion, derugibaon, lberaizaion and
globalizon, while maintainirg economic stability, and reformig governnce. Within the
conted of the MTPDP, the Eshada admnsion accords a partiularly high priority to
agrcAure and runr  development wich is viewed as  ticai to Dreazn t  Govements
objectives of reducing powrty, gerag v      empoyment aid ensmu   food secuty.
This task is particularly challenging in Mindno, which accout for just over a third of the
total lad area of he country, has a poputon of 16 million (24 pent of te countys total
in 1995), and which has a vey  high incidence o rral poerty (61 percent in 1994).
Seventen of the isand's 24 provinces rank among the couts poormst and over 70
percnt of the islands 437 municpaities .fal within the 4" aid    c dass under DOF's
classifation based on income. In mrlate terms, the region has been less successful in
bringing down the levels of poverty over the past two decades, when compared wfth the other
regions of the country and the nral sector in Mindanao has remaied in a state of
sagnatom. Yet with its dimac and geoguplc adoP  m  Midrao holds iendmus
potenials and has distinct comparabve advantes for agriclture and fisheries sector
growth, which if develped, could serve as a stmng foundation for sustaiable grwth of the
natbonal economy.
The above situation has arisen due to many factors. Historically, goverment
expenditure in Minnao has been low as compared to its population and land area.
Infrasure expenditre hi Mindanao averaged only 20 prcent of the total country's outlays
during the period between 1982 to 1993, resultin poorer availability of, among others,
rual feeder roads and irrigation facilities. Apart from inadequate expenditures on rural
infrastrucbure, the major constaints to development in rural Mindanao are poorly functioning
mral markets and insufficient post-harvest support and facilities, limited reach of agcuttural
developmet services, difft in accessing production credit, paricjaly by smaliholders
and those not having ibt to band, and ill-prepared LGUs for nrual devetopen pianing and
implementation. In addition, te Department of Agriculture has not ahiays been effeclive in
providing technical support to LGUs, and communities have not been integraed into the
desrn-makong processes of the LGUs and the DA whije identiyng pnontes for Jnvestment
dc, 64/f
1_44,e9
' n4. i 
*      C   _ Z EAfi,f, MI,g



- 32-
The Philippine Governrment attaches high prionty to the devebopment of Mindanao as part of
the peace process, and to realize its potentials and contribubons to the national economy.
In addressing the above issues, the Government recognizes that poverty alleviation
and rural development are ong drawn processes that require sustained support And while
most of the r      isponsbtes for agricultural and rural development have been devolved to
LGUs under the Local Government Code, the institutonal weaknesses of LGUs continue to
be the prindpai bottlenecks for effective and sustaiable rual development  Building
instituonal cac  at the loca level, and ensuring sustauiab*ity also requres nurturing over
a blog peiod. The Adaptable Prograrn Loan fadihty of the  aorld Bak offers an opport
to meet the spedcf, uniqL e and long term requirmeits of rral devebpment and
insti.rtienailization; and the Government would like to avail of this facility for the Mhndaro
Rural DevebplmenT Program. Phase I of the program has almeady been endorsed by ICC
Tediical Board, as weUl as the Cabinet Comrrmitee for Investment Coordination and the
NEDA Board.
The design of tee proposed MRDP responds to the key findings and
recommendations i t  recently copld Rural Develpmnt Sbategy for achieving rural
growth and poverty alleviation, on which there is agrewnent between te Government and
te World Bnk and which also benefrtd from consuitations with ntebrs of cvil society. A
long term apprach is necessary for secLing sustained grwth in toe agncult seor,
focused on s    hingig rural pubbc invstment progams (supportin the hmpemntaio of
the Agriulue and Fishewes Modemnizaton Act), uiprovig the institonal fimewoel which
supports rual development (reforcing the implementaion of the Local Government Code),
and ensurng tV  rural communites are dosely involved in the design and iplemantion of
ptc investment programs intended fir imroing their Iveliood. Taken together, these
initaves aim to support the Governents key objetes of taddkng poverty and ensuning
food securty. The program msponds to the prority pbaced by the Government on Mintbnao,
which accounts for nearty a third of the counrys nrral poor, and has comparative advatges
and an untapped poentil for rasasin agricultural sector gmh trditionally, the isand is
vowed as te food aid rf maletial supplief1r fth country.
In preparing the program, an effort has been made to seek the di  input of the
participating koca govenu ertr and communites from an earty stage. The Governmen
kinifd teo first t  prowics and 11 municipalities, based on agreed crit  (which
evhmp        LGU cass, ifs poverty profile, and the relative importance of the agrigture sector
to the provicia economy), on the basis of which project preparabon has been conducted,
addtoa provinces are being added to the program following citena detaied below. A wide
ranging Social Assessment has been complWed in the initial sto provinrcs which has
highlighted community concerns and priorities and which has guided the design of the
pram. Project prepration has been led from, and carned out entirely wihin Mindanao
(with ft establihert of the Program Management Office pnor to start of preparbon work:
this will diarge to Program Caordination Office once implementation commrenes). In
addition, the providal LGUs established courterpart teams which, togetr with staff from
the muniipal LGUs, have worked on project preparation.
Recognzing that poverty alleviation requirs sustained long termn involent as
does institutional capacity buikingr, Fe MRDP is designed as a bng term APL Program,
coverin 12 to 15 years, involving 4 APLs (each covering between 3 to 4 years). At the end
of the second year of each APL (or once 60 percent of te Bank Loan for that APL is



- 33-
disbursed, if earlier), a detailed mkierm evaluation of implemeration would be canied out,
with a view to making adaptaions if necessary, and for guiding the design of te next APL A
strong focus on M&E is an integral part of the APL's design, and a comrporent to strengten
local LGU capacity, as well as to support commntity based M&E, is included in APLI. This
approach emphasized learning by doing, which will allow for contimuous adjrents to
prgect design based on lessons learned from implmentaion, early idenication of
problems and risks, ard the implementation of cotrecti measre as geographic covage
expands. In addrition, its is proposed that participating pmvnialmuncpul LGU weaud
receive a declining percent of the Bank Loan on grant teffns (i.e. increasing oDsts to be borne
by the LGU). as it contiues its invovnent in succeeding APLs. The proposed design of the
program is set out in the attached annex
We believe hat te MRDP, as we have designed it in dose corsuaion with Xt rual
communites, pwaitg LGUs and the WoVrld Bank, wd pnTide excellent opporhurwis
for both te nabonar govemnmert agencies and th LGUs, for  inforng the intent and
implementation of the 1991 Local Govern t Code, and for allVtg povt in the rural
areas wfflin te ovemall conteXt of enrdncng agdncitLra and  shewes prnx1ucivty in
Mindanao  It is then impeatbve hat the devlpment efforts W  re currety doing in
Mindanao be immediately supported by te poveny tageted inbrventions of the MRDP.
Very truty yours,
S 9Z;J. VA% X M
Secreary



- 34-
Annex To Letter of Sector Development Program
APL 1: Would initiate the program in a relatively small group of about 5 provinces, for testing out and
initiating a process of engaging LGUs and rural communities in designing and implementing a rural
development program, in close association with the concerned national government agency, developing
an implementation strategy, and establishing a mechanism for scaling up the program in the succeeding
APLs.
APL 2: Would provide for expanding the geographic coverage of the program across Mindanao, to
provinces and municipalities which meet eligibility criteria; the program would be deepened in the APLI
provinces by enlarging the scale, and also ensuring that all eligible municipalities are included.
Consideration could be given to including a rural communities health component.
Triggers for moving on to APL2.
*  Project Preparation to be initiated once 60 percent of the APLI Loan has been disbursed. Social
Assessment of the next group of provinces, which express interest in participating and meet eligibility
criteria, to be completed.
* APL2 Loan to be approved by the Bank once 80 percent of APL I Loan is disbursed, and the balance
is substantially committed.
* Institutional arrangements for implementation tested out and adapted based on experience;
multisectoral committees for the CF operating satisfactorily.
*  Overall satisfactory performance, using the mid term evaluation as a basis for assessment (key
elements for assessment will include adequacy and timeliness in providing counterpart funds in APLI
LGUs; improved arrangements for routine road maintenance sourced from increased budgetary
allocations by LGUs; completion of at least 60 percent of proposed infrastructure program in a
particular province for its continued involvement in APL2; improved rural development planning and
allocation of budgetary resources by LGUs, with community involvement; greater integration of DA
programs into LGU RD plans, synchronized through the regular planning and budgeting process and
schedules).
Criteria for selecting new provinces where project preparation can be initiated for APL2 are given below:
APL 3: Would continue support for all provinces covered under APL2, and complete the coverage across
Mindanao, to the extent that some provinces or municipalities remain outside the program due to their
inability to meet eligibility criteria. It would focus on deepening the program by ensuring that all eligible
municipalities are fully engaged.
APL 4: Would focus on reinforcing the key thrusts underpinning the overall program, and in securing
both program and more importantly, institutional sustainability of the developments undertaken in support
of increasing agricultural production and alleviating rural poverty.
Triggers for moving on to APLs 3 and 4:
* Project Preparation to be initiated once 60 percent of the ongoing APL Loan has been disbursed.
Social Assessment in eligible provinces and municipalities to be completed.
* Bank approval of new APL Loan to be done once 80 percent of the ongoing APL Loan is disbursed,
and the balance is substantially committed.



-35-
*  Acceptance by LGUs already participating in the program, of increased cost sharing on project
supported activities (as reflected in proposed or approved budgets, etc.); increased share of RD
activities funded from central DA budget integrated into LGU financial and investment plans.
*  Overall satisfactory performance, using the mid term evaluation as a basis for assessment of key
performance indicators (similar to those mentioned above, plus, more importantly, degree of initiative
by LGUs for instituting concrete mechanisms for sustainability of institutional arrangements initiated
under the MRDP).
*  Provincial LGUs already participating in the program (under APLs I and 2) should have rurai
development plans in place (see component on Strengthening LGU RD Planning), which are linked to
annual budgetary allocations. This should provide the basis for designing continued program support
for these LGUs.
APLs   Impln. Period    Estim. Cost Bank Loan  GEF
APL I  January 2000 -  US$41 .Om   US$27.5m   US$1 .25m
_  une 2003                __ __   ___          _
APL 2  January 2003 -  US$150m    US$90m       US$3.50m
December 2006
APL 3  July 2006 -     US$200m    US$ 1OOm    US$4.75m
June 2010
APL 4  January 2010 -  US$160m    US$72m       US$4.50m
June 2013
Total   J     1US$550m    US$290m   US$14.Om
Note: The proposed timing and amounts for APLs 2 to 4 are tentative, and will be subject to a fill
appraisal process. In preparing the above projections, it is assumed that 18 provinces and 218
municipalities will participate in APL2, and 24 provinces and 315 municipalities in both APLs 3
and 4. Share of Bank Loan financing in total project costs is assumed to decline from an average
of around 70 percent in APLI, to 60 percent in APL2, 50 percent in APL3, and 45 percent in
APL4.
Eligibility Criteria for LGU Participation
The initial group of LGUs shown below (provinces, and respective municipalities), which formed
the basis for project preparation, and where program implementation will commence in Year 1, were
selected by the DA and NEDA, primarily on the basis of: firstly, the province having an agriculture sector
of sufficient diversity to represent Mindanao (including having coastal municipalities); and secondly, the
municipalities selected, as shown below, were Class 4 to 6 LGUs.
* North Cotabato Province: Aleosan, Banisilan, Antipas, Libungan, Arakan
* Sultan Kudarat Province: Kalamansig, Sen. Ninoy Aquino. Lutayan, Lambayong, President
Quirino, Columbio.
The regional heads of national government agencies (NEDA, DILG, DA) from the six regions of
Mindanao, as well as from ARMM and MEDCO, met in November 1998, and agreed on criteria while
selecting the following additional three provinces for inclusion in APL 1: Agusan Sur, Maguindanao and
Compostela Valley. This would result in four regions participating in APL 1, and consequently, at an
institutional level, facilitate the geographic expansion of the program in subsequent APLs. If certain
LGUs do not perform, and APLI implementation performance suffers as a result, other provinces and
municipalities can be brought in to replace the original LGUs; this would require the endorsement of the
Program Management Board.



- 36-
The criteria for bringing in additional provinces (and municipalities) into APL I (and establishing a
ranking, if necessary for project preparation purposes, among provinces expressing interest in
participating in APL2) include the following:
*  Preferably allow for one province per Region, which will facilitate quicker replication within each
Region.
*  Provincial LGUs should be willing to allocate financial, staff and other resources for undertaking
project preparation; and commit themselves to facilitating, and participating in carrying out a Social
Assessment.
*  Within a Region, preference would be given to the province with the highest levels of poverty, as
evidenced by rural poverty incidence and rural poverty magnitude.
*  Preference would be given to provinces with a higher potential in agriculture and fisheries, and with
very limited or no similar externally financed project as MRDP.
*  Ability to service debt - projected annual debt service for next 3 years is less than 50 percent of
development fund.
Assessing Implementation Performance
The program will implement a strong M&E system, closely linked to enhancing LGU capacity in this
area, and putting in place an effective mechanism for assessing performance within the context of the
proposed APL program. In terms of capacity building, training courses, workshops as well as technical
assistance for LGUs will be provided. The key areas to be monitored includes the following:
-  Rate of implementation progress (eg., no. of kilometers of roads rehabilitated within a period of time,
increase in the no. of irrigated areas irrigated, etc.)
-  Processes which result in increased involvement of communities in the decision making process (eg.,
description of the mechanisms in which village level decision making is arrived at in determining
investment priorities and in managing community-based resources at the village level, etc.)
-  LGU plans becoming more responsive to broad community priorities (eg., greater level of satisfaction
among communities in the delivery of devolved agricultural and fisheries support services, etc.)
*  DA programs and budgets being integrated into LGU plans (eg., increasing yearly DA budgets which
are incorporated into devolved agricuiltural and fisheries support services, increasing role of LGUs in
performing and delivering devolved activities, etc.)
*  Direct impacts on beneficiaries from different components (eg., increase in on- and off-farm incomes
among targeted communities, improvement on access to basic services and markets, etc.)
Independent evaluation studies would be conducted at specific program milestones in order to assess
effects and impacts of interventions, as well as to consider adaptations to the program. Baseline data
would be collected at the provincial, municipal and community levels prior to implementing the various
program components in order to provide the basis for assessing the effectiveness of program
interventions.



- 37-
Annex 1 (b)
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Social Assessment
I.    Social Assessment (SA) led MRDP preparation activities. The Social Assessment was
implemented to ensure that project areas were appropriately selected, project objectives and strategies
were responsive and acceptable to the intended beneficiaries, and feasible within the subject areas' social,
political and institutional contexts. Further, the Social Assessment examined the experiences of the
various communities in their own development activities to see where the Project can build upon. Social
Assessment data collection focused on two provinces for project preparation and will be conducted in the
three additional provinces for their participation in APL 1. The first Social Assessment in Cotabato
Province (population 862,666) and Sultan Kudarat Province (population 522,187) conducted a total of
1,350 household surveys from 90 barangays in 20 municipalities and 120 focus group discussions from 60
barangays involving some 2,000 community residents. Barangays were selected such that they
represented the various types of agro-ecological systems found in Mindanao: mountainous, rolling,
lowland, marshlands, and coastal. Municipalities selected for the Social Assessment came from both 4h
to 6th class (50%) and from 1' to 3rd class (50%). Secondary data was also used. Similar Social
Assessment with improved questionnaires and smaller sample size are being initiated in the three
additional provinces (Agusan del Sur, Compostela Valley and Maguindanao) in APL 1.
2.    The Social Assessment was conducted with the active involvement of the local government units
(LGUs), which provided counterpart resources and staff. The latter worked effectively with the two area-
based institutions which implemented the Social Assessment: a non-government organization, CADTEC,
which was responsible for conducting the qualitative focus group discussions, and the University of
Southern Mindanao which was responsible for the quantitative household surveys. A series of
participatory planning workshops were conducted in various municipalities where the key findings of the
Social Assessment were presented to municipal and barangay management and legislative officials. The
close partnership with LGUs in the conduct of the Social Assessment has generated a strong sense of
local ownership for the Project.
Social Assessment Key Findings.
3.    In 1997, Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat (SK) were classified as among those with the highest
poverty incidence in the country with 52.9% and 50.6% respectively as against the country's 32.1%
poverty incidence. The two provinces are similar in termns of manpower and natural resources Their
geography is mainly mountainous and rolling plains with 80% in Cotabato and 53% in SK. Agriculture is
the main occupation of more than half the population.
4.    Corn is the main crop planted across all ecosystems, especially in the rolling and mountainous
areas, while rice is widely planted in the irrigated lowlands. In SK, farmers are increasingly growing
coffee in the rolling terrain. SK farmers in the coastal areas plant coconut trees and augment their income
through fishing. According to the study, more than 60% of farmers cultivate less than half of their entire
farm.
5.    Inadequate infrastructure services cited as a major concern by communities, include the virtual
absence of access roads in the rolling and mountainous areas (especially those connecting the sitios to the
barangay poblacion), farm to market roads (55% are earth roads) which become unpassable during the
rainy season, and the poor condition of existing ones in the lowlands. The poor road conditions
contribute to high transport costs for the farm produce and create problems for women and children in
accessing health and school facilities and services. In both provinces, less than 50% of the population
have access to potable water. This contributes to infant morbidity rates caused by diarrhea and other



water and sanitation-related diseases. Irrigation facilities in both provinces are mostly concentrated in the
lowlands. About 55% of the total irrigable area of the two provinces, covering some 113,566 hectares,
have untapped agricultural potential in the absence of irrigation facilities. Electricity is available only to
46% and 26% of the total households in Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat respectively.
6.     Farmers cite the lack of capital to adopt technology packages and improved farm inputs (seeds).
The adoption of more productive and efficient technology is further hindered by other factors such as
inadequate post-harvest facilities, farm tools, draft animals (carabao) and the high cost of credit. To
acquire capital for farm inputs and tools, farmers depend on traders and usurers charging exorbitant
interest rates of 17%-20% a month. They are unable to access loans from formal lending institutions like
banks because of the stringent requirements of these institutions; whereas traders/usurers offer them credit
lines without any collateral requirements. Further, traders send their agents (locally called "snipers")
directly to the farms, making them the most accessible source of credit in the remote areas.
7.     Coastal communities, considered one of the poorest among agricultural communities, indicate the
need for undertaking measures for improving their incomes from fishing and other coastal activities. This
in turn suggests the need for improved coastal and marine resources management with emphasis upon
community-based conservation of critical habitats, and introduction of sustainable fisheries management
and control in coastal waters, which should lead to improving the availability of fish resources in local
waters.
8.     Many communities in the rolling and mountainous areas have very limited access to basic health
services as reflected by the leading causes of morbidity and mortality rates (diarrhea, bronchitis and
pneumonia). These ailments are supposedly preventable diseases but the acute lack of health personnel
and other medical services,
particularly in the mountainous
Table : Ccotabato Community Priorities
MRDP Survey 1998                            areas compound health problems.
Education offered is mostly
is WR..t bri. 1 i  -- primary level, except in the
403lowlands where secondary schools
35                     l                        lil     l       glCr*dn  can be found. In the rolling and
gL2 osm  oodlobs  mountainous areas, the multi-grade
I2                     _                            UIZ Efl     system is practiced, wherein one
I 0                              _                               i 1111 1l  ll 1! _1 -1 zPosthTn#esls*Xs:teacher simultaneously handles two
5                                            M||1  11|       N           P"`eore I
9 low111              *                    il ll 1  W  [ { arDndantPnats or more grade levels in one
Mountain  Rolling    oand   Mansh   Cotabato               classroom. Schools in these areas
Ecooywamn                                  are oftentimes inaccessible during
the rainy season, when bamboo
bridges are destroyed by floods.
Table 2: Sultan Kud?rat Community Priorities        Further, facilities are acutely
MRDP Survey 1998                          lacking, with 1 table being shared
by 5-7 children while I book is
45                                             WR..dl -d tw4gl  shared by 8 children.
40                                              L-thh.WoodPb,
35                                  u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w.ra-app~o
3                                            _ons.t             9.      Indigenous Peoples.
25          _                       sPoslharveslhcirmes~~UP     D          r
rx 25 I C=     E>                      8        r socasewors    Among all ecosystems, the
15  _   =OFhg          communities in the mountainous
^ |             W        01F,tm P,U-ts   areas have the least access to all
D                                              OD.lt.nm.b      infrastructure, agricultural inputs
Mountain   Rolling   Lowiamd    Coast   S K.darat  up....   and other support services and
E- osyotss                                 basic social services Among all



- 39-
ethnic groups. the Indigenous Peoples (IP), living in the rolling and mountainous areas, are evidently the
poorest. The tribes verbalize feelings of inferiority as compared to their non-IP neighbors, and indicated
fears of gradually losing control over their ancestral lands.
10.    Women Concerns. Women assume multiple burdens (reproductive and economic production
roles) and are the most stressed during periods of low income, food scarcity and occurrence of natural and
man-made calamities. Income-generating opportunities for women are few and projects not sustainable;
livelihood projects such as dressmaking and stuffed toys reach as far as the training stage only.
Compared to other livelihood projects, women consider animal production as most beneficial and with the
greatest potential for generating additional income. Women raise hogs and goats not so much for their
meat and milk but as a source of cash for paying school fees, family health care, and general family
expenses.
II.    Community Priorities (refer to charts on previous page). Based on the survey and focus group
discussions conducted, rural infrastructure is the number one priority of all communities, regardless of
typologies, gender and ethnicity. On top of the infrastructure needs is the construction of access roads
and bridges (especially in the rolling and mountainous areas where sitios are not even accessible from the
barangay poblacion), and repair/rehabilitation of existing barangay roads. Potable water supply ranks
second, while irrigation systems construction/rehabilitation, and electricity follow suit.
92.    Agricultural inputs and other support services are second priority, under which, post-harvest
facilities, credit, government support price for goods and marketing assistance, farm inputs and extension
services are identified as most needed. IP communities, however, indicated farm animals (carabaos) and
other farm implements as first priority. While sharing the communities' perception that roads are the most
essential project inputs to facilitate development within their areas, women consider potable water supply,
livelihood opportunities, health and quality education services as priority needs to be addressed.
103.  Community Collective/Development Experience. The lowland and coastal communities are more
exposed to development projects, as shown by the number of community projects implemented in their
areas. As a result, their participatory development experience is much wider as compared to their
counterparts in the rolling and mountainous areas. Among all government projects implemented, solar
dryers and multi-purpose payments are appreciated across all ecosystems. Some weaknesses in the
delivery process have been noted, among which are the inappropriate location of some constructed
facilities, absence of clear-cut guidelines relative to its utilization, operation and maintenance, and poor
quality of construction work. Hogs and cattle dispersal, seeds/seedlings distribution are likewise
appreciated, although negative perceptions associated with the projects' "biased" distribution system and
the poor quality of some animals/seedlings which are provided greatly affected project
success/sustainability. As indicated in the focus group discussions, the number of development projects
thin out as one goes up to the rolling and mountainous areas. People's participation in these community
projects is mostly limited to the projects' implementation phase with no participation in planning and
design. They contribute labor, food, sites for project facilities, locally available materials (bamboo,
gravel, sand, coconut trunks/lumber) and allocate time for meetings.
114.   Community Willingness to Participate. The Social Assessment found that all groups were willing
to contribute for projects to be implemented in their areas. Their contribution can be in the form of some
free labor, reduced daily rates for paid labor, locally available material, some right-of-way, food during
construction, time to accompany project staff, clearing proposed road routes and data gathering.
According to the IPs and Muslim communities, there is nothing in their culture or traditions, which mav
affect their successful participation in any project which will benefit their communities. IP communities
value consensus, engage in communal activities, sharing of resources and are generous (which, they say,



- 40-
lowlanders, take advantage of). Contrary to popular beliefs. IPs are currently slowly moving into crop
production farming systems.
Conclusions and Recommendations
125.  In response to the key issues highlighted by communities and LGUs during the Social
Assessment consultation process, MRDP has proposed the following three components for the design of
the first phase. APL 1. Rural Infrastructure: This will include support for (i) rural and farm-to-market
roads, taking a network approach for the province as a whole in the definition of the component; (ii)
rehabilitation of communal irrigation systems; and (iii) rural water supply schemes. Community Funds:
Given the variety of needs and demand expressed by communities during the Social Assessment, and the
fact that these differ between communities within a municipality and a province, it is proposed that
community funds be made available at the municipal level to finance sub-projects identified by
communities themselves, which fall within an agreed menu of investment and services related to
agricultural development. From within the community funds, a specified share will be earmarked for
supporting targeted groups and communities, such as rural women and IPs. Institutional Development:
This component is expected to provide implementation support for LGUs, and improve their capacity in
managing decentralization and local autonomy. In addition to these three components, a Coastal and
Marine Biodiversity Conservation Component of the program is being supported using a grant from GEF.
136.  Other Recommendations. The Social Assessment findings indicate that the poor in both
provinces totally depend mainly on corn for their subsistence. There is an urgent need to address their
continuing marginalization, while taking into consideration the observation that the high soil erosion rates
noted in both provinces is attributable to corn production in the rolling and mountainous areas.
Alternative crops and sustainable farming systems must be developed, with the close collaboration among
the agricultural research institutions, non-government organizations, the LGU agricultural staff and the
target communities. Another specific intervention which can have greater impact on the poor is in
improving fish production, processing and marketing in the coastal areas of Sultan Kudarat. Some
aspects of community needs can be supported by the community funds (e.g., dryers and storage) but other
aspects cannot be tackled piecemeal but require systematic interventions in an integrated manner.
17.   Given the negative feedback relative to community projects implemented in their areas, MRDP,
as a policy, must promote accountability, transparency and openness during implementation, and demand
political participation for all stakeholders. Setting up mechanisms to ensure operationalization of these
implementation policies will prevent occurrence of such negative perceptions and build support for the
gradual internalization of new behavioral processes which the Project hopes to institutionalize.
18.   The Community Fund has a strategic importance to poverty alleviation in the long term. The
guiding principles underpinning the project's design, aim to ensure the meaningful participation of target
beneficiaries in decision-making activities all throughout the project design/execution stages; this should
eventually lead to "enabled" communities capable of pursuing other projects basic to their development.
Towards this end, the LGUs must partner with support institutions, such as NGOs, the tribal associations,
peoples organizations, the religious and academic institutions skilled in community mobilization and
leadership development. Using the results of the Social Assessment, these groups must continue the
momentum gained in community mobilization, and enable communities to plan rationally the priority
projects, organize and mobilize sub-groups for the project implementation activities, and develop plans
for the subsequent operation, maintenance and expansion of the services they will derive, as a result of
accessing the Community Funds. The quality of the organization work implemented by the partnership
will eventually spell the difference between failures and successes.



- 41-
Annex 2 (a)
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Rural Infrastructure Component
The table below outlines the scope, in physical terms, of the proposed rural infrastructure
component (US$27.4 million). In addition, the project will selectively provide for capacity building of
local institutions, linking it closely to physical implementation.
Estimated  Maximum                        US$
Component         Quantity   Unit Cost    Number of LGUs   million
A. Rural Roads/ Access                                             16.9
Provincial roads         40 km      $75,000     5 provinces
Provincial 2-lane bridge    100 lm  $6,250      5 provinces
Routine maintenance                 $1,250/km   5 provinces
Municipal FMR            460 km     $20,000     32 municipalities
Municipal FMR I-lane     750 Im                 32 municipalities
bridge__                               _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _  _ _  _ _
Municipal FMR routine               $750/km     32 municipalities
maintenance
B. Rural Water Supply    140 units   $8,750     32 municipalities    1.4
C. Communal Irrigation                                             8.5
CIP (new schemes)      855 ha                 5 provinces
CIS (rehabilitation)   4,350 ha               5 provinces
D. Capacity Building   1                                           0.6
Total                                                         27.4
The rural infrastructure component targets 32 municipalities, in the 5 provinces of Cotabato, Sultan
Kudorat, Maguindanao, Agusan Sur, and Compostela Valley. The Year I program has been designed
within the initial two provinces of Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat. The 11 municipalities involved in Year
I (selection based on guidance provided by NEDA in the earlier stages of processing) are the following:
* North Cotabato: Aleosan, Banisilan, Antipas, Libungan, Arakan
* Sultan Kudarat: Kalamansig, Senator Ninoy Aquino, Lutayan, Lambayong, President Quirino,
Columbio
A.    Rural Roads/Access (Base Cost-US$15.68 million)
Strategy for rural roads The Social Assessment in the project target area indicated the high
priority given to rural roads by rural communities as is often the case in poor rural areas. Given this
clearly articulated need, the project includes rural roads, even though presently there is no explicit
national government strategy for rural roads in the Philippines. The NEDA has requested the World Bank
to assist with the development of a strategy for rural roads, and this work is ongoing, and results will feed
into the subsequent phases of the APL. Since the project team recognizes that some of the sector issues
are contributing to the low quality of the rural roads, the project aims to utilize several aspects which are
considered to be good practice in development of a sustainable rural roads sector, and will be able to test
some aspects of the proposed strategy as it develops.
An important objective of the project is to facilitate implementation of the Local Government
Code which designates inter alia responsibility for farm-to-market roads to the LGUs. With a large share



- 42-
of funding for farm-to-market roads presently coming from a variety of national government sources,
particularly Department of Agriculture (DA), the current method of implementing farm-to-market roads is
essentially a centralized government implementation approach sometimes utilizing DPWH which does
not always fully involve the relevant LGUs. These central agencies then typically hand-over the
completed project to the LGU for maintenance. This disconnect between the implementer of the works
and the agency responsible for maintenance leads to lack of commitment to undertake maintenance. The
project will implement in line with the Local Government Code which designates authority for rural roads
to the LGUs.
The table below outlines how the project moves from the current situation to improved aspects of
infrastructure management.
CURRENT SITUATION                            WITH PROJECT
* Centralized management and implementation    * Decentralized management and Implementation
by national government agencies such as DPWH   by the responsible local government unit
and NIA
* By Force Account                        * By Contract
* By Equipment                            * By labor based equipment supported
* Heavy equipment purchased by LGUs       * No equipment purchase for road works
* No Routine maintenance                  * Project setting up routine maintenance structure
* Limited Planning; Prioritization        * Selection criteria; network approach
* Ownership not designated                * Ownership being clarified: provincial.
municipal, community
Description of component The proposed rural roads component will rehabilitate designated i)
Provincial roads and ii) "Municipal/barangay farm-to-market roads (FMR)", both of which are the direct
responsibility of the relevant Provincial and Municipal Local Government Units (LGUs) respectively.
Farm-to-market roads are defined as designated roads below the Provincial roads leading from the farm-
gate to Provincial, National or Municipal town roads. National and sub-national roads, which are under
DPWH responsibility and supported through other programs, and the municipal town roads are not
included in the project. The community footpaths and footbridges which fall beyond the designated
network will be financed under the Community Fund component of the project, based on community
expressed demand.
As outlined in the table above, the project would provide support for an estimated minimum of 40
kms of provincial roads (and around 40 linear meters of bridges); and around 460 kms of municipal roads
(together with about 750 linear meters of bridges) covering 5 provinces. Upper unit cost limits are
indicated. The project aims to encourage LGUs to implement at lower cost by giving a fixed amount of
funds thereby allowing a greater length to be implemented if done at lower unit cost. Importantly, the
project will adopt a network approach (taking the province as the unit for planning purposes), and
strengthen local capacity in doing so, while prioritizing the proposed investments on farm to market
roads. The selective improvement of provincial roads will ensure that all project supported FMRs meet
an essential criteria that they link up with an existing all weather road. There will be no new road
construction but rather rehabilitation and maintenance, and in the case of provincial roads, upgrading to
bituminous surfacing where justified. The provincial roads will be 6 m wide and farm-to-market roads
4 m wide.
Selection criteria The year I works were proposed by the LGUs at workshops held in January 1999
and satisfy the criteria set out below. The program of works for future years will be selected by a local
committee to be established by the LGU (possibly use a subset of members from the multisectoral



- 43-
committee to be established for the Community Funds component), which will include representatives
from the private sector - farmers, transporters, civil society, to ensure that planning of investments serve
the real needs of the users. The selection criteria include:
*  FMR must link into an existing all weather road;
*  It must be a vital link from existing or potential key production areas in target municipalities; for
provincial roads, it must lead to target municipalities;
*  They must have sufficient traffic: for provincial roads proposed to be upgraded from gravel to asphalt
(or concrete), minimum 200 vpd to be considered; for municipal/barangay farm-to-market roads,
minimum 50 vpd to be considered (may convert pedestrians, etc to pcu);
* Must have minimum Economic Rate of Return ERR of 15% (NEDA requirement);
*  Unit cost must not exceed the following amounts:
* Provincial roads: PhP 3,000,000/km (US$75,000/kin)
* Municipal/barangay farm-to-market road: PhP 800,000/km (US$20,000/km).
Environmental Impact and Land Acquisition and Resettlement All roads will follow current
alignments thus minimizing potential environmental impacts and land acquisition. An Environment
Impact Statement has been prepared for the year I roads. A Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy
Framework, which has been prepared, clearly lays out the conditions and compensation entitlements in
accordance with the Bank's OD 4.30. The guidelines and forms for required information will be in the
Operation Manual of the Program. Inventories for the first year infrastructure program have been
collected by the PCO.
Implementation arrangements The specific arrangements are given in the implementation
manuals, and can be summarized as follows:
Provincial roads - Provincial LGU:
Detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents    Provincial Engineer (PE)
Bidding Process and award of contract                  PPDO and PBAC
Supervision of contract                                PE
Municipal/barangayfarm-to-market roads - Municipal LGUU:
Detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents    Municipal Engineer (ME)
Bidding Process and award of contract                  ME & MPDO
Supervision of contract                                ME
The detailed engineering, bidding and supervision will be done by the LGUs. Where capacity is
limited at the Municipal LGU, they may call on the assistance of the Provincial LGU or on the services of
a consulting firm to be on recruited on a retainer basis through the Program Coordination Office (PCO).
The average size of a contract is expected to be about US$100,000. with a 5 month implementation
period, preferably in the dry season (February to July).
Labor The minimum regional wage is PhP 120 per day (US$ 3 per day equivalent), thus making
use of labor-based methods economic (the threshold is normally US$ 4 per day, below which labor-based
is considered economically viable). Given that high levels of unemployment and under-employment
prevail in Mindanao, the design of the project will encourage the use of labor-based road construction.
The roads will be designed to encourage a greater use of labor by the contractors (trapezoidal drains
rather than V shaped drains are specified), and the size of the contracts which are generally less than
USD$100,000 per contract will encourage smaller contractors who find labor preferable to hiring
equipment. The decentralized implementation should ensure faster payments than centralized



- 44-
implementation, and this is important for encouraging small contractors. The percent of labor in the cost
of works is targeted at 50 percent (currently it is about 35 percent). The option of imposing labor-based
construction was not considered to be workable: there have been several such projects in the past in
Philippines which remained as donor driven pilots and were never successfully mainstreamed. Thus this
proposal of designing the project to make use of labor-based the most economic solution was chosen. A
public information campaign will also be used to highlight to contractors and implementing agencies the
benefits of labor-based construction. If it is determined that after the first year contracts these targets are
not being met then the contract structure will be reviewed and specific requirements may be considered.
Gender impact The social assessment indicates that the lack of income opportunities constrains
women, and they emigrate to seek menial employment in town centers. The project will include a public
information campaign in the beneficiary community, once the contract has been signed and before the
recruitment of labor is started, to inform women of the contract and when to apply for the jobs. Current
legislation specifies that of the labor required for a contract, 70 percent be recruited from the beneficiary
community. The target for participation by women is 25 percent of the labor. If it is determined that after
the first year contracts this target is not being met, then the contract structure will be reviewed and
specific requirements or quotas may be considered.
Economic impact All year I municipalities have completed traffic counts on the proposed farm-
to-market roads. The traffic counts included all Non-Motorized Transport i.e. pedestrians and animal
drawn carts. Indications are that the traffic levels are high enough to justify the proposed interventions.
Further economic analysis is discussed under the Annex 4.
Operations and Maintenance The project emphasizes routine maintenance, seeking a
commitment to undertake routine maintenance from the participating LGUs, with sanctions for non-
performance (LGUs not fulfilling this commitment will not be eligible for the following years program).
The cost of routine maintenance is included in the project cost and will be financed by the LGUs.
Currently, the LGUs have little experience with routine maintenance, but rather use their funds to respond
to rehabilitation and emergency maintenance needs. They are however committed to the routine
maintenance but have little understanding of what it actually is. Therefore the project will work with
demonstration sections assisted by technical assistance to demonstrate the positive benefits.
The cost of routine maintenance of those roads currently in good condition are included in the
project costs from Year 1 at a unit cost of PhP50,000 1km/year (US$1,250/kmlyear) for provincial roads
and PhP30,000/km/year (US$750/km/year) for farm-to-market roads in the target municipalities. Each
LGU will be required to identify a 2-3 km test stretch per year. This will be audited to determine that the
maintenance was undertaken. Each year another stretch will be added thus increasing the stock of roads
under routine maintenance by the end of the project. Each LGU has on average 50 km of roads, thus the
project will ensure maintenance of about up to 25 percent of the road stock and also will show a
demonstration effect with the idea that the LGU may add to this stock voluntarily. The project will test
out different approaches for introducing routine maintenance. A technical assistance component will be
used to assist the LGUs; the options of developing Small and Medium Enterprises or using the "length
man" system will be explored.



- 45-
Monitoring and evaluation
Indicator          Measurements to be done "before"    Unit    Responsibility
and "after"
Increase in traffic levels  Traffic count                    ADT    PE/ME
Reduction in travel time    Travel time survey over length of    Km/hr  PE/ME
road
Reduction in passenger fares    Review of fares on skylabs and  Pesos/  PE/ME
jeepneys *                       trip
Reduction in goods transport   Review of charges for an item of    Pesos/  PE/ME
costs                       produce e.g. rice *              ton    I
Condition of road network in   Condition survey to determine %  Percent PE/ME
target areas                good, fair and bad                  %
Note: * In these cases a non-project road in the vicinity will also be monitored since transport fares can
change due to outside influences as well.
B.    Rural Water Supply (Base Cost - US$ 1.29 million)
Description The provision of safe potable water was identified in the social assessment as a
major concern for rural communities. A number of communities have been provided with schemes
through the national and local government units. The project will support continued rehabilitation and
construction of Level I (point source) and 11 (communal faucet) spring development projects. There are
on average 18 barangays per municipality. Some have existing water supply systems which need
rehabilitation work of less than P 350,000 (US$ 8,750). Some barangays have no potential spring source
and will be provided with artesian wells possibly under the Community Fund component. These point
source Level I artesian well costs about PhP 100,000 (US$2,500) per unit and will be targeted in Class 5
and 6 municipalities.
Implementing arrangements: These will be implemented by Municipal LGUs with community labor
input, as is currently the case. Rural/Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Associations
(RWSAs/BWSAs) are currently the beneficiaries of the LGU water supply projects, and water charges are
levied by then for the operations and maintenance of the systems. The establishment of such committees
will be a pre-condition of support to the rural water supply and sanitation sub-projects.
Selection criteria
* Class 5 and 6 municipality; or high incidence of poverty.
* Proposed sites must have a reliable water supply throughout the year.
* Water sample must be free from any contamination and certified safe by the Department of Health or
local health officer etc..
C.    Communal Irrigation (Base cost US$6.68 million)
Description The project, under APL 1, will support the rehabilitation of the community owned and
managed run-of-river communal irrigation schemes (CIS), as well as, the construction of a few new
communal irrigation projects (CIP). The priority shall be given to the CIS. The CIP shall be limited to
relatively smaller schemes where sufficient water is available in close proximity of the proposed service
area, where long canals from the source are not required and where there are no difficult right of way
acquisition problems. The Provincial Irrigation Office (PIO) of the National Irrigation Administration
(NIA) will be responsible for implementation.



- 46-
Selection criteria
 The project would exclude the rehabilitation of the irrigation systems which were completed or
rehabilitated within the past five years. except those damaged by natural calamities, and where the
work involves completion of remaining works which could not be implemented due to shortage of
funds.
* The schemes with more than 20% land still eligible for redistribution under the land reform program
would be included only after emancipation patents had been issued.
* The scheme should serve at least 20 farmers. The largest scheme would be not more than 500 ha.
For larger schemes, Irrigation Associations (IAs) will be required to engage full-time professional
management. The upper limit for professionally managed schemes would be 1,000 ha.
*  As the project targets small-holders, the average farm size in the scheme should not exceed 3 ha.
* The farners should be actively involved in preparing the proposals and concur with the provisions in
the feasibility study. The concerned Province and Municipality should concur with the inclusion of
the scheme under the project, and the works proposed in the feasibility study.
*  The expected cropping intensity should be more than 150%.
* The service area of the scheme should have soil and slopes suitable for the proposed irrigated crops.
* For CIS, the IA should not be in default on payment of the amortization.
* For CIP, there should be no quarrying of gravel from the source stream within one Kilometer
downstream of the darn.
*  CIS:      the average cost not to exceed P40,000/ha (US$1,000/ha)
ceilings of P75,000/ha (US$ 1,875/ha) for individual schemes;
in areas of high value crops, ceiling of P100,000/ha (US$ 2,500/ha)
*  CIP:      the average cost not exceed P90,000/ha (US$ 2,250/ha)
Ceiling of P130,000/ha (US$ 3,250/ha) may be considered;
in areas of high value crops, ceiling of P160,000/ha (US$ 4,000/ha)
The economic rate of return (EIRR) not less than 15%,
Schemes which conform with the above criteria have been identified for all five provinces, and their
inclusion in the project agreed by NIA Head Office and the provincial LGUs subject to the results of
feasibility studies. The Year I implementation program is based on the completion of feasibility studies
by NIA.
Main Technical Requirement for CIS Proposals. Though these are existing schemes, the
proposals would confirm:
(a)   the availability of water from the source to meet the requirements of the cropping
intensity proposed after intervention under the project, and
(b)   the suitability of soils for the crops proposed, specially for those CIS where water is



- 47-
insufficient and explore possibilities for switching to crops necessitating less water.
The basic technical requirement would be not to treat the rehabilitation as an operation for repairs to
damage. The objective of the rehabilitation shall be to improve the system fully to be able to transport
water efficiently and to distribute over the service area (specially during dry years). The instruction
issued by NIA Administrator for modality of operation for the World Bank-funded Second Communal
Irrigation Development Project (CIDP II) schemes shall be complied with, and the feasibility studies shall
specifically demonstrate what decision has been taken by IA with regard to the structures for control of
water level in the canals and to supply water through each turnout only to an extent which would fulfill
the requirements of its area served. Lining of canals would be permissible only in bad reaches where
heavy seepage losses have been noted (and are demonstrated by tests) or where the canals pass through
residential areas. The rehabilitation measures could include extension of the canal system to additional
areas (provided water is not a constraint), when details for the extension area will be provided as required
for CIP, and the existing Irrigators' Association (IA) concerned would certify that the farmers of the
extension area have confirmed willingness to become IA members. IA shall also certify that the farmers
who are likely to lose a part of their land from the canal extensions have agreed to donate their land to the
IA.
Main Technical Requirement for CIP Proposals. The main technical requirements would be
the same as for CIS. The objective of an efficient transport of water and its equitable distribution shall be
fully met in the designs, by providing long-crested weirs for water level control and proportional dividers
at turnouts or laterals for uncontrolled distribution in accordance with the area served by the turnout or the
lateral. The misconception that the long-crested weirs and structures for proportional dividers could not
be constructed in small canals, shall not be allowed to justify continuing with the old designs. Use of
gates (if provided) at lateral heads and at turnouts shall be envisaged only for totally closing the flow and
not for regulation.
Preparation of Feasibility Studies. The preparation of feasibility studies for CIS and CIP
proposals shall continue to be the responsibility of the National Irrigation Administration (NIA). NIA is
however, having problems with providing its Provincial Engineers (PE) adequate funds for preparation of
feasibility studies to pursue a long range investment program. PE has thus been able to carry out the
necessary surveys for only a few of the requests received. Only limited number of feasibility studies are
available, most of which need to be updated. In case of CIS, updating requires a fresh assessment of the
remedial measures since further system deterioration could occur. This project would therefore provide
for funding the surveys and investigation for the feasibility studies. The preparation of the proposals for
the CIS and CIP shall be carried out with continuous consultation with IA or with the group of farmers (in
case of CIP where IA would not exist), and LGU kept informed. The feasibility study submitted by the
PE to the Regional Manager of NIA and to Manager, Communal Irrigation Department at NIA head
quarters shall have the following certification:
a)     By the PE that the proposals contained in the feasibility study cover the full improvement
requirements for efficient transport of water and equitable distribution over the entire service
area. The mode of discharge control through turnouts and water level control adopted for system
improvement or new system shall be clearly specified.
b)     By the IA that it agrees with the proposals. In case of CIP and any extension
proposal in CIS, IA would certify that the farmers who are likely to lose some of their land have
agreed in writing to donate their lands.
c)     By the concerned LGU that there is full agreement with the proposals.
The approval of the feasibility studies for implementation of works would follow the same
procedures as currently followed for CIDP II. NIA central office shall forward to Bank for
concurrence a summary of each feasibility study.



- 48-
Implementation arrangements The implementation of the schemes would be governed by the
Department of Agriculture guidelines for Poverty Alleviation Projects issued in 1996.
No.   Action                                                       Responsibility
I     Feasibility study approved                                   NIA CO
2      Detailed surveys, detailed designs and drawings and submission of   PIO, RIO and CO
the Program of Works (POW), sanction and allocation of funds  of NIA; and LGU
3      Action to constitute the IA (CIPs) and ensure necessary training to   PIO of NIA and
the IA management and accelerate IA fulfilling other requirements   LGU
for getting registration (CIS)
4      Memorandum of Understanding (MOA) to be signed between NIA,  NIA, LGU and
LGU, IA, using the formats already in use for on-going schemes.    IA
5      Implementation                                              NIA
Implementation mode Mostly by force account utilizing local labor and Irrigator Association
participation to generate jobs, except for major works for which award of contracts to the contractor
would be cost effective and faster. The procurement of contracts shall follow the Bank guidelines for
"Small Contracts." The procedures for community participation contracts will apply to Irrigator
Association contracts. The responsibility for quality control of works shall be exercised by NIA; LGUs
will designate staff who will work closely with NIA during the design and implementation phases. The
rehabilitated or constructed systems shall be turned over to the Irrigators Associations within six months
of the completion of works after making trial runs to confirm proper functioning of the system including
resolution of problems, if any.
Operations and Maintenance Irrigators Associations (lAs) shall be fully responsible for
managing the system after turn-over, NIA providing technical assistance as well as strengthening of IA.
IA shall take necessary action to maintain the work properly and operate the system to assure equity of
distribution. The designated staff from the provincial LGUs (PAOs and MAO staff) would work closely
with the lAs, and monitor the O&M of the communal schemes; where appropriate, they will work with
the LAs in strengthening maintenance.
Financial Arrangement Funds for the implementation of the scheme would be transferred from
the DA budget to MDF. At the concerned LGU request, MDF shall transfer the funds needed to NIA
Central Office. The funds so received by NIA would then be passed on to PIOs concerned through
Advice of Allocations and cash releases, a standard procedure in NIA. The LGU's contribution (10%)
would be used to meet part of the costs, in accordance with its MOA with NIA. NIA shall determine the
amount of amortization payment by each IA, and collect the amounts due, in accordance with its MOA
with LGU.
Monitoring and Evaluation NIA remains in continuous contact with IA after turnover through
the Institution Development Officers (IDO). Data is collected on the crops grown and yields in each crop
season. No monitoring is carried out for the status of maintenance or IA activities to keep the system in
good shape and to properly distribute the water. NIA's monitoring of a communal irrigation system stops
when IA has completed its amortization payments. The Municipality has the role of providing agriculture
extension only. Under the project, institutional strengthening is envisaged in the LGU (see below), to
carry out the function of monitoring and evaluation of O&M by lAs and providing assistance for IA
carrying out remedial actions to improve O&M whenever deficient.



- 49-
D.    Capacity Building and Technical Assistance (Base Cost US$ 0.49 million)
The assessment of the LGUs and the experience in the project preparation indicates that the
LGUs have sufficient technical capacity to undertake detailed engineering, to procure contracts and to
supervise the implementation of the works. Nevertheless to facilitate the implementation, in particular
with regards to the implementation of routine maintenance of the rural infrastructure facilities, the
program stakeholders and various implementors shall be provided with the following capacity building
interventions:
Rural Infra Development            To develop the community and LGU capacity in
Planning and Prioritization       rational road network planning, project
Workshop                           identification and prioritization.
Detailed Engineering               To enhance LGU capacity in the conduct of
(D.E.) preparation                field survey works and preparation of D.E.
workshop                           plans, specifications and Programs of Work
(P.O.W.) for rural infrastructure sub-projects.
Training in Contract               To enhance LGU capacity in preparing bidding
Management and                     documents, conducting procurement for goods
Procurement                        and work according to World Bank guidelines
and management of sub-project implementation
by contract.
Training in labor based!           To develop the capacity of the community to
Equipment supported                participate in project implementation and
(LB/ES) method of                  maintenance as labor contractor thru the
Construction and                   enhancement of the LGUs' skills in LB/ES
Maintenance or rural              technology.
infrastructure
Infra Physical and                 To enhance LGU and PCO capacity in the
Financial monitoring and           conduct of physical and financial monitoring
evaluation seminar                 and evaluation of rural infrastructure project
implementation.
Training in communal               To enhance LGU and community capacity to
Irrigation Operation and           operate and maintain the completed communal
Maintenance                        irrigation facilities.
Public Information Campaign        To promote the use of labor-based construction and the
employment of women in road works



- 50-
Annex 2 (b)
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project - APLI
Community Funds for Agricultural Development
Component (Base Costs US$6.06 m)
The Community Funds for Agricultural Development (CF) aim to address the diverse priorities
expressed by communities during the Social Assessment. Specific objectives of CF are: i) to strengthen
decision-making capacity at community level for design and implementation of sub-projects; ii) to ensure
that the Department of Agriculture's programs better reflect community needs; and iii) Local Government
planning and technical assistance will reflect community priorities. CF will finance sub-projects which
fall within an agreed menu of investments and services which are consistent with selected thrusts of the
Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act of 1997 (AFMA). For APLI, the CF will be made available
to 32 municipalities in the five APL I provinces subject to satisfactory performance, it will be made
available to all municipalities in subsequent APLs, provided they meet eligibility requirements of certain
poverty indicators and targeting of poor barangays. From within the CF, 40% will be earmarked for
supporting communities such as indigenous peoples, and rural women.
The component would be implemented in the first year of the project in II municipalities.
Assistance would be provided to the municipalities in setting up the systems and procedures for the
component. The remaining municipalities would be covered in the second year provided they meet the
eligibility criteria.
Fund Contribution:
The structure of contribution to the fund on an annual basis is as follows:
PhP 500,000 (approx. $12,500) minimum from municipality
PhP 500,000 (approx. $12,500) matching fund from DA
PhP 1,500,000 (approx. $37,500) from loan proceeds
If a municipality can raise its contribution above the minimum it will be matched equally by the DA.
Beneficiaries would be required to put up a minimum of 10% of sub-project cost as equity in kind (labor
and/or materials).
Funds from DA would be channeled through the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) to the
municipalities account, which participating municipalities would be required to open in a depository bank
using their annual contribution as initial deposit. Funds from the loan proceeds would be released against
each sub-project. Funds would be disbursed on a quarterly basis following an approved CF disbursement
program and actual disbursement performance. Fund releases would only be made upon certification by
the Provincial Program Coordinator, the DA's Regional Field Unit Coordinator and the PCO Head.
Sub-Projects
During APL- I implementation, CF would finance sub-projects from communities with a
minimum cost of PhP 50,000 (approx. $1,300) and a maximum cost of PhP 150,000 (approx. $3,950)
with some exceptions to accommodate sub-projects such as trails and hanging bridges. To be eligible,
community members have to be organized as a group and present proposals which fall within the
priorities of DA's national agricultural development program. Proposals which fall within a negative list
will not be funded. Communities will receive the funds in the form of grants, with the scale of
community contributions depending on the proposed sub-project activities. Detailed information on
project preparation, selection and implementation including project menu, negative list, etc. is contained
in the Operations Manual.



- 51-
The eligibility and selection criteria shall ensure that sub-projects are demand driven and meet
community preferences, and that they meet essential technical, economic, financial and social parameters
outlined in the Operations Manual. The majority of the sub-projects are expected to be small and well
within the technical and management capacity of the community. Where sub-projects are more
technically complex (e.g., a hanging bridge), and these will be few, technical assistance will be provided
by the Fund. TA at 5-6% of sub-project costs will be available.
Poor communities will be targeted and preference will be given to indigenous peoples and
women. For the former, selection of community priorities and implementation approaches will be guided
by the Operations Manual which will incorporate the Indigenous People's Development Guidelines
prepared for the project. Preference will also be given to women in that for every two proposals a year
permitted a barangay, the second must come from a women's group. Additional technical assistance will
be provided to these two groups from the Fund. One of several lessons learned from previous Bank
projects is that few women will participate in projects unless special arrangements are made for them.
Management
CF management will be at the municipal level. For the first year, financial management will be at
the provincial level and this will gradually be moved to the municipal level based on pre-defined
performance indicators. Each municipality would be required to open a CF Trust account in the nearest
depository bank with current account facilities. A satisfactory financial management system covering the
establishment of CF trust account with municipal contributions deposited, accounting system, provision
for audit and financial monitoring will be established for each participating municipality. The
institutional capacity strengthening component of MRDP will provide for capacity building of CF
management by the various levels of LGU.
A Municipal Multisectoral Committee will be established for sub-project appraisal and approval.
The Committee shall be composed of a maximum of 11 representatives from the government and non-
government Sector. Government representatives would come from the RFU, and from the
provincial/municipal LGUs. Non-government representation would come from a variety of sources:
respected citizens such as religious and civic leaders, teachers and private sector persons; representatives
from women's associations, cooperatives, MAFC, IP Councils, Chamber of Commerce/trades, a local
University, the MDC Social Services Committee, transport operator's associations, etc.
Technical Assistance
TA will be provided by the Fund, if needed, in the preparation and implementation of sub-
projects. It will follow existing practices where assistance will be first sourced from the LGU's own
technical pool and then from DA and other national government agencies when sub-projects are more
technically complex. Supporting institutions and NGOs will be encouraged to help communities plan and
implement their sub-projects. There will be an amount of 4-6% of total sub-project cost allowed for the
preparation of proposals on contract basis. Payments would be made only for approved sub-projects.
Transparency
Transparency is an important aspect of the CF component and information will have to be easily
accessible by everyone. The Project information and brochures will have to be widely disseminated. The
Municipal Multisectoral Group will have to ensure fair and unbiased selection of sub-projects which meet
community demands and provide benefits to a large group of beneficiaries. The Project will set up
mechanisms to ensure all municipalities, barangays and beneficiaries are kept informed of decisions on
sub-project selections. Monthly balance statements and sub-project progress prepared by the municipality



- 52-
will be provided to the barangay leaders and beneficiary groups. Beneficiaries will participate in
monitoring their own sub-projects. The Barangay Working Groups will post sub-project information in
public places in the barangay center and in each sitio.
Review and Evaluation
In the third year of APLI, the CF Component would be reviewed to determine more appropriate
mechanism and magnitudes of the component. The key areas for evaluation would cover: a) size of
municipal CF allocation; b) project menu and caps; c) implementation arrangements; d) possible
expansion of scope of CF at the municipal level; and e) expansion of CF for municipal and provincial
levels to cover inter-barangay and inter-municipal facilities and services.



- 53-
Annex 2 (c)
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Capacity Building for Improving Microfinance Access (Base Costs US$0.33 m)
Background and Rationale. Drawing upon past experience in the Philippines, an increase in farm
production alone is not sufficient to absorb the net addition to the labour force, and secure rural growth.
Expansion in employment in non-farm activities is essential. A growth of microenterprises is important
because of their contribution to poverty alleviation without imposing an excessive fiscal burden, by
making better use of private sector initiatives and market mechanisms. The limited access to financial
services by small borrowers, farm or non-farm, has constrained productive investments in these sectors in
Mindanao, as in the rest of the Philippines. The results of the Social Assessment (see Annex I b)
indicated that access to institutional credit is a key constraint to investments by "small men with small
causes". This conclusion was reinforced by an IFC study of microenterprises in Metro Manila and Davao
City, which revealed that a significant number accessing financial resources, (37%) has borrowed from
money lenders, a small number (19%) from cooperatives, and an insignificant number from the
commercial banks and private development banks.
The existing microfinance institutions - cooperatives, rural banks (RBs), cooperative rural banks
(CRBs), and credit-granting non-government organizations (NGOs) are in most cases characterized by
poor financial performance, weak management and lack of technical skills. Credit delivery is thus
hampered not only by borrowers' difficulties in meeting voluminous paper work and collateral
requirements, but also by the poor performance of the formal lending institutions. Cooperatives have
found it increasingly difficult to access loans from the Land Bank. A recent survey of cooperatives in
North Cotabato commissioned by CADTEC indicated that about 36% of the cooperatives were able to
obtain loans from the Land Bank and only 11% claimed that their members had fully repaid their loans.
To reverse this trend, the Land Bank has launched a cooperative improvement program known as "key"
cooperative (KC) scheme, in which a successful cooperative is identified in a municipality and assistance
is provided to potential key cooperatives (PKCs) to raise them to the level of KCs. This scheme deserves
support. RBs/CRBs have gone through a period of financial distress and some have weathered the storm
with the benefit of a government supported rehabilitation program. Most RBs/CRBs still operate with
traditional banking practices which tend to discourage new financial technology and modem market
development; a majority of them have not been exposed to best international practices which would be
both cost-effective and helpful in mobilizing deposits and lending profitably. NGOs have demonstrated
their ability in selecting borrowers based on close monitoring and on infornation about their activities
rather like what informal lenders do.
Commercial banks have not been active in this process voluntarily for various reasons including
higher costs and greater risks in small lending. They do not offer financial services that are appropriate to
small borrowers, since their minimum loan size is too high, and requirements for collateral and
documentation too tough to be met by these "small men with small causes". In contrast, MFIs enjoy a
comparative advantage in providing financial services to small borrowers in rural areas because of their
rural location and ownership, as well as their familiarity and experience with rural communities.
The heterogeneity of the socio-economic status of the rural people and diverse nature of their
economic activities would imply that the demand for financial services may not be fully met by a unique
financial institution or by a uniform approach. The program will therefore support a mix of rural
institutions encompassing cooperatives, RBs/CRBs, and NGOs, and will test new approaches to credit
delivery.
Objectives and components. A key objective of the component is to upgrade the institutional
capacity of eligible cooperatives and other MFIs in the project provinces to be able to increase their



- 54-
outreach, improve service quality and enhance financial sustainability. In addition, two new credit
delivery approaches will be tested on a pilot scale within the project area. To achieve these objectives,
the proposed program will have four principal elements:
*  Support to the key cooperative scheme of the Land Bank;
*  Strengthening the institutional capacity of other MFIs;
*  Support to a Pilot Rural Peoples Bank (RPB); and
*  Introduction of a loan agent scheme.
(a) Support to the key cooperative scheme: Training and follow-up on-site technical assistance
will be provided to potential key cooperatives whose staff have participated in the training courses. The
program will finance a local consultant (15 person months), a vehicle, as well as costs of training
materials and cross visits. The consultant will be assigned to perform his/her tasks over three years, each
year consisting of 5 continuous months. A total of 160 participants are expected to undergo training.
(b) Strengthening institutional capacity of other MFIs: The program will support training and
follow-up on-site technical assistance to qualified MFIs whose staff have participated in the training
courses. A local consultant (12 person months) will be assigned over three years to carry out his/her tasks
in three slices, each consisting of 4 continuous months in a year. The program will also finance a vehicle,
in addition, costs of training materials and cross visits will be funded. A total of 130 participants are
expected to undergo training.
(c) Pilot RPB: The program will support grooming and capacity building in a successful
cooperative for the first two years of the program, and transforming it in the third year into a rural peoples
bank. Staff training and systems development will be undertaken with the help of a consultant during the
preparatory period. The consultant will also assist in the transformation of the cooperatives into a RPB in
the third year. A key element in this process is the upgrading of the cooperative's financial services
capacity. This will include diversification of the cooperative's credit activities into profitable
microenterprise lending so that it will be able to offset loan losses from agricultural lending against profits
made from microenterprise financing. By broadening cooperatives membership to include
microentrepreneurs and bringing it within the family of the financial system including the supervision, the
rural financial system will be strengthened and be able to contribute to rural development efforts and
enhance and diversify customer services. There is already a successful precedent with an NGO which has
recently been transformed to a rural bank. A local consultant (6 person months) will be financed to carry
out this task. She/he will carry out preparatory tasks in the first year over a continuous period of three
months and actual transformation of the cooperative over three months in the third year. The program
will also fund a vehicle, as well as computers for the proposed RPB.
(d) Loan Agent Scheme: The program will support creation of a new credit line in each of the five
participating Rural Bank/Land Bank branches located in the project provinces to assist informal lenders,
on a pilot scale, for on lending to small farmers and fishers and others under well defined criteria. These
include: selected agents must be respected and of good credit standing in their operational area; they are
limited by shortage of funds to expand outreach; area commanded by the agents has no active
cooperatives or organized groups or NGOs; average loan size will not exceed P1 5,000 and average
maturity not more than 12 months; interest spread not to exceed 10-20%; collateral will be provided by
the loan agent to the satisfaction of the lending bank; the credit line should start from small beginnings to
larger loans not exceeding P500,000 depending on success of previous operations.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Key indicators for monitoring the progress of training and technical
assistance will include:



- 55-
*  Number of staff trained by category, institutions and location;
*  Number of MFIs given on-site technical assistance by type of training course institutions and
location-Cooperatives, RB, CRBs, and NGOs;
*  Number and type of loans disbursed, average loan size by purpose, total loans disbursed and amount
outstanding in each participating institution-RB, CRB and NGO;
*  Number of loan agents assisted together with the names of borrowers, amount, purpose and maturity
period of the loans and also the name of agent, amount of loan approved, purpose and maturity
period.
The Land Bank, with the assistance of the two consultants (Cooperative Specialist and Microfinance
Specialist), will carry out an evaluation of the training and technical assistance programs in terms of
financial viability of the participating institutions, their outreach and service quality. The impact of the
pilot program will be carried out by the Land Bank using external agencies.



- 56-
Annex 2 (d)
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Institutional/Implementation Support (Base Costs US$4.34m)
I.    Background/Key Institutional Issues. The results of the social assessment and experiences
learned from the implementation of the Local Government Code highlight the need to address key
institutional issues which will improve the capacities of various stakeholders and institutions involved in
rural development. Both the national and local government units did not have adequate preparation, and
more importantly, appropriate mechanisms in place, for the implementation of the LGC.
2.     With varying capacities among LGUs, the effectiveness of agricultural and fisheries extension
service suffered. Furthermore, involvement of local communities have not been mainstreamed in the
development planning process; hence local and national development plans have not accurately reflected
the needs and priorities of local communities. For their part, national government agencies, have not also
been very effective in supporting LGUs in building capacities for devolved agricultural and fisheries
extension functions. Criticisms are also being made on the supply-driven nature of agricultural and
fisheries research. In addition, there is a perceived disconnect between the results of research activities of
DA and local universities and colleges and with what goes down at the field level through extension
services which have been perceived as ineffective in most cases.
3.     Design/Objectives. Under the MRDP, institutional capacity building support various
stakeholders involved in the broad spectrum of activities in rural development planning. Such capacity
building, in all instances, would be designed towards achieving certain end results or products which
would help stakeholders realize their potential in fulfilling their respective roles under the devolution.
Intervention will be closely linked to the investment component, thereby re-enforcing the concept of
"learning by doing".
4.     Capacity building activities are designed to address needs of the different rural stakeholders. For
communities and barangays, their roles and capacities will be strengthened to enable them to better
identify, prioritize, design, implement, monitor and evaluate local sub projects (as components of the
overall municipal development plans). As such, communities and barangays will be extensively involved
in participatory planning processes facilitated through social assessment exercises. For municipal and
provincial LGUs, their capacities for rural development planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation, financial management, as well as resource allocation, will be enhanced. This will be done
through technical assistance and closer linkage with the DA at the regional level through building on on-
going work for assessing agricultural potentials and constraints. For regional DA field units, and local
research institutions, their role as providers of technical assistance to LGUs (particularly among devolved
LGU extension workers at the municipal level) will be strengthened. As such, project funds will be
allocated for provision of TA and for forging effective linkages between agricultural and fisheries
research efforts of the DA and local research institutions with the extension efforts of the LGUs and the
perceived priority needs of the targeted communities.
5.    Forms of Interventions. For communities, social assessment exercises will be done by locally
based institutions to enable them to be actively involved in participatory planning.
6.     TA for Rural Development Planning and Resource Allocation. Building on existing activities,
this would provide assistance to LGUs in formulating their respective rural development plans as inputs
to the overall provincial Development Plan and the Provincial Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization
Plan. Designed to provide hands-on/the job training for the PPDOs and MDCs, this intervention would
build on current efforts of the provinces and municipalities in such areas as assessment of agricultural
potentials and constraints: provincial poverty mapping: inventory and evaluation of on-going rural



- 57-
development programs (foreign nationals, or LGU supported); and the routine preparation of 3-5 year
investment programs. This participatory exercise would stretch over two to three months and involve the
following processes: identification of potentials/opportunities and strengths/weaknesses of LGUs;
identification of feasible options given the opportunities; and, the rational allocation of resources
effectively reflecting municipal development priorities with inputs from barangays and communities.
7.    Skills Upgradingfor Agricultural and Fisheries Technicians. This series of seminars workshops
and hands-on activities would aim at keeping the municipal and provincial agricultural and fisheries
technicians abreast of the latest technologies and re-orienting their perspectives in the context of the LGC,
AFMA and the requirements of MRDP. Technicians across 32 municipalities and five provinces of APLI
are targeted for skills upgrading in this area. Depending upon the emerging needs of LGU workers and
their clients, other skills training courses would also be provided under the Program. These would focus
on raising their technical/technological expertise levels such that they become more effective providers of
extension services to the Program beneficiaries. Technological skills training would give premium to
technologies that promote agricultural livelihood diversification, thus minimizing the risks associated
with mono-cropping. The latter continues to characterize the production system in a large number of
communities in Mindanao. Premium would also be accorded to training courses in technologies that
promote soil fertility regeneration, soil conservation and agro-forestry and other environmental friendly
technologies, with a view to contribute to efforts at arresting the continuing degradation of the
environment in many parts of Mindanao. Targeted to undergo training under this category in the first
APL are municipal technicians and provincial field staff in 32 municipalities and five provinces.
8.    Mini-Demonstration Projects for Improving the Linkage Between Research and Extension. This
would enable LGU technicians to put into use their new/enhanced skills, in partnership with the farming
communities in response to their priorities for crop diversification. The project would provide funding for
mini-demonstration projects; these will be spearheaded by LGU technicians in close collaboration with
local universities and colleges and local research stations in order to demonstrate to farming and fishing
communities the applicability of new technologies borne out of activities being done by local research
institutions. About 25 farms should be involved in each municipality and a maximum amount of P10,000
per participating farn will be available to support each demonstration activity.
9.    Skills Upgrading for Support Institutions. Training courses for the field staff of the DA-RFUs
and other support institutions would be provided by the Program, in fulfilling their role as defined in the
Local Government Code, to deliver direct technical assistance to LGUs and the communities. Examples
of courses to be offered would include trainors' training on Program/Project Planning to enable DA to
help build up resource mobilization capabilities among LGUs; and Program/Project Implementation and
Management to develop DA's role in assisting LGUs to build up their internal capability to effectively
implement, manage and monitor agricultural and fisheries projects.
10.   Local and Foreign Study Tours. To complement various training programs in local govemance
and further broaden the rural development perspective of LGUs, local and foreign study tours would be
provided under the Program. The provision of study tours would be linked to performance in
implementing the program at municipality level; better performances will stand to gain more from
undertaking a foreign study tour. Participants would be required to prepare re-entry plans intended to
improve and streamline the systems and delivery of rural development services in their respective LGUs,
as adopted from best practices observed in these cross visits.
11.   Provision of Support Facilities/Equipment. Equipment and vehicles would be provided under the
Program to support the mobility and efficiency of the LGUs, particularly the municipal and provincial
agricultural technicians and engineering personnel. To each of the engineering offices of five provinces,
the first APL would provide field testing equipment and survev instruments. Thirty-two municipalities.



- 58-
on the other hand, shall be provided with drawing instruments, computers with printers, agricultural
extension kits and motorcycles. The motorcycles would be provided to technicians on similar higher
purchase terms as presently practiced.
Monitoring and Evaluation
12.   Introduction and Objectives. The Mindanao Rural Development Program (MRDP) is designed
using the Bank's Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument, which allows more flexibility and
continuity in the provision of long-tern investments in support of poverty alleviation; and also
importantly, allows for the phasing of program support based on absorptive capacities of involved
institutions and local communities. These APL features and the nature of the proposed long-term
engagement in rural development, necessitate a strong system for monitoring and evaluation. In this
context, the MRDP's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) component is being designed to achieve the
following objectives:
*  Enhance the capacities of involved local and national institutions, as well as targeted
communities, in monitoring and evaluation; and
*  Provide a mechanism for assessing the Program's (a) efficiency in delivering its various
interventions; and (b) effectiveness and impacts in achieving its desired objectives and goals.
The M&E component will provide the necessary tool for assessing the fulfillment of key performance
indicators for the Program (See Annex 1: Program Design Summary).
13.   M&E Framework and Structure. Based on the above objectives, the overall M&E framework
is shown in Figure 1. As can be seen, the whole process of planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation are interconnected and must feed into each other. The results of the M&E exercise must
ultimately feed into planning and implementation in order for the Program design to be further fine tuned
to more effectively deliver on MRDP goals and objectives. With the advent of devolution in 1991, the
critical link between local level M&E efforts have been disconnected from the national agricultural and
fisheries planning and implementation goals. Under the MRDP, it is envisioned that a framework to
facilitate the linkage of local monitoring and evaluation efforts, to planning and implementation activities
aimed at realizing the national goals of poverty alleviation, agriculturaUfisheries development, and food
security would be established.
14.   To operationalize the over all M&E framework, the proposed M&E structure will be integrated
into the various levels (national, program, provincial, municipal and community) of MRDP
implementation. Beginning at the community level, beneficiary monitoring will be an important element
of the structure. At the municipal level, the Municipal Planning and Development Coordinator (MPDC)
will be the focal point for M&E, in close coordination with the offices of the municipal agriculturist,
municipal engineer, and the financial staff. At the provincial level, an M&E unit will be developed and
strengthened within the Provincial Planning and Development Office (PPDO), which will coordinate
M&E activities among the offices of the Provincial Agriculturist, the Provincial Engineer and the
Provincial financial staff. The MRDP's Program Coordination Office (PCO), through its Monitoring,
Evaluation and Social Assessment Unit would consolidate all M&E reports, for submission to DA Central
and Regional Field Offices, the World Bank, as well as other concerned oversight agencies.
15.   System Definition. Two systems are being planned for the M&E component of the MRDP.
(i)    A Management Information System (MIS) will be designed and installed in each of the
participating municipalities (community-based M&E will be linked to this level) and provinces as well as



- 9
in the PCO and the DA Central and Regional Field offices. The system will be designed to provide
accurate and timely information to enable program management at all levels to make effective and timely
decisions for maximizing the use of program resources towards the desired objectives of the Program.
The MIS provides a facility for a periodic and systematic monitoring of implementation progress (through
its Operations sub-system) and financial management (through its Financial Operations sub-system) of
the Program. Data collection, processing, analysis and dissemination comprise the various functions
under this system. In view of the varying capacities of LGUs. a simple Excel-based program will be
designed which can be either computerized or implemented manually.
(ii)    A Process and Results Monitoring and Evaluation (PRME) System will be put in place in order
to provide a mechanism for assessing (a) the effectiveness of mechanisms and processes involved in
service delivery; and (b) the resulting impacts of program interventions to intended and unintended
beneficiaries.
16.   Supportfor Institutional Capacity Building. Activities for improving and enhancing the
capabilities of institutions and human resources involved in monitoring and evaluation are built around
the following desired outcomes/products:
(i)    Institutionalization and integration of national and local M&E systems within the framework of
the Local Government Code;
(ii)    Formulation, collection and analysis of critical indicators which would truly reflect the LGUs'
and communities'/beneficiaries' desired impacts and effects out of the MRDP;
(iii)  Integration of M&E outputs/results into various levels of development planning and project
development exercises; and
(iv)   Preparation of periodic evaluation studies to gauge impacts and effectiveness of the MRDP, and
using these as a basis for seminars and workshops at LGU and community level.
17.   In order to achieve the above mentioned desired outcomes for capacity building, workshops,
orientation seminars, technical assistance, hands-on/on-the-job training for M&E staff at all program
levels will be given. In addition, equipment (such as computers, communication and transport facilities,
etc.) will be provided to facilitate M&E work.
18.    Collection of Baseline Data for Various Program Components. Future assessments of the
Program require that a sound database of critical baseline information is created and generated from
various sources prior to start up of Program and sub-projects implementation. The results of MRDP's
social assessments prior to full engagement of provinces in the Program, as well as secondary data from
the compendium of various LGU databases provide an excellent source of baseline infornation. For
specific information which cannot be generated from the social assessments and other published
databases, baseline surveys will be conducted. Examples of baseline information required for each
participating province and municipality would include indicators on poverty, agriculture, community
participation, food security, LGU capacities, effectiveness in allocation of LGU fiscal resources, credit
access, emphasis on infrastructure maintenance, integration of national programs in local plans, etc.
19.    Periodic Evaluation. Evaluation studies will be done in the midyear implementation and last year
of each APL phase. For APL I , evaluation studies will be conducted at the end of Year 2. As a support
to evaluation, baseline studies will be conducted prior to sub-project implementation. Evaluation studies
will be done by competent and independent institutions (such as local universities, private research
groups, etc.) in order to ensure impartiality of study results. Emphasis of the studies would be on
determining (1) efficiency of the manner by which the Program is able to deliver its interventions to
intended beneficiaries; and (2) intended and unintended results/impacts derived from the implementation



- 60-
of the Program. The Project Design Summary contains a list of the key performance indicators (among
other relevant indicators) for the Program which would be assessed during periodic evaluation studies.
Financial Management Improvement Program
A primary objective of the project is the capacity building at the LGU level, for both the
provinces and municipalities. As the project is part of a long term APL, with four phases spanning over
an implementation period of twelve years, an ultimate objective shall be to develop the capacity at
municipality level for project planning, implementation and financial management. The project provinces
are therefore required to develop well defined financial management improvement programs for the
participating municipalities with a view to graduating each municipality to receive and manage funds
directly.
In developing the FMIP, the Provincial FMO should carry out a financial management
assessment of the participating municipalities based on a agreed Financial Management Review
Checklist. The review should determine the adequacy of financial management systems and controls for
the whole of the municipality operations. The review should result in agreeing with the municipality an
action plan to address the deficiencies of the financial management system identified during the
assessment. The action plan should list each weakness or issue/problem, remedial action, responsible
officer for implementing the remedial action and the planned completion date. The action plan should
result in improvements to the financial management system over a reasonable period of time leading on to
the graduation of the municipality to an acceptable financial management capability that would allow
direct receipt of future project fund allocations. The PCO shall be responsible for reviewing the
performance of each province in developing and implementing FMIPs for the municipalities. The FMIPs
shall be modeled on those developed for the provinces with suitable modifications to take into account the
needs/capabilities of each municipality.



- 61-
MRDP- Organizational Structure                               Annex 2(d)- Attachment 1
NATIONAL                                     Program         NEDADOF,
LEVEL                                      Management -      DENR, AR,           DA-CO
Board         DILG, DA, DBM
PROGRAM              Support                 Program
LEVEL                Institutions _          Coordination   - - - - - - - - - - - -  DA-RFU
Office
PDC/Prov.
PROVINCE                                   Prog. Board
LEVEL                                        Governor
PPDO/                  R gional
Institutions-          Program                  NGAs
Coord inator
Institutional                       Financial
Planning          Dev.           M&E Unit             Mgt.           Infra. Unit
Unit            Unit            _             {    Unit
Office of       Office of        Office of         Office of             PEO
PPDO            PPDO & PA        PPDO              Budget Officer
Accountant,
& Treasurer
MUNICIPAL
LEVEL                                        Mavor
|   Suprt     |Municipal
|| Institutionsl  | Program    Office of MPDO
Coordinator
Institutional |Financial
Planning          Dev.           M&E Unit             Mgt.           Infra. Unit
| Unit  |     | Unit   |                              Unit
Office of       Office of        Office of         Office of             MEO
MPDO            MPDO & MAO       MPDO              Budget Officer
Accountant,
& Treasurer
COMM.
LEVEL          POs,                          Barangay                     NGOs
Association/     -          Development                    and Support
Organization                 Council        j              Institutions



- 62-
Annex 2e
Proposed Mindanao Rural Development Program
Annex 2(d) Attachment 2
p-      PLNNING4
|   IMPLEMENTATION
I        I
REliability          and             Timeliness <
EVALUATION
SYSTEM
Accuracy           Consistency
Project                                        Project
Design                                        Manual of
Summary                                       Operations
MRDP Conceptual Fframeworkfor M&E



- 63-
Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Component (US $1.25 million)
The Coastal and Marine and Biodiversity Conservation Component (CMBC) of the proposed
Mindanao Rural Development Project (MRDP) would aim to finance the incremental costs of promoting
coastal and marine biodiversity conservation and sustainable use in the coastal waters of Mindanao,
Philippines. Mindanao has received little attention to date with regard to conservation of its marine
biodiversity resources. The component would be financed by the GEF, and a full report is being prepared
for by its council. It would remove the barriers to mainstreaming marine and coastal biodiversity
conservation in coastal zone development by: (a) establishing community-based management of marine
sanctuaries; (b) strengthening local capacity to address marine ecosystem management issues; (c)
enhancing the knowledge base for sound ecosystem management and decision- making, including
monitoring and evaluation for sustainable long-term marine ecosystem management; and (d) developing
policy and action plans for marine biodiversity conservation and mainstreaming it into coastal
development plans. The basic concept underlying the component is derived the experiences that show that
good marine and coastal resources management can simultaneously conserve and protect biodiversity and
increase fisheries productivity. These activities would have considerable replication potential in
Mindanao as part of the MRDP. The lessons learned during the first three-year phase would be applied
to subsequent phases when additional coastal provinces would be included under the MRDP. The
cumulative experience would be applied to implementation of the CMBC throughout the MRDP. These
lessons would also have applicability in other regions of the Philippines and other tropical countries.
Detailed Features - Phase 1 of MRDP
The design of this component for the first phase of the APL is to focus on assisting activities in two
provinces in Mindanao, Sultan Kudarat and Maguindanao, where other project activities would also be
implemented and could support coastal management. The first phase of the APL would also be used to
work with communities at two sites that were selected via consultation during preparation of the
component to formnulate management plans for the protected areas. The selected sites are: (i) Paril-
Sangay Protected Seascape, Kalimansig, Sultan Kudarat Province; and (ii) Bongo Island, Parang,
Maguindanao Province. Development of these sites under the component would begin during for the first
year of phase 1 of the APL, community consultation would continue with training conducted, and
resource assessment and monitoring initiated at the two selected sites. Lessons learned from these Phase I
sites would be applied at qualifying sites selected for inclusion under Phase 2 with the cumulative
experience applied in subsequent Phases of the MRDP.
* Resource assessment survey of selected conservation sites (Total Cost US$0.87 Million; GEF
US$0. 66 million). This would be one of the first activities to be undertaken where resource profiling
would include the collection and compilation of all relevant information on the biophysical features
of the area, inventory of flora and fauna, and the determination of endangered and threatened species,
in addition to those already identified (Annex D). An initial area plan would be developed that
includes the demarcation of protected area and delineation of the different management zones (e.g.
strict protection zones, sustainable use zones, restoration zones, habitat management zones, multiple
use zones and buffer zones). Under this plan, initial management measures based on the resource
inventory would be recommended. These community-based initiatives may include, but not be
limited to, the imposition of closed fishing periods for certain fish species, particularly during
spawning season, the adjustments/replacement of certain fishing gears, and/or fishing techniques to
conform to environmentally friendly fishing strategies. These assessments and plans would be
coordinated by the Ecosystem Research and Development Sector (ERDS) of the DENR with
assistance from national and international consultants. During this phase, identification of additional
sites for mangrove reforestation is among the activities that would be included.



- 64-
Application of a participatory planning and management process for identifcation and development
of protected areas (Total Cost US$0.12 million; GEF US$0.09 million): It is expected that local
NGOs would be recruited to work toward awareness building about the threats to marine biodiversity
and resultant adverse impacts to fishers' livelihoods. For the first phase of the project, the two sites
noted above that were selected through stakeholder consultation would be planned in detail,
developed and managed through continued community participation. For additional qualifying sites
that would be selected for assistance during subsequent phases of the project, the planned strategy
under Phase 1, with adjustments from lessons learned during that phase, would involve all
stakeholders being consulted and involved in the identification, planning, development, and
subsequent operation to enhance biodiversity conservation and optimal coastal resource use. To
augment local knowledge and experience, representatives from Peoples Organizations (PO) in other
areas in the country (e.g., Bais Bay of Dmaguete, Apo Island, Palompon Leyte, etc.), where
successful coastal marine management and marine protected area experience has concurrently led to
improved biodiversity conservation and greater returns from fishing, would be invited to visit the POs
at the project sites to share their experiences and how obstacles were overcome. Some
representatives from the MCBC sites would also visit the areas of the Philippines where community-
based good management practices have been demonstrated.
* Strengthening of local marine resources surveillance by coastal communities linked to existing
enforcement agencies (Total Cost US$0. 10 million: GEF US$0.06 million): Two activities may be
undertaken, the training of stakeholders in community-based surveillance to complement existing
agencies and the reorientation of the existing enforcement agencies on newly passed laws (NIPAS,
Local Government Code, Fisheries Code, etc.) and regulations. Strengthening of the capabilities of
enforcement agencies is expected with the installation of a community-based radio communications
network in the protected area and the procurement of a chase boat (equipped with binoculars and
cameras with telephoto lenses) to guard each of the two selected areas.
* Resource monitoring and evaluation program (Total Cost US$0.27 million; GEF US$0. 17 million):
Under this component, monitoring would be undertaken by the Ecosystem Research and
Development Sector (ERDS) of the DENR on a yearly basis. Assistance would be provided to the
ERDS by national and international consultants. Basic key indicators would be identified, and data
would be collected to monitor the progress of the conservation area in terms of biodiversity and to
monitor the recovery of damaged habitat. The acquisition of monitoring equipment built into the
project would improve the monitoring capability of the ERDS. Also, during the latter part Phase 1,
monitoring of other livelihood components like mariculture of seaweed, shellfish, and cage fish
culture (independently or in combination) may also be undertaken. Impacts upon water quality would
also be assessed and assisted by the project.
* Assistance to the development of alternative income generating (AIG) activities (Total Cost US$0.23
million; GEF US$0. 14 million): This component would be specifically targeted to benefit those
involved in livelihoods that are particularly destructive to the marine environment. It would also be
complemented by Community Funds for Agricultural Development Component mentioned above. In
this component, the selected NGO (who would be identified in close consultation with the concerned
community and LGUs) would help fishing communities in the identification and development of
mostly water-based alternative livelihood activities. The main target group would be those poor
coastal fishers who practice destructive fishing techniques. Opportunities for AIG activities include
crab fattening, seaweed culture (possible improvement of existing culture techniques and technology),
combination of fish cage with seaweed and/or bivalve culture and the transplantation of giant clams
(Tridacna sp.) Similarly, developmental skills in fish processing may improve products and,



- 65-
therefore, give value added to the fish produced. Bee keeping is another option that can be
conducted, particularly in the vicinity of mangroves. For all activities proposed for grant assistance
under this component, an environmental analysis would be conducted by the DENR/NGO in advance
of approval and implementation, showing each activity would be environmentally benign.
Ecotourism, though considered, may not be a demand-driven option during the first three-year phase
of the project due to instability in the area. The NGO would also assist their respective communities
with the preparation of proposals for grant support from the CFAD of the MRDP, following the
general guidelines for the project.
Training of DENR/BFAR officers, LGU/NGO/PO staff, and schoolteachers as trainers in sustainable
marine andfisheries management (Total Cost US$0. 17 million; GEF US$0.13 million). Those
trained would be educators for fisherfolk, school age children, community leaders, and other
stakeholders in the vicinity of sites selected for assistance under the project. This component would
involve educating all levels of the community in the benefits of marine biodiversity conservation,
sustainable fisheries, and optimal marine resource use. The training of the trainers would be
conducted at one of the higher level education institutions and institutes that have a suitable
curriculum on coastal resources management. Those trained through these sessions would
subsequently conduct workshops and lead classes on the information leamed. These workshops
would be conducted after the trainer consults with the communities on the condition of their
respective coastal resources. From this knowledge base, the trainer would apply the technical
information obtained from his/her training courses on marine biodiversity conservation and coastal
resource management. This training could also include on-site investigations including diving at the
project sites.



- 66-
Annex 2e: Attachment 1
Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Component
Incremental Cost Analysis
Overview
The Philippines has important coastal resources and globally significant marine biodiversity.
Indeed, the coastal waters of the Philippines archipelago support the greatest marine biodiversity in the
world. Many of these resources have been seriously degraded and marine biodiversity serious threatened
particularly in near-shore areas. This GEF-assisted component complements the proposed lBRD-assisted
Mindanao Rural Development Project and aims at promoting marine biodiversity conservation mainly by
mainstreaming it within local fishing communities and Local Government Units (LGU) in the
Philippines.
Context and Broad Development Goals
The GOP has recognized the ecological, economic, and financial importance of preserving its
marine resources. Toward achieving this objective a number of Government Acts and Executive and
Administrative Orders has been formulated and specifically aimed at conserving marine biodiversity and
improving fisheries management. In addition the Coastal Environment Program under the DENR has
been established to specifically address these issues in conjunction with related activities of the
Department of Agriculture's Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Management
Baseline
Under the baseline scenario, it is expected that the stakeholders and fishing communities in the
coastal areas will continue to overexploit coastal resources using destructive methods that will further
threaten marine biodiversity. With the current financial crises confronting the country, the GOP will have
direct, higher priorities of addressing immediate social issues confronting its people. Without external
assistance, the long-term impacts of continued mismanagement by coastal communities could lead to
irreversible damage and permanent losses to the country's endowment of marine resources and
biodiversity, particularly in Mindanao. Under the MRDP, the Community Funds for Agricultural
Development Component (CFAD) would assist in reducing overexploitation of natural resources through
providing financial and technical assistance toward the development of new occupations or significantly
increasing the income from existing activities. The focus would primarily be upon the rural populace
engaged in agricultural activities with few resources going to fishing communities. In the case of the
latter, it would help to reduce pressure on the exploitation of marine resources.
Global Environmental Objectives
The global environmental objectives of the GEF components of this project are to conserve
globally important marine biodiversity and to sustainably manage coastal resources in the Philippines by
mainstreaming marine biodiversity and coastal resource conservation within coastal communities and
LGUs in Mindanao. Importantly, this project will also help develop a model with broader applicability for
mainstreaming biodiversity considerations in a sector with crucial social, economic, and environmental
dimensions in Mindanao and more broadly in the Philippines.



- 67-
GEF Alternative
Under the GEF scenario, substantial information, capacity, and experience will be developed to
promote the mainstreaming of marine biodiversity conservation and sustainable use within the fisheries
sector, particularly at the community level. The GEF approach relies on removing barriers for successful
mainstreaming through demonstration, capacity building, enhancement of the information base for sound
decision making, and policy development in Mindanao as part of the proposed MRDP, where little
attention has been paid in the past to marine resource and biodiversity conservation. The GEF
components will support the piloting of community-based marine sanctuaries to benefit both fishing
resources and marine biodiversity; enhance local capacity for addressing coastal ecosystem management
issues; and enhance the knowledge base for sound ecosystem management and decision-making,
including monitoring and evaluation for sustainable long-term marine ecosystem management. It would
further assist in the demarcation and protection of marine areas with habitats and species of global
importance and assist in their sustained management and protection. Without the CMBC, these marine
biodiversity conservation-related activities would not be implemented in the project area.
A sub-component of the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Component (CMBC)
would provide resources for some alternative income generating activities to coastal fishers but would
particularly target those who are presently engaged in destructive fishing practices, providing them with
alternative and more beneficial livelihood options. In particular, assistance would be provided for coastal
communities to make application for funds for demand-driven activities that would be available under the
CFAD of the MRDP. This will enable coastal communities to change from destructive fishing practices to
more conservation-orientated coastal activities or opt for alternative livelihoods that decrease pressure on
marine resources. It is expected that these pilot activities will have substantial multiplier effects and
provide the foundation for mainstreaming biodiversity considerations within Mindanao's important
coastal resource and fisheries sectors. This would be facilitated by the replication of lessons learned and
best practice models of community management of marine resources in subsequent phases of the
proposed MRDP.
Incremental Costs
The incremental costs are calculated as the difference between the GEF scenario ($6.05m) and
the baseline scenario ($4.8m) and total US$1.25 million.



- 68-
Incremental Cost Matrix for GEF Funding
Component         Cost         Cost US$   Domestic Benefit     Global Benefit
Category    Million*
MRDP IBRD/GOP   Baseline       3.20       Increased
Community Funds                            agricultural
for Agricultural                           production and
Development                                profitability, creation
Component                                  of additional,
estimated for                              diversified
Maguindanao and                            employment
Sultan Kudarat
Provinces only    GEF          3.20        Increased           Access to alternative
(From total MRDP   Alternative             agricultural       livelihood
project $40m)                              production/coastal    opportunities for
communities        fishermen, decreased
livelihoods improved  pressure on global
biodiversity
Institutional     Baseline     1.60       Improvement in the
Capacity Building                          government's
and Program                                capacity to manage
Development                                rural development,
Component                                 reduce poverty.
(Total overall    GEF          1.60       Improved             Mainstreaming
project estimate for  Alternative          government capacity  marine biodiversity
this component is                         to conserve natural   conservation into
US$4 million)                             resources and marine  rural and coastal
biodiversity.       development
planning
Coastal and Marine  Baseline   0           Current fishery
Biodiversity                               harvesting levels
Component                                  maintained, probably
unsustainable
GEF          1.25       Sustained increase in  Enhancement and
Alternative             fisheries production   improvement of
at project sites in 2    coastal habitats for
provinces.         threatened and non-
Improved access of   threatened marine
coastal communities  species of local and
to alternative      global significance
livelihoods.
Baseline    4.80
GEF         6.05
Alternative
Incremental  1.25



Annex 3
PHILIPPINES: MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Projtct Costs
Components Project Cost Summary
Table I
%     % Total
(PhP '000)                        (USS 000)             Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign     Total   Ecchang   Costs
A. Rural Infrastructure Improvements
1. Roads/Access & Bridges                                359,157.6   236,731.8   595,889.4    9,451.5    6,229.8   15,681.3       40      43
2. Communal Irrigation                                   192,878.0    61,126.0   254,004.0    5,075.7     1,608.6    6,684.3      24      18
3. Rural Water Supply                                     29,400.0    19,600.0    49,000.0      773.7      515.8    1,289.5       40       4
4. Capacity Building                                      14,709.8     3,795.3    18,505.0      387.1       99.9      487.0       21        1
Subtotal Rural Infrastructure Improvements                 596,145.3   321,253.1    917,398.4   15,688.0    8,454.0   24,142.1      35      66
B. Community Funds for Agricultural Development (CFAD)     198,522.3    31,712.8   230,235.0    5,224.3      834.5    6,058.8       14       17               0'
C. LGUlProJect Institutional Support
1. Rural Finance/Credit Strengthening                      9,429.0     2,991.0    12,420.0     248.1        78.7      326.8       24        1
2. LGU RD Planning                                        39,759.1     3,626.9    43,386.0    1,046.3       95.4     1,141.7       8       3
3. Financial Mgmt Capacity                                 6,342.0     7,038.0    13,380.0      166.9      185.2      352.1       53       1
4. M&E                                                    12,350.7     3,664.1    16,014.8      325.0       96.4      421.4       23       1
5. Implementation Support                                 53,862.3    38,408.6    92,270.8    1,417.4    1,010.8    2,428.2       42       7
Subtotal LGU/Project Institutional Support                 121,743.1    55,728.5   177,471.6    3,203.8    1,466.5    4,670.3       31      13
D. Coastal & Marine Biodiversity Conservation (GEF)         56,143.6     2,749.7    58,893.3    1,477.5       72.4    1,549.8        6       4
972,554.3   411,444.1  1,383,998.3   25,593.5   10,827.5   36,421.0      30     S00
Physical Contingencies                                    53,979.6    18,452.5    72,432.1    1,420.5      485.6    1,906.1       25       5
Price Contingencies                                      190,898.2    81,121.5   272,019.7    1,859.0      789.4    2,648.4       30       7
1,217,432.0   511,018.1  1,728,450.1    28,873.1    12,102.5   40,975.5   30     113



Annex 3
PHILIPPINES: MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Project Components by Year -- Base Costs
Table 2
Base Cost                                  Base Cost
(PhP '000)                                 (USS '000)
2000       2001       2002        Total      2000      2001      2002       Total
1. Roads/Access & Bridges                                 90,381.2   218,443.6   287,064.6   595,889.4   2,378.5    5,748.5    7,554.3   15,681.3
2. Communal Irrigation                                    77,334.0   119,610.0    57,060.0   254,004.0   2,035.1    3,147.6    1,501.6    6,684.3
3. Rural Water Supply                                      7,000.0    21,000.0    21,000.0    49,000.0  184.2      552.6      552.6    1,289.5
4. Capacity Building                                       8,580.0    5,667.5     4,257.5    18,505.0    225.8     149.1      112.0     487.0
183,295.2   364,721.1   369,382.1   917,398.4   4,823.6    9,597.9    9,720.6   24,142.1
34,663.5    98,954.5    96,617.0   230,235.0    912.2    2,604.1    2,542.6    6,058.8
1. Rural Finance/Credit Strengthening                      6,140.0    2,720.0     3,560.0    12,420.0    161.6      71.6      93.7      326.8            1
2. LGU RD Planning                                        10,096.0    15,700.0    17,590.0    43,386.0    265.7    413.2     462.9    1,141.7           C
3. Financal Mgmt Capacity                                  4,740.0    4,900.0     3,740.0    13,380.0    124.7     128.9      98.4      352.1
4. M&E                                                     4,378.0    4,641.8     6,995.0    16,014.8    115.2     122.2     184.1      421.4
5. Implementation Support                                 38,932.3    29,385.3    23,953.3    92,270.8   1,024.5   773.3     630.3    2,428.2
64,286.3    57,347.1    55,838.3   177,471.6   1,691.7    1,509.1    1,469.4    4,670.3
15,679.4    20,081.1    23,132.8    58,893.3  412.6     528.5      608.8    1,549.8
297,924.4   541,103.8   544,970.2  1,383,998.3   7,840.1   14,239.6   14,341.3   36,421.0
Physical Contingencies                                    22,936.8    31,229.3    18,265.9    72,432.1  603.6      821.8     480.7    1,906.1
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                              25,591.0    72,377.6    92,929.6   190,898.2    673.4    1,904.7    2,445.5    5,023.6
Foreign                                             3,841.9    10,691.2    15,464.2    29,997.4    101.1    281.3     407.0      789.4
Subtotal Inflation                                      29,432.9    83,068.8   108,393.8   220,895.5    774.6    2,186.0    2,852.5    5,813.0
Devaluation                                              7,921.7    18,760.6    24,441.9    51,124.2   -453.5   -1,213.3   -1,497.8   -3,164.6
Subtotal Price Contingencies                              37,354.6   101,829.4   132,835.7   272,019.7    321.0    972.8    1,354.6    2,648.4
358,215.8   674,162.5   696,071.8  1,728,450.1   8,764.8   16,034.2   16,176.6   40,975.5
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                         110,967.8   193,128.3   206,922.0   511,018.1   2,711.7    4,588.6    4,802.1   12,102.5



Annex 3
PHILIPPINES: MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
Table 3
%     % Total
(PhP '000)                        (USS '000)             Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign     Total   Exchang   Costs
e
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Roads & Bridges                       347,790.0   231,860.0   579,650.0    9,152.4    6,101.6    15,253.9      40       42
2. Irrigation                            192,878.0    61,126.0   254,004.0    5,075.7    1,608.6    6,684.3       24       18
3. Rural Water Supply                     29,400.0    19,600.0    49,000.0      773.7      515.8    1,289.5       40        4
Subtotal Civil Works                       570,068.0   312,586.0   882,654.0   15,001.8    8,225.9   23,227.7       35       64
B. Goods
Vehicles                                   6,329.0    16,646.2    22,975.2      166.6      438.1      604.6       72        2
Engineering Equipment                        740.0     3,060.0     3,800.0       19.5       80.5       100.0      81
Office/Other Equipment                     5,126.3    11,310.8    16,437.1      134.9      297.7      432.6       69        1
On-Farm Demonstrations                     8,000.0           -     8,000.0      210.5          -      210.5         -       1
Subtotal Goods                              20,195.3    31,017.0    51,212.3      531.5      816.2     1,347.7      61        4
C. Community Fund                          182,377.5    31,252.5   213,630.0    4,799.4      822.4     5,621.8      15       15
D. Training
1. Workshops & Seminars                   20,102.0     1,155.8    21,257.8      529.0       30.4      559,4        5        2
2. Study Tours                             1,439.2      1,792.8    3,232.0       37.9       47.2        85.1      55        -
3. LGU Cross Visits                          441.6       294.4       736.0       11.6        7.7        19.4      40        -
Subtotal Training                           21,982.8     3,243.0    25,225.8      578.5       85.3      663.8       13        2
E. Technical Assistance
1. Consultants                            80,963.6     5,420.5    86,384.1    2,130.6      142.6    2,273.3        6       6
2. Studies                                 8,028.0       892.0     8,920.0      211.3       23.5      234.7       10        1
3. Project Preparation                    11,998.5       631.5    12,630.0      315.8       16.6      332.4        5        1
Subtotal Technical Assistance              100,990.1     6,944.0   107,934.1    2,657.6      182.7    2,840.4        6       8
F. Incremental Operating Costs
1. Personnel                              53,409.7    12,735.0    66,144.7    1,405.5      335.1     1,740.7      19       5
2. Offce Operating Expenses                9,912.0     5,688.0    15,600.0      260.8      149.7      410.5       36        1
3. Vehicles Operating Expenses             2,251.2     3,106.8     5,358.0       59.2       81.8      141.0       58        -
4. Routine Road Maintenance               11,367.6     4,871.8    16,239.4      299.1      128.2      427.4       30        1
Subtotal Incremental Operating Costs        76,940.5    26,401.6   103,342.1    2,024.8      694.8    2,719.5       26       7
Total BASELINE COSTS                         972,554.3   411,444.1  1,383,998.3   25,593.5   10,827.5   36,421.0      30      100
Physical Contingencies                      53,979.6    18,452.5    72,432.1    1,420.5      485.6    1,906.1       25       5
Price Contingencies                        190,898.2    81,121.5   272,019.7    1,859.0      789.4    2,648.4       30       7
Total PROJECT COSTS                         1,217,432.0   511,018.1  1,728,450.1   28,873.1   12,102.5   40,975.5     30     113



- 72 -
Annex 4
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Economic Analysis
Overview
The economic benefits of the project would result from (i) the rehabilitation of provincial and farm to
market roads and the subsequent savings in vehicle operating costs: (ii) communal irrigation schemes
which will generate an increase in farm productivity; (iii) improvements in the supply of potable water
resulting in increased time-saving from collecting water and reduced incidence of water-borne related
sickness and disease; and (iv) community-based development through the availability of community
funds. In addition, investments to support local government and other institutional capacity building,
as well as to strengthen decentralized and community-based decision making, will facilitate better
implementation of rural development programs, help foster the creation of social capital, and
strengthen staff skills of all implementing agencies at the local level. Given the programmatic nature
of the project's design, and the fact that local communities will be driving the choice of sub-projects in
many instances (for example on the CF component, as well as the selection of rural roads, and water
supply sub-projects), the analysis is based on a modular approach, taking the projects prepared for the
year one program as the basis for estimating the expected economic benefits for the project as a whole.
A strong monitoring and evaluation component is being supported under the project, which will
facilitate a better evaluation of projects put forward for consideration, using the baseline information
being collected, and the actual experience of implementation as a basis for later analysis.
Overall Economic Rates of Return (ERR)
Overall, the proposed project yields an ERR of 22 percent, a net present value of $11.5 million and a
benefit-cost ratio of approximately 1.4 (using a discount rate of 12 percent), over a 20 year period of
analysis. At the component level, the farm-to-market roads investment yields an ERR of 15 percent:
the proposed investments in communal irrigation development generate an ERR of 39 percent;
communal spring development are expected to result in ERRs of around 11 percent; and finally, using
a range of possible investments which the communities may undertake under the Community Fund
component as a basis, the ERR for the component is estimated at 31 percent.
Sensitivity analysis was carried out for each project component to assess how robust the results were
against possible changes to assumptions of key variables. Switching values were calculated for each
component and for the project in its entirety, and the results confirm that the ERRs are relatively
robust to changes in revenues and costs. Overall, total project costs would need to increase by 26
percent or benefits to reduce by 20 percent, for the overall ERR to drop down from 22 percent to 12
percent, suggesting that the program is more sensitive to changes in project benefits than to project
costs. As discussed in more detail below, the respective analyses for different components shows
greater sensitivity to changes in revenues than to costs; to a large extent, reflects the conservative bias
in the assumptions underpinning the analysis. Set out below is a summary of the analysis undertaken
for each component, outlining the assumptions underpinning the analysis and the results. More details
are available in a working paper in the project files.
Rural Roads/Rural Access Improvements
Road Selection Methodology: A multi-criteria approach is used to select sub-project roads to be
rehabilitated under MRDP. Proposed roads will be subject to selection criteria that inciude (i) poverty
targeting; (ii) network approach, (iii) cost-effectiveness criteria; and, (iv) economic analysis. Each one
is briefly discussed below.
* Poverty Targeting. The rural road selection methodology combines social and economic criteria
and relies on a participatory method which involves constituents in the selection process. The



- 73-
participatory mechanism is outlined in the Operational Manual. The average poverty incidence
across the 5 participating provinces exceeds 50 percent. with the province of Agusan del Sur being
an extreme with poverty incidence in excess of 70 percent.
 Network Approach. MRDP adopts a roads network approach which aims to ensure that
rehabilitated project roads will be connected to an all-weather road, thereby maximizing benefits
of the intervention. By ensuring that there are appropriate links between farm to market roads
(usually connecting the poblacion to the barangay center) and larger rural roads (usually
connecting the barangay center to the provincial or national road system), the benefit from
improving a particular road improves the overall use value of the rural road network. Improving
the network generates benefits which reduce the cost of (1) transporting people; (2) transporting
agricultural produce to market; and, (3) transporting non-agricultural goods. In adopting the
network approach, the project focuses on rehabilitating approximately 460 kilometers of farm to
market roads. A smaller number of provincial roads, 40 kilometers, will be rehabilitated to ensure
the entire network is passable. Year I works were proposed by the LGUs at workshops held in
January 1999 and satisfy the selection criteria outlined in Annex 2. Future roads will be selected
by a beneficiary committee using the selection criteria.
* Cost-Effectiveness. In order to ensure that maximum benefits are accrued for a given sub-project,
a cost-effectiveness approach is used. A maximum unit cost of US$20,000 (PhP 760,0001km)
equivalent for the farn-to-market roads has been set. However, the project aims to encourage
LGUs to implement at lower cost by giving a fixed amount of funds thereby allowing a greater km
length to be implemented if at a lower unit cost. Actual cost-effectiveness for a sample of roads
selected for Year I works is presented in Table I (Cotabatu) and Table 2 (Sultan Kudarat). Using
this method, the selection committee will readily see which roads give maximum benefit per
beneficiary (US$/ beneficiary equivalent). Cost-effectiveness, therefore serves as a tool in helping
to select sub-project roads to be rehabilitated. Overall, each LGU participatory committee will
submit proposals which rank roads on the basis of cost-effectiveness, taking poverty class,
cost/population and unit cost into account (see selection criteria defined in Annex 2).
Table I
Cost-Effectiveness of Selected Year 1 FMR in N. Cotabato
Municipality     Aleosan   Banisilan  Banisilan  Antipas  Antipas    Libungan
Road#:                   1         2         3         4          5           6
$Cost1Km           20,000    20,000    20,000   20,000       20,000      20,000
Length (km)             6          4         4         6        4.5          12
$ Cost             120,000    80,000    80,000   120,000     90,000     240,000
Motorized Traffic      67          7        28        82        153          39
Count
Tot. Beneficiaries   2015       1500       825     2100        1650        4640
Condition        Very bad  Very bad  Very Bad       Bad         Bad    Very Bad
US$/Beneficiary        60         53        97 |      57         55          52



- 74-
Table 2
Cost-Effectiveness of Selected Year I FMR in Sultan Kudarat
Municipality      Kalamansig   Lutuyan   Lutayan        Pres Quirino   Pres. Quirino
Road #:                      1         4            5              89
$Cost/Km               20,000     20,000       20,000         20,000         20,000
Length (km)                 10         3            3              4            3.5
$ Cost                200,000     60,000       60,000         80,000         70,000
Motorized Traffic           0         20          N/A             21             26
Count
Tot. Beneficiaries       3000       4365         1625           2520           3055
Condition               V. bad     V. bad       V. bad           Bad            Bad
US$/Beneficiary            67         1 4          37             32             23
* Economic Analysis. Roads selected by the beneficiary committee using the selection criteria and
a cost-effectiveness approach are subject to economic analysis. The threshold for selection has
been set at a minimum economic rate of return of 15 percent (taking into account both quantifiable
and non-quantifiable benefits).
Methodology for Economic Analysis
The methodology for evaluating rural roads is a subject of ongoing debate in the Bank as well as other
organizations. In completing the analysis, the team has drawn on the findings from several other
projects and reports on the subject, to come up with a satisfactory model. It was necessary to ensure
that the model is easy to use in practice and transparent, given the decentralized methods of
implementation and the use of it locally by participatory committees. In all instances very conservative
assumptions are used and it is likely that the benefits are underestimated.
The decision to use the consumer surplus approach over the producer surplus approach is taken given
the practical difficulties of applying the producer surplus approach which often result in
overestimation of benefits and difficulty in monitoring results. Traffic counts used in the consumer
surplus method are (i) easy to collect; and (ii) a direct indicator of the level of economic activity in a
defined area. An increase in traffic on a rehabilitated road clearly indicates the economic benefit from
the improvement. The benefits to new users of the improved road can be approximated by an increase
.3
in traffic and therefore an outward shift in the demand curve for transport with respect to price.
As a general rule, the method of economic analysis undertaken is based on the overall condition of the
road in addition to the traffic count. Given the roads being considered for rehabilitation under the
project, two likely scenarios were found to exist: (I) roads passable by 4-wheeled motorized vehicles;
and, (2) roads not passable by 4-wheel motorized vehicles, but with some existing motorized traffic.
Under scenario 1, quantified benefits are assessed by using the vehicle operating costs (VOC)
methodology. Under scenario 2, where moderate traffic exists on a non-passable road to 4-wheeled
vehicles, but at levels below 60 motorized vehicles per day (vpd)--the rule of thumb cut-off point for
economic viability using the VOC methodology-a generated traffic assumption is made (a minimum
3Alternatively, the producer surplus modeling approach measures total value-added as a result of road
improvement. While CS and PS models should theoretically derive the same economic benefit per kilometer of
road rehabilitated, greater measurement errors in the PS approach make it less attractive than the CS alternative.
This is in part due to a lack of sufficient data on road density per unit area, population and/or production volume
within the area of road influence. Since VOC per kilometer for each form of transport is readilv available from
the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA), and traffic counts were conducted in the project area,
the consumer surplus model is adopted.



- 75-
shift of 10 percent draft animals to motorized transport)4 A second option, incorporating VOC and
the additional quantifiable benefits that arise from increased savings in time for pedestrian commuters
who after rehabilitation works are able to take motorized transport (MT) was also used to assess roads
falling under scenario 2, yielding comparable results. The shift method was chosen in favor of time
saving benefits because of its agricultural context.
Economic Analysis
Using the assumptions set out below, the economic analysis carried out yields the following economic
rates of return: 15 percent (NPV=$1.36 million at 12 percent discount rate) for the entire roads
component; 16 percent (NPV=$0.5 million at 12 percent) for the provincial roads sub-component; and
IS percent (NPV=$1.02 million at 12 percent) for the farm to market road sub-component.
Provincial Roads Model. Economic analysis of the proposed rehabilitation of 40 km of provincial
roads, with a maximum unit cost of $75,000/km, is based on benefits accrued from savings in Vehicle
Operating Costs (VOC). Based on locally available information, a minimum of 150 vpd; and a traffic
mix of 25% Car/Van; 25% Jeepney; 25% Truck; and, 50% Skylabs was assumed, resulting in an ERR
of 16 percent. There are no provincial roads identified for rehabilitation in Year 1. Economic analysis
for actual proposed provincial road improvements will be undertaken using Philippine's Department
of Public Works & Highways (DPWH) model which has been reviewed by the Bank in the context of
the proposed National Roads Improvement and Maintenance Project (NRIMP). DPWH regularly
updates the set of standard vehicle operating costs broken down between (i) distance related costs;
and, (ii) time related costs. Furthermore, the model develops a series of traffic generators which relate
the volume of non-agricultural traffic and passenger traffic to population and road quality. The DPWH
method is not applied to the provincial road sub-component analysis since selection of these roads has
not yet taken place by the participatory roads selection committees.
FMR/ Farm Access Roads ModeL Economic analysis of the FMR/Barangay roads improvements is
undertaken using the Farm Access Roads Model described below. It is based on benefits from savings
in both Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC), and in special cases, includes a generated traffic mix
assumption. A maximum unit cost of $20,000/km (Php 760,000/km) for rehabilitation and $700/km
(Php 26,6001km) for routine maintenance is used. The overall EIRR for this sub-component is 15
percent.
I.     Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) Savings: Where roads are currently passable by 4 wheeled
motorized transport, benefits are estimated on the basis of savings in Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC).
However, two cases exist: (i) where motorized traffic exceeds the rule of thumb minimum count
necessary to achieve an ERR of 15 percent; and (ii) where motorized traffic falls short of that
minimum. The table below summarizes the cut-off Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) levels
needed to achieve a minimum ERR of 15 percent under various traffic mix assumptions, given a per
kilometer investment cost of $20,000 (Models 1-3). In cases such as Model 3A, where the traffic is
insufficient to justify the intervention at the maximum unit cost, it is expected that the per kilometer
cost will be reduced by revising specifications or applying lower cost spot-rehabilitation. This
provides an efficient and more cost-effective outcome, where access is restored to a sufficient level,
but at a reduced cost that takes into account the actual existing use of the road. For the purpose of
project road selection and for this analysis which assesses the economic viability of selected year I
roads, actual traffic count and traffic mix data is used. The economic returns for a selection of Year 1
4A statistical test was conducted using data from 17 proposed roads under the project. The data includes the
traffic count of mechanized and non-mechanized traffic, the number of pedestrians and the condition of the road
(passable or non-passable to motorized 4-wheel transport). A positive and significant correlation was found to
exist which suggests that as roads become more passable. there is a greater use of motorized traffic and less non-
motorized (carabao sled and draft animal) traffic. The Pearson correlation coefficient was found to be 0.63 and
significant at 10 percent for draft animals and 0.66 and highly significant for pedestrians.



- 76-
FMR roads show that traffic counts of 67 vehicles per day (vpd) yield an ERR 16 percent; 82 vpd
(ERR of 21 percent) and 153 vpd (ERR of 37 percent) in North Cotabato; 79 vpd (ERR of 20 percent);
64 vpd (ERR of 21 percent); and 80 vpd (ERR 26 percent) in Sultan Kudarat. with the range of ERRs
attributed to the variations in the actual mix of traffic.
Economic Look-up Table for Economically Viable Investments on FMR
(15% EIRR)
Farm Access Roads Model for Passable FMR
Scenario     Traffic Mix                   Maximum Unit Cost        Cut-Off
AADT
Model 1: VOC      Skylab 25%; Jeepney 25%;          $ 20,000              55
Car/Van 25%; Truck 25%       (Php 760,000/km)
Model 2: VOC      Skylab 50%; Jeepney 20%;          $ 20,000              62
Can/Van 20%; Truck 10%       (Php 760,000/km)
Model 3: VOC      Skylab 80%; Jeepney 10%;          $ 20,000              70
Car/Van 10%; Truck 0%       (Php 760,000/km)
Model 3A: VOC     Skylab 80%; Jeepney 10%;          $ 10,000              40
Car/Van 10%; Truck 0%       (Php 380,000/km)
2.    Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) & Traffic Shift Savings: Where FMRs are currently not
passable to 4 wheeled motorized transport, as expected, motorized traffic counts are low. The use of
VOC savings alone, therefore, does not reflect the full benefit of opening the road. The traffic counts
on these roads show a high proportion of draft animal/agricultural goods haulage traffic relative to
those roads where the road is currently passable to 4 wheeled, mostly jeepney, traffic. For the purpose
of the analysis, it is assumed that for currently non-passable roads, there will be some transfer of non-
motorized animal load traffic to a motorized mode of transport resulting in a VOC savings due to a
more economical mode of transport. Essentially, this results in a traffic mix change from high cost
non-motorized forms of traffic to lower cost motorized forms of traffic.
The models are based on the following assumptions:
*  Road Condition: The model indicates the likely costs and benefits from rehabilitating a "typical"
project road. As per project selection criteria, the typical farrn to market or Barangay road
identified by the project has a gravel or packed earth surface and is in very bad/bad condition.
Moreover, several project roads have stretches that are impassable and therefore require major
reconstruction. It is assumed that rehabilitation of rural roads under the project will bring the
typical project gravel road to a good condition.
*  Rehabilitation/Routine Maintenance: The maximum estimated cost of rehabilitating a FMR gravel
road from very bad/bad to good condition is US$ 20,000/km (PhP 760,000/km), with the annual
routine maintenance cost assessed at US$ 700/km (PhP 26,600/km). The project aims to build
local capacity to ensure routine maintenance, and it is assumed that, once rehabilitated, the rural
roads will be maintained at good condition.
*  Investment Period: A 20 year life-span for a rehabilitated road maintained regularly by labor-
based methods (see the Operations Manual for details) is assumed. Road rehabilitation
investments commence in year I and routine maintenance in year 2. Benefits accrue from the time
when the project road is rehabilitated.
*  Traffic Count: Traffic counts (including pedestrians, bicycles and draft animals) have been
completed on the selected Year I roads: I I FMR in North Cotabato province and 17 FMR in
Sultan Kudarat province in January 1999. The counts were undertaken from 6:00 AM to 6:00PM
on a market day and a non-market day. On average, on a market day there were 89 vehicles per
day (vpd) in North Cotabato and 78 vpd in Sultan Kudurat. On non-market days there were 51
vpd in North Cotabato and 56 vpd in Sultan Kudurat (see the project files for an overview of



- 77-
traffic counts by province). While an annual increase in traffic of 5 percent is assumed here for the
Year 1, the actual traffic growth rate in the province will be used in assessing the viability of
future roads investments.
* Weighted Average Dav: Given the fact that traffic numbers vary between market and non-market
days weighted averages were used by assigning a weight of (1/7th) for the weekly market day and
(6/7'") for an ordinary non-market day, the six remaining days of the week. The weighted average
was found to be approximately the same in each province, namely, 56 vehicles per day on the
typical project road in North Cotabato and 59 vehicles per day on the typical project road in Sultan
Kudarat.'
* Traffic Mix (FMR): From the existing traffic count, the proportion of each vehicle type travelling
during daylight hours on a market day and non-market day was determined and weighted to give
an average mix. In North Cotabato, approximately 34 percent of the daily traffic was draft
animals on market day. Of the motorized traffic, approximately 84 percent was motorized tricycle
or skylab, 8 percent was passenger jeepney, 3 percent was jeep/car/van, and 5 percent was some
form of truck (pick-up, tractor-trailer). In Sultan Kudurat, approximately 59 percent of the daily
traffic was draft animal (carabao). Of the motorized traffic, approximately 66 percent was
motorized tricycle or skylab, 3 percent was passenger jeepney, 7 percent was jeep/car, and 24
percent was some form of truck (pick-up, tractor-trailer). While it is likely that there may be a
change in traffic mix thus resulting in increased benefits from more cost-effective formns of
transport, this benefit has not been included in the analysis. No benefits have been assigned to
savings in VOC for NMT.
* Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC): Analysis of the per kilometer cost associated with operating each
type of motorized and non-motorized vehicle travelling on rural roads in the Philippines is
conducted by Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and tabulated by the National
Economic Development Authority (NEDA) on a regular basis. The model therefore uses the
DPWHINEDA assessed costs, denoted in 1998 Pesos per kilometer (see project files).
* Traffic Shift (Mix) Change: A statistical analysis of 17 proposed roads under the project was
undertaken. It shows a positive and significant correlation was found to exist which suggests that
as roads become more passable, there is a greater use of motorized traffic and less non-motorized
(carabao sled and draft animal) traffic (Pearson correlation coefficient was found to be 0.63 and
significant at 10% level). While this result does not prove causality, it is likely that after
rehabilitation, there would at least be a modest 10% shift from non-motorized transport to
motorized transport. In later project years, it will be possible to measure actual shifts in the project
supported roads, which will then provide the basis for the analysis.
* Standard Conversion Factor (SCF): To convert financial investment costs and VOCs to economic
costs, the standard conversion factor of 0.8 is adopted. A conversion factor of 0.60 is used to
estimate the economic value of labor; and 0.75 to determine the economic cost of routine
maintenance.
Results. The model yields an ERR greater than 15 percent for all road interventions. This estimate is
conservative as it does not take into account economic and social benefits, which are more difficult to
quantify. The additional economic and social benefits enjoyed by populations inhabiting areas along
or near rehabilitated roads fall into the following categories: (i) improved access to both input and
output markets; (ii) reduced transport time in hauling agricultural produce to market; (iii) reductions in
accidents and deaths; and, (iv) wider development benefits (i.e. usually measured in terms of increased
agricultural production).
Sensitivity Analysis. The analysis for the overall roads component suggests that benefits would need
to be lower by 14 percent, or costs 16 percent higher for the ERR to drop to 12 percent. More detailed
switching value analysis of the farm to market road component indicates that for the ERR to fall to 12
percent, benefits from (i) VOC savings would have to be 22 percent lower: or (ii) projected traffic
This excludes pedestrians and bicycles travelling on the typical project road.



- 78-
shift/mix changes would have to decrease by 34 percent. On the cost side, road rehabilitation and
routine maintenance costs would need to increase by 18 percent and 95 percent, respectively for the
component to become economically unattractive, keeping other factors constant. Given the project
design to encourage municipalities to adopt least cost approaches to roads rehabilitation, a 25 percent
reduction in the per kilometer cost of FMR rehabilitation (from $20,000 to $15,000) would result in an
ERR of 22 percent. It is important to note that the base case analysis takes the most conservative
assumptions, both in terms of adopting the higher unit costs for investments and the lowest possible
benefit stream. Importantly, a delay in completing the rehabilitation works by one year (and a
subsequent delay in the respective benefits by one year) would reduce the ERR to 12 percent; any
further delay would make the component economically not viable. The likelihood of this occurring is
extremely low, given the considerable preparatory work done up front, and the fa'ct that the
procurement processing for the year Iprogram is already well underway prior to negotiations.
Communal Irrigation Improvements
The project will support small scale communal irrigation by: (i) rehabilitating existing gravity schemes
which are no longer functional or are inefficient (4,350 ha); and (ii) selectively, constructing new run-
of-river communal irrigation projects (855 ha). Overall, the rehabilitation of existing schemes will
enable farmers to shift from unimproved irrigation (and in some cases, allow for bringing additional
rainfed areas into the service area) to improved irrigation, generating an increase in cropping intensity
as compared to the present situation. The construction of new schemes would enable farmers to shift
from lower value corn production to higher value paddy; and shift from rainfed paddy with minimal
yields to irrigated paddy with substantially higher yields per hectare. Based on estimations presented
in the feasibility studies prepared for each of the 35 schemes to be supported under the project, the
average farm size per scheme was found to be 1.56 hectares; the average number of households served
per scheme is 114 (684 individuals), with approximately 6 members per household. Moreover,
approximately 75 percent of the fartners to benefit from the project operate on land holdings of less
than 2 hectares. The project, therefore, targets the smallest, and consequently the poorest farmers in
the region.
Quantifed & Non-Quantifed Benefits. The impact of the proposed irrigation improvement
interventions is estimated using a simple model. The model examines the benefits that arise from: (i)
an overall increase in the area of land under irrigated crops (i.e. an overall increase in cropping
intensity); (ii) more reliable and timely availability of water which would have a positive impact on
yields; and (iii) a shift in the cropping pattern, from crops of lesser value (i.e. corn) to those of higher
value (i.e. rice). It is likely that progressive farmers that benefit from the shift from non-irrigated to
irrigated land would diversify their crop portfolio and grow higher value crops such as vegetables.
However, these benefits are not taken into account in the analysis.
Methodology. Key assumptions of the model are outlined below:
* Model structure: Only benefits accrued to the farm area brought from unimproved irrigation to
improved irrigation are considered under the analysis that focuses on project rehabilitation; yield
increases in other parts of the scheme are not taken into account. All agricultural area falling
within the influence area of a newly constructed scheme is considered in the assessment of new
construction.
* Investment cost for construction/rehabilitation: The estimated financial cost ceiling for
constructing new communal irrigation schemes is PhP 100,000 per hectare; the cost ceiling for
rehabilitating existing schemes is PhP 75,000 per hectare.
* Cropping intensity. The model assumes that with project (WiP) there will be 100% cropping in
the wet season and 100% cropping in the dry season; in the without project (WoP) scenario, the
cropping intensity is assumed to be 70% in the wet season and 60% in the dry season. Presently,



- 79-
cropping intensities of 75% in the wet season and 60% in the dry season are not uncommon in the
influence area of the project.
* Full development benefits: The analysis assumes that full development benefits for newly
constructed communal irrigation systems occur in the third year for those areas likely to move
from rain-fed paddy to irrigated paddy; fourth year for those areas likely to move from corn to
irrigated paddy. Full development benefits for rehabilitated systems are accrued in the year
immediately following rehabilitation works. These assumptions are based on a review of the
operation of other irrigation interventions in the region.
* Conversion factors (ECF): The SCF for the Philippines is 0.80. It is used to translate the financial
cost of the two types of intervention, namely construction of new schemes and rehabilitation of
existing schemes to the economic cost. Moreover, it is used to adjust the financial prices of key
inputs to economic prices. For paddy, corn and fertilizers, economic farmgate prices have been
estimated, based on projected world market prices. For agricultural labor and threshing, a shadow
wage was estimated;6 based on that, an average conversion factor of 0.60 is used for the analysis.
Results of the Analysis: Based on the above assumptions, the ERR for the irrigation component is
estimated at 39 percent (NPV of US$8.2 million, at a discount rate of 12 percent). The component for
rehabilitation is estimated to generate returns of nearly 40 percent, while the construction of new
schemes is expected to yield an ERR of 26 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis: The switching values for this component suggest that the ERR is robust to wide
changes in revenues and costs for both rehabilitation and new construction of communal irrigation
schemes. The economic value of paddy production would need to fall by 39 percent, or investment
costs would need to rise by 65 percent, for the ERR of this component to drop to 12 percent.
Improvement of Water Supply Systems
The project will support improvements in rural water supply in both upland and lowland communities
in the participating LGUs. The expected impact of the component is assessed using a simple model
developed below. The analysis is based on benefits generated from avoided costs with the project, and
the following assumptions:
*  Benefits: The benefits estimated for spring development are derived from: (i) savings in time for
fetching potable water, and (ii) avoidance of waterborne diseases. Both these will result in
additional income generating work days for beneficiary households. Non-quantified benefits
include increases in beneficiary household productivity as a result of the availability of water as an
input for household activities and other social benefits.
*  Costs: The capital cost of Level I (point-source) spring development is estimated at approximately
PhP 350,000 per facility. Under the project guidelines, unskilled labor required for annual
operation & maintenance (O&M) of spring rehabilitation will be provided by the beneficiary
barangay. Moreover, it is proposed that the cost of materials required for routine and annual
maintenance of the spring be borne by the barangay. Each beneficiary barangay will form a user
group to assess the unit water charge applicable to each of the 60 beneficiary households per unit
spring development. The estimated imputed annual O&M cost of Php 2000 per unit, and initial
construction costs for a spring facility of Php 350,000 is used in this analysis: the SCF of 0.80 is
used to restate financial/imputed costs in economic terms.
Based on the above, an economic rate of return of approximately 11 percent is estimated.
6 For the purpose of this analysis. the shadow wage for agricultural labor was taken as the number of days per
year that labor is fully employed in the area, multiplied by the daily wage rate at those times, and divided by the
number of working days per year.



- 80-
Community Fund Sub-projects
As outlined earlier in this report, the CF will finance demand driven sub-projects which are consistent
with DA's program and priorities for supporting agricultural and fisheries development, to address the
diverse priorities of communities. Sub-projects under the CF would comprise of a broad spectrum of
activities to be undertaken with the direct participation and financial contribution of beneficiaries. The
demand driven nature of the component implies that communities will determine the scope of each
subproject funded. Accordingly, neither benefits nor costs can be accurately identified ex ante. Based
on experience with ongoing DA programs, as well as the outcome of the social assessment, the core
sub-projects for which demand can be expected include: small works, such as multi purpose
pavements, trails, hanging bridges, nurseries, hatcheries, etc.; small equipment, material and supplies
to support farming activities; small ruminants for cattle fattening and poultry; plants, seed, and local
technical support. Each of the 32 municipalities identified under APLI will be involved in
implementing this component; for the purpose of the analysis, a few likely sub-projects are analyzed in
some detail.
Methodology and Results: Using a modular approach, the impact of four likely CF interventions is
estimated, which include (i) a tree crop nursery, (ii) post-harvest facilities (solar drier, small storage
facility), (iii) a tilapia hatchery, and (iv) a tilapia pond. The overall CF model examines the cost (not
exceeding the maximum amount allotted for a given community) and the benefits that arise from each
subproject, individually, and then collectively as an entire component. Using the results of these
models as a basis, the economic analysis suggests that given investment resources of PhP 2.5 million
per municipality and the accompanying technical assistance needed to support the CF component, the
overall EIRR with project scenario would be 31% (NPV=$2.6 million at a 12 percent discount rate).
Sensitivity Analysis: Switching values calculated for the CF component shows that benefits would
need to drop by 15 percent and costs to increase by 18 percent for the ERR to fall below 12 percent.



- 81-
Annex 5
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
LGU Fiscal Analysis
The Fiscal Analysis examines the sources that finance rural infrastructure development
activities in LGUs, and analyzes the fiscal impact of the project on the national government and
Mindanao LGUs.7
Sources of Funds for Rural Infrastructure Development
Rural development activities in LGUs are supported from several funding sources, often under
different terms and conditions: (i) the LGUs own internal revenue allotments (IRA), and more
specifically, the 20% Development Fund (DF), which is directly controlled by LGUs; (ii) the
Department of Agriculture (DA), using national government budgetary allocations, to support rural
infrastructure development in LGUs, with allocations controlled by the DAs Office of the Secretary
(OSEC) and to a smaller degree, the Regional Field Units (RFUs); (iii) Similarly, the National
Irrigation Authority (NIA) budgetary funds are used for supporting investments on irrigation schemes
(and connecting farm-market roads, if necessary) and are controlled by each province's Provincial
Irrigation Office (PIO); (iv) DA and NIA funds, and subsequently any RID investment projects at the
local level financed from these sources, are not currently devolved to the LGUs.
The fiscal analysis found that between 85-90% of expenditures rural infrastructure within an
LGU are presently being financed by the national government (mainly, DA, NIA) budget. This
suggests that at least in the context of rural development, devolution has been sluggish. Under the
Local Government Code, most of the responsibilities for agricultural development have been devolved
to local governments. However, the absence of effective transition arrangements made at the time of
enacting the Local Government Code, and the institutional weaknesses of many LGUs, effective and
sustainable rural development has been impeded.
Portfolio of Rural Infrastructure Development Investments in Mindanao LGUs
It is difficult to assess with accuracy the level of investment on rural infrastructure at the
municipal and barangay LGU level due to inadequate record keeping at these levels of government.
Analysis of the investment portfolio of rural development activities (i.e. farm to market roads,
communal irrigation systems, water supply) in Mindanao provinces and municipalities; the sources of
these resources (i.e. LGUs, NGAs); and, the manner in which they are made available to communities
yields the following conclusions:
(i)    On average, less than 60 percent of investments for the construction and rehabilitation of
farrn-market roads were financed by provincial LGUs, using their IRA resources (DF); DA's OSEC
financed 27 percent; NIA/FAPs financed 15 percent. An important feature of LGU investment in
roads is the relatively high allocation for the construction of concrete roads, thereby leaving few
resources for supporting the rehabilitation and construction of lower cost gravel farn-market roads;
and virtually no resources allocated for routine maintenance.
7 A comprehensive analysis is found in the project files.
Analysis of the data suggest that DAs Office of the Secretary directly controls approximately 85 to 95 percent
of DA program funds, while only 5 to 10 percent is allocated to RFUs and directly under their control.



- 82-
ii)    Virtually no LGUs allocated resources to support investments in communal irrigation.
Presently, NIA sponsors 78 percent of all construction and rehabilitation costs of communal irrigation
systems in provincial LGUs, and DA funds represented 21 percent of the total:
(iii)   All rural water supply systems developed in each province were financed by provincial LGUs;
(iv)   The Department of Agriculture provided around 85 percent of the investment funds for the
construction of solar driers/post-harvest facilities in provincial LGUs;
(v)    While the level of investment activity in each provincial LGU varies, the share of
infrastructure investment by source, however, remains relatively constant. The pattern of investments
in rural infrastructure development activities by source at the municipal LGU level follows a similar
pattern to that of the Provincial LGUs; although the level of total RID investments in municipal LGUs
($215,000) is approximately 8 percent of those at the provincial LGU ($2.69 million).
Financing Arrangements
Funds for the various projects would flow through the Municipal Development Fund Office (MDFO),
which would complement equity contributions from the LGU and from subproject beneficiaries. To th
extent that LGUs opt to borrow, to meet their equity commitments, the lending terms and conditions of
MDF prevailing at the time of the signing of the sub-loan agreement would apply for the loan
component, and the loan would be subject to the approval by the MDFO-PGB9.
In various ongoing projects, the Government has often used the LGC Economic Classl as a
proxy to reflect the relative wealth or poverty of an LGU, and the basis for according priority in
receiving ODA support. It has also guided the terms on which ODA assistance is made available by
the national government (for example, grant or loan). Available data, however, conftrms that LGC
Economic Class on its own is not a good basis for guiding resource allocation decisions, if the
objective is to promote increased rural development and poverty alleviation. Statistical analysis of
data for 24 Mindanao provinces confirms that there is no significant correlation between poverty
incidence and LGC Economic Class.11 The table below illustrates the various indices used to assess
the economic welfare of inhabitants of the five provincial LGUs included in the first APL. As can be
seen, both North Cotabato and Agusan del Sur, while being class 2 LGUs, have a high incidence of
poverty (higher than the class 3 provinces of Sultan Kudarat and Maguindanao), being in excess of 70
percent in the case of the latter.
9 Currently, the lending terms are: a maximum maturity of 15 years, including three years of grace, at an interest
of 14 percent.
' Economic Class is based almost entirely on a three year average of an LGU's IRA, since the proportion of
IRA to total income exceeded 90 percent in Mindanao's provincial and municipal LGUs, on average. As the IRA
is determined on the basis of an LGUs land area, population and equal share. it becomes increasingly clear that
the LGC Economic Class is not sufficient as an indication of poverty.
" The Pearson correlation coefficient was found to be (p= 0. 18).



- 83-
POVERTY PROFILE FOR SELECTED APL 1 MINDANAO PROVINCES
'MBN   Philippine Mindin Poverty   Incidence Poverty    % of   LGC
Index  MBN        ao     Incidence  Rank    Magnitude Total   Economic
Provinces           Rank       MBN   (% of                 ('000       Families Class#
Rank  Families)             families)   _
North        0.428   4         3       52.9       27        60         1.9     2
Cotabato
|Sultan      0.522   16        13      50.6       33       28         10.9     3
Kudarat
Maguindanao 0.391   2          2       47.7       41       43          1.4     3
Agusan del   0.496   11        9       70.8       7         35         1.1     2
Compostela  0.598   34         18      47.2       42       NA          NA      I
Valley  **  III                                  IIII
Notes: a) lower ranking (i.e. 1,2,3 ) denotes "poorer"; # lower value denotes higher income class; b)
Data are unavailable for Compostella Valley as it is a newly demarcated provincial LGU, carved out
of Davao del Norte; the data shown above are taken from the records for the old Davao del Norte
province.
To guide the proposal for an appropriate mix of loans and grants the above mentioned fiscal
analysis was done for the initial two provinces which showed that over 90 percent of the expenditures
incurred on rural development within a municipality, and on rural infrastructure more specifically
(rural roads, irrigation, post harvest facilities, water supply), are presently being financed from
national government budgetary resources, i.e. from the DA. Of the rural infrastructure categories,
LGUs are meeting a relatively higher share of FMR related costs, though virtually none of it goes
towards regular maintenance; rather than look to these resources to counterpart a higher share of the
additional investments under the project, it is proposed that LGUs be encouraged to reallocate these
resources towards the maintenance of roads, something which is presently totally neglected. These
considerations, together with the prevailing poverty in the participating provinces, their ability to take
on significant additional debt obligations, and the commitment of the national government to support
targeted programs aimed at poverty alleviation and securing food security for the poorer segments of
society, are important factors underpinning proposals on cost sharing outlined below.
Category            GrantVLoan Mix         The loan/equity share of the LGU will
include its share of counterpart resources
NGA   Loan/  Benefic.    during implementation, as well as a
Grant  Equity             commitment to take on a part of the Bank
- FMR             80%     20%               Loan. The share of project costs financed
Irrigation             60%     10%     30%       by the national government under APL 1,
Water Supply           70%     20%     10%       should come from within DA's
Maintenance - Infra            100%              budgetary ceiling. Within the long term
Community Fund         45%     45%     10%       APL context, it is proposed that the share
Technical Assist.      90%     10%               of NGA support for the specific
Training/Community     90%     10%               components be progressively reduced,
Support                                          with the expectation that the APL I LGUs
Project Management     60%     40%               should be bearing a substantial share of
the total costs by APL 4. For example,
their share in financing FMRs could be increased from an average of 20 percent under APLI (as
proposed above), to say 40 percent in APL2, 60 percent in APL3, and 80 percent in APL4. New
provinces joining the program in APL2 could follow a similar graduating path.



- 84-
Fiscal Impact
The fiscal impact of the project will be result from various sources. Firstly, the program will
result in an increase in national and LGU fiscal resources being allocated to support rural development
in the initial group of 5 provinces. Over the life of the project, the DA will be required to commit an
estimated US$5.7 million, by way of counterpart funds, while the 5 provinces and 32 municipalities
will, together, be required to provide an estimated US$45.5 million towards the financing of the
project. In taking a programmatic approach, and by supporting ongoing DA programs, it is proposed
that the project's demands on national level counterpart funds should largely be absorbed within the
annual budget envelope. On the part of the LGUs, the demand for counterpart resources would arise
in financing all of the components. The analysis of LGU fiscal resources shows that, at a global level,
and taking into account projects increases in IRA resources, LGUs should be able to meet their
financial commitments towards the project. Their ability to do so in a timely manner, will provide an
indication of their commitment to the program. It is possible, that a few poor municipalities may have
difficulties in the initial stages, given prevailing commitments to ongoing programs. In such cases, it
will be important for the municipal LGUs to work closely with the provincial LGUs in meeting their
counterpart fund commitments, and more importantly to look for opportunities to reallocate available
IRA resources, away from less efficient and community responsive uses towards the project.
In addition to the above, a significant positive fiscal impact can be expected from the project
as a result of improved rural development planning, increased community participation, and new and
better ways of allocating fiscal resources by LGUs while supporting rural development priorities
viewed as important by rural communities. In addition, based on experience elsewhere, greater
efficiency in resource use can be expected with the implementation of the $17.0 million rural roads
components by contract rather than force account. Similarly, given that community-based setting of
priorities and execution of project should be more efficient, the implementation of the CFAD
component should generate significant efficiency gains in the use of DA and LGU fiscal resources.
These benefits should multiply exponentially, as more LGUs join in implementing the program.



- 85-
Annex 6
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
Procurement Methods (Table A):
Procurement under IBRD Loans will follow the World Bank guidelines "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 and the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and
revised September 1997 and January 1999.
There are several conflicts between the procurement procedures of the Republic of the Philippines and
those which are acceptable to the World Bank. These include but are not limited to:
* Bidding opportunities are only advertised in the local press, whereas the Bank's NCB procedures
require advertising in the national press;
* Bracketing is used whereas this will not apply, unless specifically agreed by the Bank in advance
of bidding;
* Pre-qualification of contractors is practiced whereas the Bank considers pre-qualification only to
be necessary for large or complex works and not applicable for small contracts envisaged under
this project.
These conflicts are fully addressed in the Supplemental Letter Representations and Assurances on
Procurement to the Loan Agreement and are also in the Operations Manual. The Borrower is required
to conform with this agreement and waive all procedures unacceptable to the Bank.
Works. Procurement of works for the rural roads/access and rural water supply sub-components will
be undertaken by the respective LGUs. Procurement of works for the communal irrigation sub-
component will be undertaken by the National Irrigation Authority (NIA). Procurement of works for
small community infrastructure under the communal fund component will be undertaken by
beneficiary communities with the involvement of the multisectoral committees and LGUs.
Goods and Consultant Services and Training. Procurement of goods and consultants services and
training to be provided at the Program Coordination Office (PCO) level will be undertaken by the
PCO and made available to the respective LGUs for implementation support, their institutional
development and capacity building.
(1)    Works. Civil works include rehabilitation and upgrading of rural roads, communal irrigation
and levels I and II water supply systems and construction of small community infrastructure. The
Operation Manual includes sample bidding documents developed in compliance with the World Bank
procurement guidelines and specifically designed for very small works.
International Competitive Bidding There will be no International Competitive Bidding for
Civil Works since those works are small - maximum subproject cost is US$ 200,000, scattered
geographically and not technically complex and unlikely to be attractive to international bidders
(international bidders are however not excluded).



- 86-
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (Rural roads, Part Al) Works less than US$1 million
equivalent per contract shall be procured with National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
acceptable to the World Bank up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 11.9 million equivalent.
Average size of contract is US$ 100,000. There are several NCB bidding procedures of the Philippines
which are not acceptable to the Bank. These are fully addressed in the Supplemental Letter to the
Loan Agreement and are also in the Operations Manual. This will be used for roads.
Procurement of Small Works (Rural roads, Part Al and water supply Part A3) Works less than
US$100,000 equivalent per contract, simplified procurement procedures, of national shopping among
registered contractors, may be allowed up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 4.5 million.
Quotations would be solicited from at least three registered contractors. This will be used for roads
and water supply.
Force Account (Irrigation, Part A2) The National Irrigation Authority (NIA) would also be
allowed to undertake the implementation of irrigation works by force account up to US$ 8.2 million in
the aggregate. Works are small and scattered in remote locations (in some cases, facing peace and
order problems) for which qualified construction firms are unlikely to bid at reasonable prices. NIA
has considerable experience with this, using both force account and sub-contracted piece work
arrangements with farmers and the local communities (community participation). Approximately 35
schemes are proposed with an average size of scheme of US$ 200,000. NIA shall draw-up a "Pakyaw
Agreement" with the winning labor group following its existing systems and procedures in "Pakyaw"
contracting and payment will be made against such contracts.
(2)    Goods. Goods and equipment to be procured under the project's institutional development
and capacity building component include agricultural extension kits, materials for on-farm
demonstrations, surveying instruments, vehicles, computers and office equipment.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) Goods less than US$200,000 per contract will be
procured according to NCB procedures acceptable to the World Bank up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed US$ 0.7 million.
National Shopping Goods less than US$50,000 per contract will be procured according to
national shopping procedures acceptable to the World Bank up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$0.8 million. National shopping should be based on comparing price quotations from at least three
suppliers. Requests for quotations should indicate the description and quantity of the goods as well as
the desired delivery time and place.
(3)    Community Funds: (Part B) would comprise a broad spectrum of activities to be undertaken
with the direct participation and financial contribution of the beneficiaries. The main purchases to be
made would consist of construction material for small works, such as multi purpose pavements, trails,
nurseries, etc., small equipment, material and supplies, small ruminants for fattening and poultry,
plants and seed, and local technical support. The grouping of these purchases would not be feasible
because they involve different operators and scattered beneficiaries in remote areas. Procurement of
works, goods and services for individual contracts under this component are expected to be small,
given that the total Community Fund allocation for a particular municipality is foreseen to total
Peso2.5 million (or about US$65,000); most projects are likely to be less than US$4,000 each. The
total cost of this component is estimated at US$ 5.9 million.
Community Participation in Procurement is justified in the interest of project sustainability
and to achieve the social objectives of the project. It is desirable to call for the participation of local
communities and/or non-government organizations (NGOs), to increase the utilization of local know-
how and materials, and employ labor-intensive and other appropriate local technologies. Procurement
would be undertaken according to procedures to be defined in the Operational Manual. The World



- 87-
Bank would not be involved in the approval process for every contract and disbursement at the
municipal level.
While Procurement of Smaller Works and National Shopping procedures for goods and
services would be applicable, works, goods and services less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract,
may be procured by direct contracting to communities and NGOs up to a cumulative maximum of
US$ 5.9 million equivalent. As a safe guard, the total value of contracts that can be awarded through
direct contracting to any one community or NGO would be limited to US$300,000 equivalent.
(4)    Consultants Services and Training: About US$ 2.9 million and US$1.6 million would be
allocated to consultants services and training, respectively. Consultant services shall be procured in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised September 1997 and January
1999, and using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposal - Selection of Consultants dated July 1997
and revised April 1998. Any contract above $200,000 must be advertised in the Development Business
requesting Expressions of Interest prior to developing a shortlist. In view of the unique knowledge of
the local environment and communities, there was agreement that local, government owned
universities and research institutes could be contracted under the project, to undertake specific tasks,
for example related to social assessments and program monitoring and evaluation.
Quality and Cost -Based Selection (QCBS). The selection of firms would be based on quality-cost
based selection (QCBS) procedures. This includes technical assistance for rural infrastructure
implementation support, amounting to $380,000, the procurement of which will be coordinated
through the PCO.
Single source selection. Consultancy services less than $20,000 per contract (for a maximum of
US$50,000 for one NGO hired under this procedure) to be provided by accredited NGOs, for very
small assignments or assignments in remote areas, would be procured through single source selection.
Contracting of NGOs through single source selection is estimated to cost about US$ 475,000 . It
includes the following types of assignments in connection with the community fund component:
community organizing, and providing services to communities to prepare sub-project proposals.
Individual Consultants The selection of individual consultants would be based on their qualifications
for the assignment (Section V of the Guidelines). They may be selected on the basis of references or
through comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached
directly by the Borrower. Examples of individual consultant support include a micro-finance specialist
($104,000), cooperative specialist ($130,000) and rural banking specialist ($52,000).
(5)    Operating Costs: About US$ 2.2 million would be allocated to cover the incremental
operating costs related to managing the project, including staff travel and office utilities. They would
be procured according to normal commercial procedures. Salaries and Fees of Personnel would be
contributed solely by the National and Local Governments Units who will contract and pay for
personnel services estimated at US$ 1.6 million. The procurement of these personnel services, funded
by the Borrower, would be done by the Borrower using its own procurement procedures.
Review of Procurement
The project satisfies the World Bank's minimum procurement management requirements.
Prior Review Threshold (Table B):
Each contract for works and goods more than US$ 100.000 per contract and procured according to
National Competitive Bidding (NCB); the first works contract per LGU each year and the first three



- 88-
(3) goods contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Prior review of works and goods
include bidding documents, evaluation reports and draft contracts. Procurement by Force Account and
Community Participation is not subject to prior review. Prior review for works and goods would
cover about 39 percent of the combined value of civil works and goods.
Individual consultants contracts equal to or larger than US$50,000 equivalent and estimated to total
about US$0.2 million equivalent and contracts of firms equal to or larger than US$100,000 equivalent
and estimated to total US$ 1.0 million will be subject to the World Bank's prior review. All terms of
reference, sole-source contracts, contracts of a special nature for consultant services final contracts
when substantial differences to the original draft are made and would be subject to prior review.
Financial Management Assessment
Accounting in the Philippines. The accounting policies and standards applicable to the government
and local government (LGUs) institutions are regulated by the Commission on Audit (COA) which
has the statutory authority to determine policy and standards. COA is also responsible for independent
audits of government agencies. The Chart of Accounts used is standard across all institutions. The
main objective of financial reporting is budget control at various levels of Government. The spending
departments submit annual budgets which are reviewed by the Departmnent of Budget Management
and incorporated in the annual General Appropriations Act submitted to the Congress. Following
approval of the Act, budget authorizations are provided quarterly to individual ministries and LGUs.
Cash allocations are provided by the Treasury based on DBM authorization. The accounting system is
generally considered adequate.
The principal weaknesses in the system can be summarized as follows: (i) the system does not
provide for adequate project financial management; as indicated earlier, primary focus is on budget
control; (ii) the financial reporting, particularly at LGU level, is not timely for sound management
control; and (iii) many LGU units are staffed by inexperienced accounting staff resulting in weak
financial management. In order to address these issues, COA has developed with Bank assistance a
Project Financial Management System (FISFAP) under an IDF grant. The system is currently being
pilot tested in several central and local government units before its universal introduction for all
foreign funded projects. The Bank is also assisting COA to develop a Project Financial Management
Training Program to train government accounting staff.
Assessment of Central Government Project Agencies. There are four central government agencies
associated with the Project: the Department of Agriculture (DA), the Municipal Development Fund
Office (MDFO), the National Irrigation Authority (NIA) and the DENR. The DA, MDFO and DENR
will be responsible for providing budgetary allocations, channeling funds to project implementing
agencies, management of the Bank's Special Accounts and the general oversight of project
implementation. DA is the Lead Implementing Agency responsible for the Project. MDFO is an arm
of the Department of Finance mandated to provide facilities for the transfer of resources from the
national government to LGUs. NIA will be responsible for the implementation of the community
irrigation component. The DENR will be responsible for the implementation of the CMBC
component in collaboration with DA/BFAR. All the agencies follow accounting policies and
procedures approved by COA as described above. DA, DENR and MDFO are managing the Special
Accounts of several on-going Bank-financed Projects, and NIA is also implementing Bank-financed
projects.
The financial management systems of all four agencies suffer from the inadequacies generally
applicable to the public sector. These are being addressed through the Bank/COA sponsored FISFAP
program. In addition, the Bank is financing the restructuring of the MDF through the recently
approved Local Government Financial Development (LOGOFIND) Project. Financial management



- 89-
improvement is considered an important element of the restructuring. All four agencies are considered
to have accounting systems meeting the minimum requirements of the Bank.
Assessment of Project LGUs. A financial management assessment of two provinces, North Cotabato
and Sultan Kudarat was carried out by Bank FMS staff. The assessment included visits to two
provincial government offices and nine municipal government offices of the two selected provinces.
The organization of the finance departments of both the provincial and municipal governments is
standard. The finance function consist of three departments: Treasury, Budget and Accounting. The
functions at the Provincial LGUs were better organized and staffed by adequate and qualified staff. In
contrast, almost all of the municipal finance functions were considered weak and in many cases not
adequately staffed and will require significant improvements before they could be considered eligible
to handle project funds. A detailed report of the financial management assessment is in the project
files.
Financial Management Arrangements
Financial management capacity building will be an important project objective and the financial
management arrangements are designed to achieve this. For APL 1, all financial management for the
LGU component of the Project will be centralized at the Provincial level. The FMS assessment of the
two initial provinces, North Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat found their accounting systems as meeting
the minimum requirements as determined by OP/BP 10.02. An action plan to computerize the
accounting system and improve the budget planning and project financial reporting has been agreed.
In addition, TA shall be provided to build capacity at the Provincial level to carry out financial
management improvement of the participating municipalities within the Province. The three central
agencies associated with the Project - DA, NIA and MDF, are similarly subject to financial
management capacity building under other Bank financed initiatives.
Certification of participating LGUs. The Program Coordination Office (PCO) will have a finance
function headed by a qualified professional and adequate support staff to oversee the financial
management of the project implementing agencies. As the proposed project is an APL and provinces
and municipalities will be joining the project as implementation proceeds, it will not be feasible to
carryout financial management assessment for all prospective participating units at the beginning of
the Project. PCO, in collaboration with MDFO/BLGF, will be responsible for FMS assessment of the
Provinces that will be joining the project during the remainder of APL 1. The assessment should be
modelled on the assessments carried out for Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat. The assessment should
result in the PCO certifying the eligibility of the Provinces to receive project funds before any loan
proceeds are disbursed. In the case of Provinces with weak financial management systems, the PCO
head will develop a time bound action plan to improve the systems. Financial Management
Improvement Programs (FMIP) developed for the two pilot provinces will be used as models for
developing FMIPs for future provinces. The PCO shall submit the FMS assessments of the Provinces
and any FMIPs agreed for Bank review and no objection before authorizing disbursement of Project
Funds.
The Provincial Finance Staff, with the assistance of the PCO, and in collaboration with the
MDFO/BLGF, will be required carry out FMS assessment of all participating municipalities and agree
a FMIP for each municipality. A model FMIP for one of the participating municipalities has been
developed. Agreement has been reached to complete FMIPs for the remaining ten municipalities of
the two pilot Provinces. Provincial finance staff and the PCO will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of FMIPs. The Bank will review annually the progress in achieving improvements in
financial management at both the Provincial and municipal LGUs.
Funds Flow and Accounting. The World Bank funds will be chanieled through two conduits, viz.
MDF and the DA; the GEF Grant funds would go through DENR. In all the following cases, MDF



- 90-
and DA will advance from its own sources adequate working funds for project disbursement. The
Bank funds will be disbursed against claims of reimbursement of sub-project expenditures. The fund
flow and the accounting arrangements are structured as follows:
(a) The Municipal Development Fund will be used for channeling funds for the Rural
Infrastructure component to: the Provincial LGUs which will manage funds and related accounting on
behalf of project implementing municipalities; and to NIA, which is responsible for implementing the
community irrigation component.
(b) The MDF will also channel funds for the Community Fundfor Agriculture Development
component directly to implementing municipalities. Although the municipalities do not have adequate
financial management systems, a recommendation is made to channel Bank funds directly for the
following reasons. First, the amount of funds involved is modest (less than $40,000 of Bank funding
per municipality). Second, and more importantly, the proposal underpins the basic objective of the
program of creating capacity at the municipal levels to receive and account for funds, and reinforce the
participatory context of the program. The use of these funds will be closely supervised by the
Provincial LGU and the PCO, and Bank funds would be disbursed against approved sub-projects.
(c) The funds for Institutional/lImplementation Support will be channeled through the
Department of Agriculture (DA); while the GEF Grant funds for the CMBC component will be
channeled though DENR.
The MDF, DA and DENR will maintain the Bank's Special Accounts for their respective
components. On authorization of budget allotment by DBM, funds not exceeding three months of
estimated expenditures will be advanced by the MDF out of its own resources to the participating
PIAs. The PlAs will request replenishment of funds from MDF from time to time based on
submission of Statement of Expenditures. MDF, DA and DENR will be responsible for submission of
Withdrawal Application to the Bank for replenishment of the Special Account.
The PIAs will be responsible for maintaining all accounting records. In case of the expenditure
incurred on behalf of municipalities, the Provincial Government will be responsible for all
disbursement and accounting for loan funds except for the Community Fund for Agriculture
Development which will flow directly to the municipalities. The Provincial Accounting Departments
will maintain a separate bank account for each municipality for project receipts and disbursements.
The province shall maintain separate books for accounts to record project transactions for each
participating municipality as well as its own account. All supporting documents shall be properly filed
under a good filing system. The PCO will be responsible for consolidating the project accounts for
submission to MDFO and the Bank. The participating municipalities will be responsible for
maintaining separate accounts for the community funds. The municipalities will open a separate bank
account to deposit funds received from the MDF and account for all disbursements. The
municipalities will prepare annual financial statements and submit to the Provinces and PCO.
The accounting for project components to be implemented by DA, NIA and DENR will be maintained
by the respective agencies. They will be responsible for maintaining separate bank accounts and
separate project accounts. All quarterly and annual financial reports shall be submitted to PCO for
consolidation.
Reporting The PlAs (Provincial LGUs and other implementing agencies) will be responsible for
preparing annual budgets and quarterly project management reports (PMR) required under the Bank's
LACI requirements. Initially, the following reports will be prepared by each PIA: (i) a summary uses
and sources of funds (Report I-A of PMR); (ii) uses of funds by project activity (Report I-B); and (iii)
Procurement Monitoring Reports (Reports 3 A, B, C and D). The PCO will consolidate these reports
and in addition produce, annually, a Project Balance Statement of Affairs.



- 91-
Audit. COA will be responsible for the annual audit of all PlAs and the consolidated financial
statements prepared by the PCO. audit of the withdrawal applications and the supporting SOEs and
documentation and the operations of the Special Account. The consolidated audited financial
statements prepared by the PCO will be submitted to the Bank within six months os the end of the
project financial year. To enable the PCO to meet this deadline, the PlAs will submit the audited
accounts for their respective areas of responsibility to the PCO within three months of the end of the
financial year. The annual audit will be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the Audit
Manual for World Bank-Financed Projects issued by East Asia & Pacific Region in July 1998.
Financial Management Improvement Program for the Municipalities
A primary objective of the project is the capacity building at the LGU level, for both the
provinces and municipalities. As the project is an APL, with four phases spanning over an
implementation period of about fifteen years, an ultimate objective shall be to develop the capacity at
municipality level for project planning, implementation and financial management. The project
provinces are therefore required to develop well defined financial management improvement programs
for the participating municipalities, with a view to graduating each municipality to receive and manage
funds directly from MDF for development projects.
In developing the FMIP, the Provincial FMO in collaboration with the BLGF and the MDFO
should carry out a financial management assessment of the participating municipalities based on a
agreed Financial Management Review Checklist. The review should determine the adequacy of
financial management systems and controls for the whole of the municipality operations. The review
should result in agreeing with the municipality an action plan to address the deficiencies of the
financial management system identified during the assessment. The action plan should list each
weakness or issue/problem, remedial action, responsible officer for implementing the remedial action
and the planned completion date. The action plan should result in improvements to the financial
management system over a reasonable period of time leading on to the graduation of the municipality
to an acceptable financial management capability that would allow direct receipt of future project fund
allocations.
The PCO shall be responsible for reviewing the performance of each province in developing
and implementing FMIPs for the municipalities. The FMIPs shall be modeled on those developed for
the provinces with suitable modifications to take into account the needs/capabilities of each
municipality.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan would be made against expenditure categories as shown in
Table C.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
For civil works and goods contracts below US$100,000, consulting firm contracts below
US$100,000 equivalent, individual consultants contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, grants and all
administrative, operational and training expenditures, withdrawal applications will be supported by
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). For civil works and goods contracts over US$100,000 equivalent,
consulting firms contracts over US$100,000 equivalent and individual consultants contracts over
US$50,000 equivalent, withdrawal applications shall be supported by full documentation and signed
contracts.



- 92-
Special Account (SA)
To facilitate loan disbursements, Special Accounts (SAs) will be established with MDFO, DA,
and DENR to finance all project related expenses. The MDFO, DA and DENR will open and
maintain separate special deposit accounts, in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this
purpose by the Banko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. The SAto be opened by MDFO which
would cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories, would have an
authorized allocation of US$1.8 million with an initial withdrawal of US$1.0 million to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited in the respective SA. The balance shall be withdrawn when the
amounts disbursed and committed total US$9.0 million. The SA to be opened by DA which would
cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories would have an
authorized allocation of US$ 200,000; similarly, the SA to be opened by the DENR would cover
eligible expenditures covered by the GEF Grant, and would have an authorized allocation of
US$100,000. Applications to replenish the SA, supported by appropriate documentation, would be
submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn
equal 50 percent of the initial deposit. The SAs shall be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the
Bank.



- 93-
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                            Procurement Method a/                      Total Cost
Category                                                                          (including
contingencies)
National     Small      Other      National   N.B.F e/
Competitive  Works                 Shopping
Bidding
(1) Works                 11.9         4.5      9.6 b/                 0.5 f/       26.5
(9.5)       (3.6)      (7.7)                 (0.0)       (20.8)
(2) Goods                 0.7                                 0.8                    1.5
(0.6)                               (0.7)                  (1.3)
[0.1]                 [0.1]
(3) Community Funds                             5.9 c/                               5.9
(3.2)                              (3.2)
(4) Consultants'                                2.7 d/                    1.8        4.5
Services and Training                           (1.5)                    (0.0)       (1.5)
[1.15]                              [1.15]
(5) Operating Costs                             0.3 d/         0.5        1.8        2.6
(0.3)        (0. 1)     (0.0)       (0.4)
(6) Front-end Fee                                0.3                                 0.3
(0.3)                               (0.3)
Total                      12.6        4.5       18.8          1.3        4.1       41.3
(10.1)      (3.6)     (13.0)        (0.8)      (0.0)     (27.5)
[1.15]        [0.1]                [1.25]
Note:  a/ Figures in (...) are the amounts to be financed by the World Bank loan; figures
in [...] are the amounts to be financed by the GEF grant.
b/ Includes civil works to be procured through Force Account/Community
Participation by National Irrigation Authority U$ 8.2 million (US$ 6.6 million);
and water supply US$1.38 million (US $ 1.1 million) to be procured by
Community Participation in Procurement methods.
c/ Includes items to be procured for the Community Funds component as outlined
under Community Participation in Procurement section.
d/ Consultancy services, services of contracted staff of the project coordination
office, training, and incremental operating costs related to (i) coordinating the
activities of the project, (ii) and LGU institutional development and capacity
building.
e/ N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed includes contributions to the project by the central
and local govemment in terms of staff services, and GEF grant funds
f/ routine maintenance works on roads to be funded by the relevant LGU



- 94-
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                       Selection Method
Services                                                                Total Cost
Expenditure   QCBS   QBS    SFB        CQ    Single   Other  N.B.F.    (including
Category                                     Source                   contingencies)
A. Firms         0.5                      1.2                            1.7
(0.5)                   (0.6)                          (1. 1)
[0.2]                          [0.2]
B. Individual    0.5                      1.0                   1.3      2.8
Consultants     (0.0)                    (0.4)                  (0.0)    (0.4)
[0.5]                   [0.5]                           [1.0]
Total     1.0                      2.2                   1.3      4.5
(0.5)                   (1.0)                  (0.0)    (1.5)
[0.5]                   [0.7]                           [1.2]
Note:    QCBS=       Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS =      Quality-based Selection
SFB =      Selection under a Fixed Budget
CQ  =      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Single Source Selection not to exceed $100,000 per assignment
Other = Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in (...) are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan; figures in [...] are the
Amounts to be financed by the GEF grant.



- 95-
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value           Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)               Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total
Value Subject to
Prior Review
US $                                       US $ million
(1) Works             Less than $ 1 million  National Competitive      All Contracts more
Bidding (NCB)              than $100,000 (3.2)
Less than $100,000    Procurement of Small      First Contract per
Works - simplified bidding  LGU each year (6.0)
Not applicable        Force Account             No prior review
(2) Goods             Less than $200.000     National Competitive      Contracts more than
Bidding (NCB)            $100,000 (0.3)
Less than $50,000     National Shopping         First 3 Contracts
including for NCB
(0.04)
(3) Community Funds    Less than $50,000     Community Participation   No prior review
direct contracting for
communities and NGOs
(4) Consultants'
Services and Training
Individual            Less than $50,000      Single Source             None
More than $50,000     Single Source             All (0.2)
Firm                  Less than $100,000     Single Source             None
More than $100,000    QCBS                      All (1.0)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 10.84



- 96-
Annex 6, Table Cl: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$million   Financing Percentage
(1) Works                                                19.9                 80
(2) Goods under:                                                     100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
(a) Rural Infrastructure Component                    0.1        local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and
(b) Institutional/Implementation Support              1.1        90% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3) Community Funds                                      3.3                  55
(4) Consultants' Services and Training under:
(a) Rural Infrastructure Component                    0.2                 100
(b) Institutional/implementation Support              0.9                 100
(5) Incremental Operating Costs for:
(a) Calendar year 2000                                0.2                 30
(b) Calendar year 2001                                0.2                 30
(c) Calendar year 2002                                0.1                 30
(6) Front-end Fee                                         0.3
(7) Unallocated                                           1.2
Total             27.5



- 97-
Annex 6, Table C2: Allocation of GEF Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount (Expressed in    Financing Percentage
SDR Equivalent)
(1) Goods                                       105,000           100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and
90% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2) Consultant's services                       680,000                   100
(3) Training, study tours, and workshops        100,000                   100
(4) Incremental Operating Costs of DA for:
(a) Calendar year 2000                         3,700                    70
(b) Calendar year 2001                         3,700                    70
(c) Calendar year 2002                         3,700                    70
(5) Incremental Operating Costs of DENR for:
(a) Calendar year 2000
3,700                   70
(b) Calendar year 2001
3,700                    70
(c) Calendar year 2002
3,700                    70
(3) Unallocated                                  92,800
Total      1,000,000



- 98-
Annex 7
Philippines: Mindanao Rural Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Bank Budget                                  US$310,000           US$314,600
B. Project Schedule                            Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        8                    9
First Bank mission (identification)           04/20/1998           04/20/1998
Appraisal mission departure                   05/10/1999           05/30/1999
Negotiations                                  07/15/1999           08/23/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 01/01/2000           01/15/2000
Prepared by: Staff from the Department of Agriculture (within the Project Management Office
in Mindanao), and from Local Government Units (LGUs) in North Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat
provinces, with consultant assistance
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Rahul Raturi                             Team Leader/Economist
Mary Judd                                Anthropologist
Sally Burninghamn                        Roads Engineer
Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron               EconomistlM&E
Wijaya Wickrema                          Financial Management
Ronald Zweig                             Agricultural Ecologist
Dominic Aumentado                        Procurement
Joseph Reyes                             Financial Management
Pawan Patil                              Economist/YP
Margaret Png                             Legal Counsel
Hung Kim Phung                           Disbursement Officer
Uma Lele                                 Peer Reviewer
Christina Malmberg-Calvo                 Peer Reviewer
Matrice Denny                            Team Assistant



- 99-
Annex 8
PHILIPPINES: MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Mindanao Rural Development Program (MRDP): Feasibility Study of APL I - Final Report;
Prepared by MRDP Team and Consultants, March 1999
Implementation/Operational Manual, covering:
*    Rural Infrastructure
*    Community Fund
*    Monitoring and Evaluation
*    Social and Environmental Assessments
*    Overall Program Implementation
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Bank Mission Aide Memoires, and related Back to Office Reports
*    Identification Mission - April/May 1998
*    Post Elections Follow-Up Mission - July 1998
-    Preparation Assistance Mission - October/November 1998
-    Pre-Appraisal Mission - February/March 1999
-    Appraisal Mission - May/June 1999
Power Point/Slide Presentations on Program Design for Consultations/Wrap Ups; Associated
with Bank Missions
LGU Financial Management Assessment - Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat LGUs, December
1998
Detailed Project Costs
Working Papers on Fiscal Analysis, Project Economic Analysis
C. Other
Video of Consultations/Workshops on Program Design, Held during July 1998, with DA, and
LGU and local leaders in Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat Provinces.
Social Assessment of Sultan Kudarat; Prepared by the University of Southern Mindanao
Agricultural Research Center, November 1998
Social Assessment of Cotabato; Prepared by the University of Southern Mindanao
Agricultural Research Center, November 1998
Development Challenges Amidst Natural Abundance: The Results of the Social Assessment
(Qualitative Component) for the MRDP; Prepared by the Cotabato Agribusiness Development
and Technology Center (CADTEC), Inc., December 1998
MRDP: Social Assessment andAnalysis for Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat; May 1999;
Prepared by Maria Ines Pinat Bagadion (Consultant), in association with the University of
Southern Mindanao, and CADTEC
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Philippines
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 128
Active Projects
PH-PE-39022     1999   PHILIPPINES                       LGU URB&WATER SANITA                    23.30        0.00         0.00             23.07         -.23        0.00
PH-PE-48588     1999   REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPIN         LGU FINANCE AND DEV                    100.00        0.00         0.00            100.00         0.00        0.00
PH-PE-56524     1999                                     BANK'G SYS REF (FSAL                   300.00        0.00         0.00            200.00         0.00        0.00
PF-PE-57598     1999   LBP                               RURAL FINANCE III                      150.00        0.00         0.00            150.00        30.00        0.00
PH-PE-57624     1999   DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE P         PRIVATE ENT CREDIT                     150.00        0.00         0.00            150.00         9.00        0.00
PH-PE-4566      1998   REP OF PHILS                      EARLY CHILD DEV.                        19.00        0.00         0.00             18.10         1.10        0.00
PH-PE-4576      1998   GOP                               WATER DISTRICT DEV.                     56.80        0.00         0.00             56.80        17.70        0.00
PH-PE-4595      1998   GOP                               COMMUNITY BASED RESO                    50.00        0.00         0.00             48.50         5.40        0.00
PH-PE-51386     1998   GOP                               SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND                      10.00        0.00         0.00              8.22         2.22        0.00
PH-PE-37079    1997   GOP                                AGRARIAN REFORM COMM                    50.00        0.00         0.00             42.60         5.90        0.00
PH-PE-40981     1997   SUBIC BAY METRO. AUTH.            SECOND SUBIC BAY                        60.00        0.00         0.00             57.63        48.62        0.00
PH-PE-4602      1997   REP OF PHILS.                     THIRD ELEM EDUCATION                   113.40        0.00         0.00            110.33        52.49        0.00CD
PH-PE-4613      1997   GOP                               WATER RESOURCES DEVE                    58.00        0.00        0.00              52.64       27.64         0.00
PH-PE-4571      1996   GOP                               TRANS GRID REINFORCE                   250.00        0.00         0.00            152.67         7.83        0.00
PH-PE-4611      1996   GOP                               MNLA 2ND SEWERAGE PR                    57.00        0.00         9.00             47.00        42.00         .30
PH-PE-4614      1996   LBP                               RURAL FINANCE II                       150.00        0.00        0.00              24.07      -19.93         0.00
PH-PE-4567      1995   GOVT OF THE PHILS                WOMENS HEALTH B SAFE                     18.00        0.00        0.00              14.66        5.66         0.00
PH-PE-4584      1994   NPC AND PNOC                      LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMA                   211.00        0.00        10.97             14.80       25.75        14.78
PH-PE-4607      1994   GOV OF PHILIPPINES                LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERM                   227.00        0.00       49.67              27.45       77.09        27.42
PH-PE-4568      1993   GOP                               URB HEALTH & NUTRITI                     0.00       70.00        0.00              47.28       38.43         0.00
PH-PE-4589      1993   GOP                               IRRIG OPER SUPP II                      51.30        0.00        0.00              18.72       18.73         0.00
PH-PE-4538      1992   GOP                               SECOND VOCATIONAL TR                     0.00       36.00        0.00               8.77        7.83         0.00
PH-PE-4592      1992   GOP                               MUNICIPAL DEV III                       68.00        0.00        0.00              24.74       24.75         3.48
PH-PE-4597      1992   GOP                              HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT P                    150.00        0.00        0.00              29.83       31.03         4.70
PH-PE-4558      1991   GOVT. OF PHILS.                   ENV. & NAT. RES. MGT                   158.00       66.00        0.00              14.49       11.21         0.00
PH-PE-4572      1991   ROP                               COMMUNAL IRRIG. II                      46.20        0.00        6.58               8.56       15.17         -.81
PH-PE-4552      1990   R.P.                              COCONUT FARMS DEVT.                    121.80        0.00          .85             28.60       29.45        22.05
Total                                                                                         2,648.80      172.00       77.07           1,479.53      514.84        71.92
Active Projects       Closed Prgjects          Total
Total Disbus oed (IBRD and IDA):              1,276.74            6,906.49            8,183.23
of which hlas been repaid:                 58.10           3,875.89            3.933.99
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               2,685.63            3,050.61            5,736.24
Amount sold                      :                0.00               31.35               31.35
Of which repaid              :                 0-00               31.35               31.35
rotal Undisbursed               :             1,479.53               19.98            1,499.51
a. Internded disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disburse,ent data is updated at the end of the first week ot the month and Is currently as ot 30-Jun-99.



- 101 -
Philippines
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
0/97/98              Far East Bank          70.00   15.00    0.00   50.00   47.36   15.00    0.00   50.00
1967/88               MERALCO                 6.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1970/86/88/89         PLDT                    8.74    0.00    0.00    7.39    8.74    0.00  - 0.00    7.39
1974/79               Maria Cristina          0.00     .44    0.00    0.00    0.00      .44    0.00    0.00
1979/90               General Milling         0.00    1.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.73    0.00    0.00
1980/82/89/90/94/95   AACT                   18.22    2.73    0.00    0.00   18.22    2.73    0.00    0.00
1989                  H&QPV-I                 0.00     .61    0.00    0.00    0.00      .61    0.00    0.00
1990                  Avantex Mill            5.63    1.98    0.00    0.00    5.63    1.98    0.00    0.00
1992                  Bacnotan                2.80    5.63    0.00    2.00    2.80    5.63    0.00    2.00
1992                  Pilipinas Shell         0.00    0.00   10.57    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.57    0.00
1993                  H&QPV-II                0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1993                  Pagbilao               45.00   10.00    0.00    7.00   45.00   10.00    0.00    7.00
1993/94               Mindanao Power          0.00    4.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.26    0.00    0.00
1994                  Walden Mgmt             0.00     .05    0.00    0.00    0.00      .05    0.00    0.00
1994                  Walden Ventures         0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00
1995                  Sual Power             30.00   17.50    0.00  196.00   26.10   17.50    0.00  157.50
1996                  All Asia Growth         0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  All Asia Manager        0.00     .04    0.00    0.00    0.00      .04    0.00    0.00
1996                  All Asia Venture        0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01    0.00    0.00
1998                  Drysdale Food          15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  H&Q PV III              0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00
1998                  Pryce Gases            13.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  TRP                     0.00     .05    0.00    0.00    0.00      .05    0.00    0.00
1999                  UPPC                   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   27.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 245.29   77.78   10.57  262.39  199.25   71.53   10.57  223.89
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  BATAAN P/E             30.00    0.00   10.00  163.00
1999                  CEPALCO                16.00    0.00    6.00    0.00
1997                  MAGSAYSAY LINES         8.00    3.00    0.00   26.50
1967                  MANILA ELECTRIC         0.00    0.00    0.00      .36
1998                  PRYCE GASES             0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1997                  PT&T                   30.00    5.00    0.00   30.00
1999                  UPPC                    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1998                  2-Feb                   0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
Total Pending Commitment:          84.00    8.00   29.00  234.86



- 1(22 -
ANNEX 10
Philippines at a glance                                                               917199
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asla &   middle-
Philippines    Pacific  Income     DOevelopment damond-
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      75.1     1,817       908                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  1,050       990     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     78.9     1,802     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        2.3       1.2       1.1
Laborforce(%)                                         2.7       1.6       1.5     GNP           .                  Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1992-98)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of populathon below national poverty line)  38
Urban population (% of totalpopulatbon)                57        35        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       68        69        as
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lOve births)               35        37        38-
Child malnuttion (% of childnen under 5)               30        20         . .             Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 83        77        75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    5        15        14
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)   116       117       103          -Philippines
Mat .e                                                        119       105          -  Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               ..       118       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM  TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
|ECOnrllltCrnttlos
GDP (USS billions)                          19.7    33.1       82.2      65.1
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                30.6     17.5      24.9      20.5
Exports of goods and servicestGDP           21.1     26.7      49.1      55.7                     Trade
Gross domestic savingsilGOP                 27.6     16.0      14.5      16.3
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..    17.9      20.2      21.7
Current account balancelGDP                 -3.8      -1.3      0.4       7.4     Donesbc
Interest paymentsvGDP                        1.1      4.0       2.1       3.0     Savings                      Investe
Totil d,ebGOP                               41.8     89.9       55.3     73A      Savng
Totaldebtservicetexports                    15.2    36.0        8.0      10.3
Present value of debUGDP                      ..       ..      52.7
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..      78.2
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   199943
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 1.1      3.0      5.2      -0.5       4.8            Philippines
GNPpercapita                       -1.6      1.3      3.0      -2.1       2.7               Lower-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices           4.7      9.2     17.5     -10.4       6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates ot output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        20
Agriculture                                 28.7    24.0        18.7     16.9       T
Industry                                    36.3    34.4       32.2      31.6  '_
Manufacturing                              25.4    24.8       22.3      21.9     ai 
SeMces                                      34.9     41.6      49.1      51.5            S S   94   95   96   97
Private consumpbon                          62.2     73.6      72.5      70.4    -20 -
General govemment consumption               10.3      8.4      13.0      13.3 3GD                              GDP
Imports of goods and services               24.1     26.2      59.4      59.9
1977-87  1988-98      1997     1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 1t1       1.5        2.9     -6.6       7 T
Industry                                    -0.6      3.1       6.1      -1 8
Manufacturing                              -0.3      2.7       4.2      -1.1
Services                                     2.7      3.7      5S5        3s5
Private consumption                          2.0      3.7       3.0       2.7      1     93         9S   96
General govemment consumpbon                -0.7      3.5        1.6      0.8
Gross domestic investment                   -4.5      4.8      11.7      -17.1   .15 -
Imports of goods and services                1.4     10.4      14.4    -11.4             -     Fxpw 
Gross national product                       0 8      3 7       5 3       0.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. it data are missing, the diamond witl
be incomplete.



- 103 -
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997     Inflation (% I
Oomestic prices
(% change)                                                                       20
Consumer prces                               9.2      0.8       8.4      5.1    '5
Implicit GDP defator                         8.3      3.0       7.8      6.0    *o t
Government finance                                                                s
(% of GOP, includes current gants)                                                o
Cufrent revenue                               ,,    13.0       18.9                      92   93   94   95   95   97
Current budget balance                                1.4                                -     GDP deflator   CPt
Overall surplus/deficit                              -5.0       0.3
TRADE
(US$ mjiMions) .                            11976    198t6    199l      1997      Export and import leveb (USS millions)
Total expons (fob)                                  4,842    20,543   25,228    40.000
Coconut oil                                         333       571      673
Sugar                                               103       136       83      O,ODO t
Manufactures                                      2.672    17,106   21,488
Total imporits (if                             .   5,044    31,885   36,355 2
Food                                                193      1,57     1,435     1D0Ot
Fuel and energy                                     869     3,008    3,074
Capita goods                                        839    10,472   14,369    ,
Exoort orice index (1995=1001                 ..       76       100                     91  92  93  94  95  96  9r
lmoort rnce index 11995=100)                          61        101        .*Expore                      *Imports
Terns of trade 11995=100t)                            124        99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mi,Wlons)                              1976    1986       1996     1997      Curent account balance to GOP rattio%)
Exports od goods and servces               3,262    7,702    27,627   34,359      D
Imports of goods and services              4,381    5.868    41,371    50,477     , lfl
Resoure balance                           -1,119    1,834    13,744  -16,118
Net incorne                                 -253   -1,321     9,202   10,735
Net current transfers                        268     441        589     1,080    -3+
Currnt account balance                     -1,105    954    -3,953   -4,303    ;*
Financing items (net)                      1,061      184     8,060    7,666      5
Changes in netr seves                         54   -1,138    -4.107   -3,363    141
dwno:
Resenresc udlr  c old tUSS mfiwbs)                           11.745    8.748
Conversion rate (DEC. localAUSS)             7.4    20.4       28.2      29.5
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1197    1966      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                    ComposIton of total debt. 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       6,039   28,204    41,214   45,603
IBRD                                       316    3,017     4,666    4,179                      kA 4,179
IDA                                         27      92        193      195                              8:155
Total debt service                           571    2,961     5,778    4,463           G: 1.5                 C: S55
IBRO                                        35     406       766       709                                   D: 2,947
IDA                                          0        1        3         3
Comnposution of net resource flows
Olficial grants                             61     401        246      260
Ofricial creditors                         212      198      -310      107                                   E: 11164
Private credits                            883     294      1,859    3,022
Foreign direct investment                  132      127     1,408    1,253
Portfolio equity                             0       0      1, 33        0             F: 14,439
World Bank program
Commitments                                226      151      628        60     A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              102      197      457       305     8-IDA     D- Other mulateral   F - Private
Principa repayments                         14      170      426       409     C- IMF                       G - Short-temr
NetfRows                                    S       27        31      -104
Interest payments                           20     238       343       303
Net transfers                               68    -210       -312     -408
Development Economics                                                                                             9/30/98






IBRFD 30240
120        25'                         (4.~           .-~',20;                ,               2                                           ,        I126'
20'              20'                                                   /       ~~~~~~~~~~~CeL                 . U ~
"0.0                                      /            ..     .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tnogot ~~~~~~~~~~~~Region. and P-iv,ces
~~'  l~~~~~ie           2           / ~~~~~~~~            2          .i.j       '2   K               Il       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J'                                  IX     Western Mindanao
LUZON                                                                                                                              'O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~   irgCIO
S90 ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~    ~    ~    I            ,                                                     .                                                                        2. Zamboangas del Norte
gtos                                Set'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sto    >2> ~~~~~~~~~~~3. Zamboanga del Sur
IS-                JM                       0                                                                                                                       I~\   9                                                   x      Northern Miidcsnao
~~' 1,N.,                                                    .f>~~~Slqooqoor             'Marobaicto              '\\(l~~~~~~~ M2                                                              7. Misamis Oriental
0  '   K"    .  5>   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.           -"'Y ~~~~~~~~xi    Southern Mindanao
VLA,-                                                                                                                                                        ndlliO                                                S. Davoo
"  is    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    20 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9. Davao del Sur
2'  0                                                                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~ e' '2  2' 'uua                                                               10. Davaio Oriental
u iu         Sea                                 ( 9roqu eto                                     City                       .012. South Cotaboto
QANAO10                                t~~~~~~~~DiJtp 0o Cil  '"                           'N'                   ."         "                                                               13. Sultan Kucdarat
-  71~~~~~~~''r~~~~~'  N'-        -           '.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~14. Composteat Valley
Solic9o'.osk.e~~~~~~~l ~~-  Y.erny.~~~~ioIe  ?2   i"o      "  ~~~~~~'"       de Oro       ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ '                                                 XII    CentralXI  Men inldMidana
S6dna                                       "ity  .             8,Htaun15. Lasnoo del Norte
,~~~~k    i1\I~~~~~~~~~~~~aI~~~~~ I ~~~~16. North Cotaboto
ii'.-          ~~~~Thmgu b.yi    org
/      <'                                N0Lmar       tyn          Na                                                                                    19. Ag-rigm del Norte
120'        1H25PPIMSI-"                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Aeguso del Svr
3  .2                    5          ~           ~~~~~ 2agan NgA19M AuonmusRegio  ol MNso                                                                   mMrtenn
MINDANAO  RURAL                                                                                                                       162.LnodfSi
.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I22. Magundandl Sw
DEVELOPMENT PROJE CT                                                                                             t o "      i~:          '                                                                                              24. Towl-6
(M,RPP)                            I"''                                               6i,                                I      I                      ti
'lsabeI, .Z mboanqq  0
deB1oItIo0t1.                    Moro             G  Ul                                               f Digos                                              100o      ~       l110.            120/ 
"N ~~~~~       I~~~~Vtd~~~~y~~~~~    I   I,                                                                 CHINA    ~~~~~~-   INORTH  PACIFIC
~~o   ~ ~ o            PunI.SO.seny%    1.3  '                                                                           1          ""~~~~~~~~~    1.0." On   "                 1        CEAN
S.0som                            9~      ~~~~~                                       ~~~~~ GuP i  20 ,L"6-\IMCO  OT                                         20II
A 2.1"""_' "_j,,IabIITHAI1 AND J.                                                                                                                                                                          nl
6-  0                                                                                                                                                                                                           BJI~     .'  o  ui.lOw    1"~MODIA  PIW IE
6'  ,  .      '2                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~IBRD 30240-                                                                                               PH.1 '    ~ ''' <    uteie             0
'.                  ~~~~PROJECT PROVINCES                                                                     01                                                                                  '                                AA
0,          .. .' -'-'-'PAN-PHILIPPINE HIlGHWAY                                                                                                                                          8RNI         ,
24,. ~~~~~~~~~                      .- ~~~~OTHER MAIN ROADS                                                  sea 13'2                  aarg                                                   MALAYI-              .
.                    ~~      ~~~~~x G-El SEASCAPE SITES
~~~~1I                                1~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ MAJOR PORTS                          0           50           100           50         20           20IL ETER                        0          NAOp""0
'ongao                                             ""'  RIVERS                                           III~                                                                                                                 
PRVNECAPITAI.                               This cop wns praduc,ed by the Matp L)Desit 1   fTeWo  ak-
----PROVINCE ROIJNOARIES                               judmet n he eglswu ofan friary o ay ndonSen o                                                                                                          f
120I`                                                1241                                                                                        lool ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'120 TimorASoo                 140";'
120'                                     ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~122'                                                                                                                                                           OII
SEPTEMBER 1 999






I  X    <, I                              ;o  I  %'/;       -R                        15                   C-m9ipi                                                                                                                                                                 [ , _,  ,,1RD 30241
,CHINA                                                          o             1R                                            XI'BD304
i 20`1 IA'O     ~MACAO, PORT, .
2D9\   . '  'MACAOPOR   20v    v      i  '.   . !i  s CoWmgu   1 19  . _PHILIPPINES
-iD     >4oL  v;;PRCTM                                                                              It ;i                                                  MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT
)  ,-~~~~         P~HI LIPPINES
A-d M'ot ~~~MpS                                                                                                                                     PROJECT (MRDP)
BRLUNEIA                               At                              ..                   I          p         oIf                                                       YEAR 1 PROJECT PROVINCES: SULTAN KUDARAT
-b.    SINGAPORE\     /                                                           UTUA -W      1+'                        T .        %;  o                                                                  AND   NORTH   COTABATO
I N   D  0  N  e  S  I A'           i                     IZ C -                                                                                                                  Shjmopwopnodocodby.i-MopD o     yU tobT mWo-.db-n.
e___J ,  ...................... l ;   E;   o     .:PROJECTPROVINCES                                                           n    G ,  o
AUSTRALIA    N'                                    .                   -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BouNbARIES
Map A: SULTAN KUDARAT PROVINCE                                                                                                                                                                                  Map B: NORTH COTABATO PROVINCE
To SUO  So B-ni-                                                                                                                                                            0         1 0        20        30
S~~~~~~~~ ~~~KILOMETERs
PROVINCE OF MAGUINDANAO                                                                                                              r *  *    "                           _                                                          '
- ? ~~                                              <          z A    N  SOIA A          SE    S ET   ILGS *   P ROJ nECCORINTO N OFI C .  /-                                     .                    /'      R ppd
ESPERA'NYA                                                                                                                         PPPLn                                                                 1L~
.o on,,,lgj                                                  COASAA Koloo                                                                                  NAIOA  ROADS oi CU ON\-Tn eoo~Ppn
oTonp- o    n           N-- ---------- -                 -         Ion.                       *'          j     B                                                             .Yq                                                          K.    0
ob   In                                             otonoonS. 3;  ..                                   e        MOUNTAINOUS K--                            ARI       SU     RS
"lO EES S-   lon    G        E FS E A S C A PEIT ._ _                                                                                                 -.                    REIO                         ROUNAR                           I      E :' C d  n  F       ' (  S   Ir V A O.
PoMISongoy5,  ".O" "S  Q0n,o               :1,                       OAI  rnioSIooO 0S        TY
\jN~~~~j  LOgs~~~~~nng ~~PROVINCE 01 LOUI H C OFA,.A O
PALIIIUANG                  I                                                                                                                                                                              ~ fq
'/  I   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L,IAIJ
YEAR I PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES        0      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                              Goono    Li hOEpen-no
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OIA SESETVLAE                                                                 PROJRCT COORDINAT ON OFFICE                                                  SPlnop
~~~~~~0'7                  1 ~~~~~~~~~~0               COASTAL                                    NATIONAL ROADS
0    lo        1~~~0     510                                                   P                           ROLLING/UPLAND                     ----MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
L                                                                            0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~ MOUNTAINOUS  -----  PEOVINCE BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS                                                        x       G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEF SEASCAPE SITE  -        REGION DOUNDARIES                                                                -JA (3 UI I 'I'.
SEPTEMBSER 1999



