                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 32660-PH

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (SCL-45220 TF-26782 TF-23302)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                              PHILIPPINES

                                                 FOR A

                           MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                              APL PHASE1




                                              June 28, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2005)

                                        Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (PhP)
                                                PhP1.00 = US$ 0.0179
                                               US$ 1.00 = PhP55.636

                                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                 Government :         January 1 - December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFMA      Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act
AFMP      Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Plan
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
BDP       Barangay Development Plan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAD      Community Fund for Agricultural Development
CIS       Communal Irrigation Systems
CMBC      Coastal/Marine Biodiversity Conservation
DA        Department of Agriculture
DBM       Department of Budget and Management
DENR      Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF       Department of Finance
FMR       Farm-to-Market Road
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GOP       Government of the Philippines
IA        Irrigators' Association
IPs       Indigenous Peoples
LGC       Local Government Code
LGU       Local Government Unit
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MDFO      Municipal Development Fund Office
MRDP 1    First Mindanao Rural Development Project
MTPDP     Medium Term Philippine Development Plan
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NEDA      National Economic and Development Authority
NGA       National Government Agency
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NIA       National Irrigation Authority
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCO       Program Coordination Office
PMO       Project Management Office
POs       Peoples Organizations
RDPAP     Rural Development Planning for Agricultural Development
RFU       Regional Field Unit
SAC       Sub-project Approval Committee


                                       Vice President:         Jemal ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                     Country Director          Joachim von Amsberg, EACPF
                                       Sector Director         Mark Wilson, EASRD
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                    Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron, EASRD

                                        PHILIPPINES
                    MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                        APL PHASE 1


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Partner Comments                                                        32

Project ID: P058842                                                  Project Name: PH - MINDANAO RURAL DEV
Global Supplemental ID: P059933 (Partially Blended)                  Supp. Name: PH - COASTAL MARINE
Team Leader: Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron                              TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PH - MINDANAO RURAL DEV                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-45220; TF-26782
   Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

       Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (48%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry
                            sector (25%); Sub-national government administration (22%); Water
                            supply (4%); Micro- and SME finance (1%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Nutrition and food security (P); Other rural
                            development (S); Indigenous peoples (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 06/25/1998                                      Effective: 03/02/1999                03/13/2000
     Appraisal: 05/19/1999                                         MTR: 09/16/2002                  09/16/2002
     Approval: 12/02/1999                                       Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



   Supplemental Name: PH - COASTAL MARINE                                         L/C/TF Number: TF-23302

       Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (47%); Irrigation and drainage (25%);
                            Sub-national government administration (18%); Water supply (7%);
                            Micro- and SME finance (3%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Decentralization (P)

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
  GEF Council: 05/07/1999                                      Effective: 03/02/1999                10/03/2000
     Appraisal: 05/19/1999                                         MTR: 03/02/2002                  04/19/2004
     Approval: 12/02/1999                                       Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           Government of the Philippines (GOP)/Department of Agriculture (DA) and
                                           Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) for the GEF-Funded
                                           Component
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Joachim von Amsberg                            Robert V. Pulley
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Mark D. Wilson
Team Leader at ICR:             Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron                     Rahul Raturi
ICR Primary Author:             Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron and
                                Ajay Markanday


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,

HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                          Rating                         Rating (Supplemental GEF)
                          Outcome:        S
                     Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:      SU
                 Bank Performance:        S
            Borrower Performance:         S


                                                   QAG (if available)          ICR
                                 Quality at Entry: S                           S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The long-term Mindanao Rural Development Program (the Program) is designed as a targeted
poverty reduction program for the rural poor and indigenous communities of Mindanao, aimed at
improving incomes and food security in the targeted rural communities within the 25 provinces of
Mindanao. This would be achieved through the implementation of better-targeted agricultural and
fisheries-related rural development and biological diversity conservation programs and through improved
institutional, technical, management and financial capabilities and systems of participating local
government units (LGUs). A series of four Adaptable Program Loans (APLs), each of which is between
three to four years duration, was envisaged to cover the Program. The First Mindanao Rural Development
Project (MRDP 1), initiated the approaches and processes in engaging LGUs, rural communities and
national government agencies (NGAs) in planning, designing and implementing rural development and
coastal resources conservation programs.

         The MRDP 1 aimed to initiate the program in five selected provinces (North Cotabato, Sultan
Kudarat, Agusan del Sur, Compostela Valley and Maguindanao) and 32 municipalities: (i) to implement
and refine institutional, financial and community-based planning and management systems for supporting
rural development; (ii) to improve LGU capability for agricultural development planning, implementation
and monitoring and evaluation (M&E), in partnership with NGAs and local technical institutions; and (iii)
to respond to community priorities for key rural infrastructure.

         The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) considered that the experience and lessons from the
MRDP would be crucial for scaling-up the Program to other provinces in Mindanao under MRDP APL 2,
subject to progress in the fulfilment of key triggers agreed with the Borrower (See Additional Information,
Section 10). It is in this light that lessons learned from MRDP APL 1, especially in putting in place
much-needed structures and processes for the Department of Agriculture (DA) and LGUs to effectively
work together, need to be accorded with greater attention and importance.

Assessment of Objectives

         The original development objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy for poverty
reduction outlined in the Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP), in particular its targeted
focus on minorities and supporting growth initiatives in Mindanao. Moreover, the development objectives
were strategically linked to the policy framework, sector goals and strategies enunciated in the Agriculture


                                                        - 2 -

and Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA), a landmark piece of legislation that underscores: (a) people
empowerment and access by the poor to income opportunities, support services and infrastructure; (b)
availability, adequacy, accessibility and affordability of food supplies; and (c) rational and complementary
allocation of DA and LGU resources to obtain optimal returns to public investments.

         As part of the broader APL context, it was envisaged that the realization of sustained long-term
rural growth and benefits to disadvantaged communities and minorities would further reinforce Government
efforts at consolidating the peace initiative in Mindanao (which had had a long history of conflict). The
development objectives were consistent with the then newly-completed Rural Development Strategy
Philippines: Promoting Equitable Rural Growth (Report No. 17979-PH, May 29, 1998) developed by the
Bank with the Government of the Philippines (GOP) and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS
Report No. 19137-PH). Finally, the objective of strengthening the capacity of LGUs to plan and
implement participatory development, especially through productive engagement with national government
agencies, firmly underscored the importance the GOP attached to devolution under the 1991 Local
Government Code (LGC).

          The long-term objectives of the overall Program and the MRDP first phase APL are clear. It was
a targeted program addressing the issue of rural poverty alleviation, set amidst the enabling frameworks of
decentralization and the AFMA. Within this broader program development objective context, the MRDP 1
was envisioned to initiate the engagement with national government agencies (the DA and the oversight
agencies) , the LGUs and the communities on this long-term agenda, through a learning-by-doing approach,
interlinking capacity-building interventions with resources for priority local investments, responding to
community needs. The development objectives were valid and realistic, and built on the lessons learned and
various implementation experiences within Bank and non-Bank projects at the time.

3.2 Revised Objective:

         The development objectives remained unchanged, throughout the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:

         The project had four components (the projected costs shown here included contingency provisions):

         (a) Rural Infrastructure (US$ 27.4 million - 66% of the total): The component had four sub
components: (i) Roads:rehabilitation of 40 kms of provincial and 460 kms of farm-to-market roads
(FMRs). For the FMRs, municipalities were allocated specified lump sums and were encouraged to use
least-cost designs and options to optimize the length of road rehabilitated, while provincial roads had to
meet essential criteria ensuring connectivity to existing all-weather roads. The MRDP 1 also sought
commitment from LGUs to undertake routine maintenance, sanctioning those that did not comply, from
future investments; (ii) Communal irrigation: transition arrangements were to be implemented for LGUs to
acquire greater responsibility for communal irrigation development in keeping with the LGC. It was
envisaged that the National Irrigation Authority (NIA) would assume the lead role under the project but
would work closely with LGUs and decentralized irrigators' associations (IAs) to strengthen local capacity
in communal irrigation management, operation and maintenance (O&M). MRDP 1 also aimed to
rehabilitate approximately 4,350 hectares of existing communal irrigation systems (CIS) and construct
around 850 hectares of new irrigation sub-projects in targeted poverty areas. (iii) Rural water supply:
rehabilitation of approximately 140 (point source and communal faucet) units in class 5 and 6 (poorest)
municipalities; and (iv) Capacity building in infrastructure management:training courses in various
aspects of infrastructure management were to be provided (e.g., in rural infrastructure development,



                                                      - 3 -

detailed engineering, contract management, environmental management, physical and financial monitoring
and O&M.).

         (b) Community Fund for Agricultural Development or CFAD (US $ 6.5 million ­ 16% of the
total). The project aimed to establish a community block grant at the municipal level to finance diverse
community-driven development priorities, which were consistent with the DA's priorities for agricultural
and fisheries development. The initial fund was for PhP 2.5 million based on a cost share of LGUs
(PhP0.5 million), DA (PhP0.5 million) and loan proceeds (PhP 1.5 million). MRDP 1 specifically targeted
poor communities, women and indigenous peoples (IPs), with sub-project approval managed by
municipal-level, multi-sectoral committees comprising government, the private sector, religious bodies and
non-government organizations (NGOs). The specific objectives of the CFAD were: (i) to strengthen
decision-making capacity at the community level for the identification, design and implementation of
sub-projects; (ii) to ensure that sub-projects financed through the DA's budget better reflect community
needs; and (iii) to ensure that resource allocation for development projects at the LGU-level better reflect
community priorities. Collectively, these were considered important in underscoring decentralized sector
management provided for under the LGC and the AFMA.

         (c) LGU Institutional Implementation Support (US $5.4 million - 13% of the total): Under this
component, various initiatives were proposed to strengthen local capacity including: (i) support to
microfinance institutions to enhance the access of small borrowers to financial services; (ii) support for
enhancing rural development planning and resource allocation capacity of LGUs through technical
assistance, training and closer links with regional offices of the DA; and (iii) support to local government
capacity in procurement and contract supervision, financial management, sub-project preparation and
implementation, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and safeguards compliance and monitoring, In
addition, a Program Coordination Office (PCO) was established to provide implementation support to
LGUs.

         (d) Coastal/Marine Biodiversity Conservation (US $ 1.7 million - 4% of the total): As an integral
part of the overall program, and complementing the MRDP objectives, the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) provided a grant of US$1.25 million to the GOP to finance the incremental costs of promoting and
mainstreaming coastal/marine biodiversity conservation in community development in two coastal area
sites in Mindanao (one in Paril-Sangay Protected Seascapes, Sultan Kudarat Province and one in Bongo
Island, Maguindanao Province).

3.4 Revised Components:

         There were no revisions made to the components as originally designed. However, for the LGU
Institutional Implementation Support Component, the Bank and the GOP agreed to focus initiatives on
supporting interventions for: (i) strengthening rural development planning and resource allocation; and (ii)
enhancing agriculture and fisheries productivity. Hence, from 2001, the component was renamed Rural
Development Planning for Agricultural Development (RDPAP).

         In addition, on the earlier envisioned sub-component activity for supporting microfinance
institutions, the GOP and the Bank agreed during appraisal that this would be provided through a grant
rather than supported by loan proceeds. In view of this, in February 2002, a local NGO in Mindanao was
able to secure grant proceeds (US$808,460) from the Japan Social Development Fund for a grant project
(TF 26782) entitled "Improving Microfinance Access for Barangay and Town-Based Microenterprise
Development". The grant aimed to contribute to rural and urban poverty alleviation efforts through the
enhancement of the growth of micro-enterprises (particularly, but not limited to, agribusiness) by


                                                      - 4 -

improving access to micro-finance facilities. The grant project covered 6 of the 32 municipalities covered
by MRDP 1. However, after 19 months of implementation (and 50% of grant proceeds were disbursed),
the grant was cancelled in September 2003 due to repeated infractions committed by the grant recipient
against the provisions of the signed grant agreement (the Project Completion Note for this grant project is
in the project files). It should be noted, however, that the deletion of these sub-component activities within
the LGU Institutional Implementation Support Component did not affect the attainment of the component
objectives nor the overall project objectives, in view of its limited scope and resource allocation, since this
is considered as a minor set of planned interventions which would have been good to complement main loan
interventions if grant resources could indeed be provided.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         The overall quality at entry of the project is rated satisfactory. The MRDP 1 was an innovative
effort by the Bank and the government to more effectively "operationalize" the government's strategic goals
related to rural poverty reduction, devolution, targeting minorities and focusing development in an area of
considerable socio-political, economic and policy significance. The project's development objectives were
consistent with the key pillars of government development and sector policy namely the MTPDP, the
AFMA, and the LGC. Indeed, until MRDP 1, although devolution had been under way for some years,
little had been done operationally to engage key actors and stakeholders, empower local governments and
communities, or establish constructive and complementary engagement between LGUs and NGAs in the
development process. To this end, MRDP 1 was pioneering and LGUs were enthusiastic at being
copartners in this initiative. Considering that MRDP 1 was a pioneer in defining and operationalizing
collaboration between the DA and the LGUs in terms of their structures and processes, management
systems and capacities could not have been fully developed prior to project start-up. There was therefore a
need for the adoption of a "learning-by-doing" approach.

         The development objectives were closely aligned to key thrusts in the Bank's Rural Development
Strategy and CAS, while final design was purposively guided by intensive social assessments and
stakeholder consultations during preparation, which reflected diverse community and LGU needs and
priorities. The PAD was thorough in considering possible risks and incorporating lessons from previous
regional and country programs. It was also realistic in recognizing that the required processes and
institutional changes were relatively complex and required sustained commitment over time. This again is
reflected both in design and the flexible, long-term loan instrument chosen, which ensures continuous
government and Bank support, simpler transition arrangements between phases and strong focus on
learning-by-doing. Finally, the use of an APL was a first in the agriculture sector in the Philippines, as was
the use of a program coordination mechanism (through a PCO), rather than the usual project management
structure (through a project management office or PMO), which underscored the importance given to the
need for institutionalization and sustainability of initiatives under this program. Moreover, as the PCO
emphasized the use of regular DA and LGU staff and not consultants (which is a normal practice in other
PMOs), it also countered government concerns of transition of projectized structures to its regular
programs.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         The project outcome and achievement of objectives are rated satisfactory. Below are the
envisioned development objectives under MRDP 1 and how they have been achieved (See also Annex 1):




                                                       - 5 -

         In terms of the development objective of implementing and refining institutional, financial and
community-based planning and management systems for supporting rural development, all the
participating LGUs (5 provinces and 32 municipalities) adopted local agricultural and fisheries
modernization plans (AFMPs) drawn from consultations with communities and local and technical agencies
such as the DA, state universities and colleges. To support the institutionalization of local mechanisms for
supporting rural development, MRDP 1 helped accelerate this process by testing replicable models for
decentralized agricultural development planning and implementation. These included integrating
community and LGU priorities into the plans and budgets of the regional DA; decentralized screening and
approval of sub-projects through the regional Sub-Project Approval Committee (SAC); establishment of
municipal multi-sectoral committees (MSCs) to ensure adequate representation of various sectors in
prioritization of local investments; adoption of indigenous peoples (IP) development operational
framework; and resettlement action plan framework. These mechanisms or models could very well lead to
the Program's sustainability in the target areas. MRDP 1 institutionalized community-based participatory
planning by assisting LGUs in the packaging of their Barangay Development Plans (BDPs). More
importantly, these BDPs were integrated to higher development plans of the municipal and provincial
LGUs and to the DA's Regional AFMPs. The external program evaluation findings showed that this
initiative encouraged People's Organizations (POs) to expand their sub-projects and apply the participatory
planning, decision-making and problem-solving approaches learned under the program to other
development initiatives in their localities. Hence, POs developed enhanced competencies and increased
their confidence on sub-project prioritization, preparation, and implementation.

         It is worth noting that prior to MRDP implementation, from 1995 to 1999, the provincial and
municipal LGU allocations for agricultural and fisheries development-related expenditures were quite low
in the five provinces covered by the Program (in 1999, the total allocation was only PhP 40.2 million).
During the implementation of MRDP 1, from 2000 to 2004, the municipal LGU allocations, which mostly
represent their equity to the program, substantially increased to PhP 101.8 million. Furthermore, Annual
Investment Plans (AIPs) of the five participating provinces now indicate a number of promising provisions
in terms of allocations for agricultural and fisheries-related development investments. Enhancement of the
capacity for resource generation activities were also noted in four out of the five participating provinces.

         In terms of improving LGU capability for agricultural development planning, implementation
and M&E, in partnership with national government agencies and local technical institutions, MRDP 1
has mobilized DA and other technical and research institutions to support LGUs in establishing a more
responsive agriculture and fisheries support delivery mechanism, thereby strengthening linkages between
extension demand (as expressed by farmers) and research technology supply. LGU capabilities have also
benefitted from the Program's learning-by-doing approach in the areas of rural development planning,
financial management, technical/engineering design, procurement and contract supervision, sub-project
preparation and implementation, social and environmental safeguards compliance monitoring, and M&E
(although to a limited extent, compared with the other skills areas).

         In terms of responding to community priorities for key rural infrastructure, MRDP 1 way
surpassed its original physical targets, except for rural water supply and provincial roads where there were
no takers (please see Annex 1). As a result of the rehabilitation and construction of priority local
infrastructure such as FMRs, irrigation, bridges and trails, increases in agriculture productivity were noted
and overall rice and corn cropping intensity increased from 198% to 214%. With improved communal
irrigation systems, average production per farm roughly doubled. As a result of the availability of
irrigation water, the area for irrigated farmland increased from an average of 0.8 hectare to 1.3 hectare
after the irrigation sub-projects were made available to the farmer-beneficiaries, thus increasing capacity
for production. Moreover, 16% of beneficiaries were able to plant a third crop. Average production per


                                                       - 6 -

farm increased by 86% (wet season) and by 76% (dry season). The average volume of produce transported
increased by 27% during the wet and dry seasons. Equally important, these infrastructure facilities enabled
beneficiaries to transport to town a higher quantity of produce at lesser time, cost and effort. Travel time
was reduced by an average of 15 minutes. Beneficiaries increased the frequency of their travel to the
market from three times to four times a week. Also, general health improved with the new source of water
supply. There was a reduced incidence of water-borne diseases. In the external survey done on the
Program, it revealed that when the MRDP water supply facilities became available, the incidence of water
borne diseases was significantly reduced to 2%. Frequency of occurrence of diseases likewise declined to
an average of only once a year.

         The development objectives of MRDP 1 still remain relevant to the country's development and
sector policies and the Bank's CAS. The Borrower remains firmly committed to expanding the MRDP
approach and mainstreaming it to other regular and donor programs. In summary, it was successful in
meeting its development objectives for the following reasons:

         (i) It was instrumental in introducing vital process change toward institutional and operational
devolution and decentralization, while enhancing core rural development skills of LGUs critical for
sustaining such a change;

         (ii) It involved, empowered and enabled LGUs, communities and minorities (some 37,000 poor
households, 47% and 22% of total beneficiaries are women and IPs, respectively), and engendered a strong
sense of confidence and ownership among them in planning and managing their own development;

         (iii) It introduced a constructive partnership between the DA and LGUs and changed the traditional
role of the DA from being an implementing agency to one of facilitating local people and governments to
plan and manage development in line with local priorities; and

         (iv) It improved access to livelihood opportunities and incomes (compared to average household
incomes of around PhP 36,342 per year "without project" those "with project" averaged PhP 76,5934 at
full development for representative farmers benefitting from irrigation sub-projects; a rapid rural appraisal
indicated that 60% of CFAD beneficiaries reported an increase in income under a "with project" scenario),
food security (70% of beneficiaries were able to provide enough food for their families during the Program
years, by having three meals a day compared to having one or two meals before MRDP, as well as better
road and market access, safer drinking water, higher crop productivity and various income-generating
initiatives.

         Although the ICR recognizes that the fuller economic impact of physical accomplishments will
only become clearer by the end of the second APL (as stated in the PAD), initial results are positive and
show a marked improvement in the sense of well-being among beneficiaries (See Annex 3). Overall, the
underlying rationale of MRDP 1 was to test devolved and participatory development and poverty reduction
processes, from which practical lessons could be drawn in order to scale-up and improve the program in
subsequent APLs. To this end, the institutional "know-how" assimilated under APL 1 will make
significant contributions to future development efforts in the Philippines under this and other programs.

         The project outcome could have been rated highly satisfactory had there not been shortcomings in
implementation in the first two years. (See section 5.3).




                                                       - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

         The overall rating is satisfactory, based on the ratings for components below (see Annex 1 for
details on actual physical targets and accomplishments):

         (a) Rural Infrastructure. The achievement of component outputs is rated satisfactory. This
component was the main investment vehicle under MRDP 1 (approximately 70% of actual cost) and its
principal objectives were to provide LGUs and communities the physical and technical means for
improving livelihood and food security through better market and health access and productivity gains. By
the end of MRDP 1, compared to a target of 460 kms of FMRs, the rehabilitation of 700 kms had been
completed. No provincial roads were rehabilitated, however, as municipalities prioritized the rehabilitation
of FMRs over provincial roads. MRDP 1 also emphasized the importance of O&M by municipalities and
introduced an independent O&M audit system to assess compliance. By the end of MRDP 1, the audit
indicated that none of the participating LGUs were rated poor while a number were rated as being good. In
addition, around 175.8 linear meters of one-lane bridges were constructed. The area target for rehabilitation
of communal irrigation schemes was also surpassed - four new communal irrigation projects were
constructed and 39 existing communal irrigation systems were rehabilitated, with a combined total service
area of 5,791 hectares, compared to the planned target of 5,000 has. Although the number of water supply
systems (28) were less than the targeted number (130), this was attributed to savings being re-directed by
LGUs to FMRs. (See also section 5.4). The individual investments (e.g., FMRs, bridges, irrigation and
water supply) were in line with the priorities accorded them by municipalities and communities during the
social assessment, which were a strong design feature in preparing the component.

         From an institutional perspective, communities and LGUs were also provided technical
strengthening to improve their capacity for procurement, contract supervision, planning, designing and
managing construction and O&M to ensure sustainability. Through training, they were also made more
aware of the economic, social and environmental safeguards requirements of feasibility studies and
individual investments, rather than just technical aspects. MRDP 1 invested in building the social and
environmental safeguards capacities of the DA-PCO, LGUs and communities. This facilitated the
preparation of safeguards requirements and approval of investment proposals and improved the quality of
safeguards compliance and overall soundness of the investments during implementation. This was
important as most LGU technicians were engineers with limited appreciation of these aspects. In fulfilling
component objectives, actual physical achievements were impressive. Overall, as a result of these strategic
investments, independent ex-post household surveys of beneficiaries indicate that MRDP 1 had generated a
stronger sense of accessibility, social inclusion and greater financial well being. As most investments are
two years or less old, however, the fuller economic results will only become clearer toward the end of the
next APL phase.

         (b) Community Fund for Agricultural Development (CFAD). The achievement of component
outputs is rated satisfactory. Along with the RDPAP component, the CFAD was the main driver for
institutional development, skills transfer and capacity building under MRDP 1. The main objectives of the
CFAD were to further the process of devolution under the LGC and promote more effective stakeholder
participation under AFMA by financing the priorities of poor communities and targeted groups in line with
their needs. Approximately 1,583 income-generating and productivity-enhancing sub-projects and small
infrastructure sub-projects (such as foot/motor trails, spill ways, water supply, and hanging bridges)
amounting to about PhP198 million, were completed, benefiting at least 37,000 households (for the
micro-enterprises) and serving at least 16,000 individuals (for the small infrastructure investments) in all of
the 32 participating municipalities. Also, some 17,000 people were organized under 1,500 POs. In terms
of incorporation of community priorities into development plans, these were done through preparation of


                                                      - 8 -

the 439 barangays, 32 municipal and five provincial development plans.

         The design of the component was positively influenced by social assessments and consultations
with communities. In meeting these objectives, component outputs were notable in: (i) the number of
livelihood sub-projects initiated through the community block grants; (ii) targeting the poor, women and
IPs; and (iii) establishing a strong sense of participation, empowerment and ownership among beneficiaries
in development planning and sub-project prioritization and implementation. MRDP 1 continually
incorporated lessons learnt in working with communities and POs to improve their implementation
capacities. Nearly 47% of beneficiaries were women (surpassing the PAD target of 30%) and 22% were
IPs. The results of the independent ex-post household surveys, which gauged beneficiary perceptions,
indicate that almost 70% consider themselves better off, (compared to only 9% at mid term), while a large
number, especially women, felt that they understood much better, and were more integrated in, the planning
and development processes. In addition to POs, decentralized processes were further entrenched by the
establishment and operationalization of local decision-making structures, most importantly the municipal
multi-sectoral committees, which include government and civil society representatives; and by the
strengthening/operationalization of the Barangay Development Councils (BDCs). These, from the view
point of communities and minorities, were instrumental in depoliticizing decision-making and sub-project
selection and engendering more inclusive governance.

         (c) Rural Development Planning for Agriculture Productivity (RDPAP). This component was
formerly entitled the LGU Institutional Implementation Support. The achievement of component outputs is
rated as satisfactory. The main component objectives were to integrate development planning and resource
allocation processes, improve agriculture and fisheries research and extension support, strengthen
participatory planning and information sharing, and in the process, build capacities of LGUs in various
aspects related to rural development planning, M&E, research and extension and financial management
through learning-by-doing approaches and formal training opportunities.

         A total of 1,416 barangay development plans (BDPs), based on community needs, and the analysis
of the local resource base and poverty distribution, were integrated into municipal and provincial
development plans, covering all participating LGUs. In addition, all but one provincial plan, were
integrated into the DA's Regional AFMPs. The component also established expert regional development
management teams (RDMTs) and research and knowledge transfer networks in four of the five MRDP 1
provinces, which allowed local farmers the opportunity to download current technologies and research. A
total of 73 technical demonstrations were also completed, supporting a key devolved mandate of the LGC.
One hundred and one regional DA and LGU participants also successfully completed advanced rural
development management courses and were shown by the independent ex post evaluation to have a
significantly better understanding of development, planning, management, community participation and
M&E issues compared to what they were before MRDP 1. In knowledge-sharing and planning, MRDP 1
successfully initiated integrated processes involving the DA-Regional Field Units (RFUs), NGOs, the PCO,
academic institutions and LGUs at provincial and municipal levels in preparing AFMPs and local
development plans.

         A recognized shortcoming under MRDP 1 was the initial lack of clear operational linkage between
what RDPAP was expected to deliver in furthering the decentralized planning process and what was to be
done under CFAD. Both, for example, were engaged in developing BDPs, which created confusion and
duplication in the beginning, mainly due to weak internal coordination between the two PCO units. In
addition, although the situation improved nearer the end, MRDP 1 did not satisfactorily involve the DA
RFUs in the integrated planning process during the first half of implementation. Though quite late, the DA
RFUs actively pushed/spearheaded the preparation and integration of AFMPs up to the regional level for


                                                       - 9 -

two consecutive planning periods. On top of this, the DA RFUs provided important inputs in the
manualization of the development planning process as well as on AFMA and LGC advocacy, including
municipalities and provinces not covered in MRDP 1. Efforts will be made under MRDP 2 to better
integrate RFUs right at the beginning of the process. MRDP 1 also did not fully adapt RDPAP training to
local circumstances, with the result that some methods and material used were overly complex for
communities (e.g., problem tree analysis rather than open brain-storming sessions).

          In terms of the LGU capacity building aspects, despite the considerable attention given to the
design of the M&E system in project design, the full operationalization of the system was not done. This
was mainly because of resource constraints ­ both in terms of financial resources and the quality of M&E
staff, especially at the LGU levels. The planned community-based M&E system was not operationalized,
the baseline data (although extensive) was not fully encoded until the last year of implementation, and the
project MIS, in most cases, was not able to provide immediate and critical inputs for management
decision-making. Moreover, the MTR and terminal evaluation exercises were not adequately funded,
despite the planned budgetary allocations, which resulted to evaluations which could have been of much
better quality. These pitfalls in the operationalization of planned M&E interventions are a recurrent failing
among development projects, and not unique to MRDP. Hence, under MRDP 2, M&E efforts would need
to be adequately funded and prioritized, better focused and the systems further simplified and more
operational, rather than allowing them to become over-ambitious and ineffective.

          On balance, however, despite the abovementioned recognized shortcomings on the initial lack of
clear operational linkage between RDPAP and CFAD in furthering the decentralized planning process, and
on the LGU capacity building efforts for M&E, these were insufficient to affect the overall satisfactory
rating for the component.

          (d) Coastal/Marine Biodiversity Conservation. This component aimed to (i) conduct resource
assessment surveys, (ii) apply a participatory planning and management process for identification and
development of protected areas, (iii) to strengthen local marine resources surveillance by coastal
communities linked to existing enforcement agencies, (iv) provide resources for the M&E program, and (v)
assist in the development of alternative income-generating activities. As of the last review mission in
February 2005, implementation progress continues to be made toward achieving the objectives and
outcomes under this component. Due to the 10-month delay in grant effectiveness and the effect of the
Mindanao conflict in the project areas in late 2000, the activities under this component are still on-going
and the grant closing date was extended for two years (from December 2003 to December 2005). In view
of this, the evaluation of the implementation of this grant-funded component is excluded from the scope of
this ICR. A separate Implementation Completion Memorandum (ICM) will be prepared for this component
by June 30, 2006, which will spell out implementation lessons learned which would be useful for the
preparation of the next GEF support under MRDP 2. It should also be noted that the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) coordinated the implementation of this component, in parallel
with the coordination of implementation being done by the DA with the three other components of MRDP
1. Substantial lessons had been learned in this implementation experience, hence, both the DENR and the
DA had concluded that it would be better to have one integrated implementation coordination mechanism
for all the components to maximize synergy among the various components; the MRDP 2 implementation
coordination arrangements will be structured as such.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

          The economic benefits of MRDP 1 were generated mainly from: (i) the rehabilitation of FMRs
with consequent savings in travel time and lower vehicle operating costs; (ii) higher farm productivity and



                                                      - 10 -

cropping intensity from communal irrigation schemes; (iii) greater availability of potable water, a
reduction in time in collecting water and the lower incidence of water-borne diseases; and (iv) income
generating activities through the community fund. MRDP 1 also had significant non-quantifiable benefits
in creating social capital through skills transfer and capacity-building of LGUs and communities, as well as
in developing institutional mechanisms to facilitate change within the framework of devolution.

         In recalculating the economic returns, the approach used in the PAD was adopted as it was still
considered appropriate. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the main investments for the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) have been re-estimated at 17% for FMRs, 25% for communal irrigation and 16%
for communal spring development. The ERR for different livelihood activities financed through the
Community Fund (CF), however, could not be calculated due to lack of sufficient data for the "with"- and
"with-out" project situations, as well as the inherent difficulties in estimating direct costs and benefits for a
wide range of diverse, community demand-driven (CDD) sub-projects.

         For the project as a whole, the ERR is estimated at 17%and the net present value (NPV) at PhP
224.3 million at an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 12%. This includes the cost of institutional
support under RDPAP but excludes the CFAD component which accounts for 15% of project costs. The
results are generally in line with PAD estimates and continue to demonstrate that MRDP 1 is economically
viable by component or as a whole. No sensitivity analysis was undertaken as the estimates for
quantifiable benefits were conservative and substantial unquantifiable benefits were not taken into account
in the ERR calculation (See Annex 3 and Working paper on Financial and Economic Analysis).

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         The use of financial analysis only applies to specific interventions that generated direct monetary
returns to beneficiaries or institutions. For the irrigation sub-projects, financial rate of return analysis does
not apply to individual schemes or the sub-component as a whole as these investments are not considered
"profit-earning entities". However, analysis was undertaken to ascertain the impact of the MRDP on
incomes and showed a significant improvement. Compared to average household incomes of around PhP
36,342 per year "without project" those "with project" averaged PhP 76,5934 at full development for
representative farmers. These estimates are in line with the results of the evaluation study and the M&E
reports prepared by the PCO (based on "before-" and "after-" project situations). For CFAD, there was
insufficient data to undertake project-wide household income analysis. However, a rapid rural appraisal
indicated that 60% of participating farmers reported an increase in income "with project". FMR and water
supply components do not qualify for financial analysis.

         The future fiscal impact of the project for the national budget will be minimum as national level
counterpart funds have already been absorbed as part of annual budget financing. On the part of the
LGUs, there will be further fiscal demands to cover O&M costs for FMRs and irrigation systems.
Irrigators' Associations (IAs) could be expected to share increasingly in O&M costs, linked to incipient
increases in agriculture production and income that have been independently recorded through ex post
surveys. It is likely that LGUs and beneficiary communities will be able to meet these financial
commitments, given the interest of beneficiaries in MRDP 1 and the new ways local governments are
introducing measures to generate revenues. In addition, a positive fiscal impact can be expected from
MRDP 1 as a result of improved rural development planning, increased community participation, and new
and better ways of allocating fiscal resources by LGUs in supporting rural development priorities.


4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                      - 11 -

          Institutional development was at the heart of MRDP 1 objectives and design and its impact has
been substantial. Set within a strong political economy context, the Program has been effective in
establishing a critical institutional trajectory towards more devolved and participatory rural development
planning and execution (please see specific examples of this in Section 4.1). Although progress in the
initial stages was slow and considerable confusion existed in the respective roles of LGUs and NGAs,
MRDP 1 ultimately established strong institutional mechanisms in support of its objectives. The
experience under MRDP 1 will, moreover, provide important lessons for scaling-up under MRDP 2. The
strong emphasis on participatory engagement backed by capacity-building and knowledge transfer, has
provided an invaluable sense of ownership in the development process and a confidence among stakeholders
that they have a "say" in how fiscal and other resources are used. This sense of empowerment transcends
various levels.

          Through MRDP 1, poor communities, vulnerable groups like women and indigenous peoples'
communities, are able to express and develop higher levels of awareness about their conditions, through
their active and deliberate involvement in developing their local BDPs, which in turn form the basis of
municipal and provincial plans. They also benefit from the inputs provided by the municipal and provincial
planning experts during the planning process, resulting in the identification of more rational and sustainable
sub-projects. Hence, the municipal and provincial stakeholders are assured of the responsiveness and
complementation of municipal and provincial intervention plans. Moreover, given the importance of these
constituents, the political capital from their active engagement has become of significant importance to
public servants in LGUs and provides the basis for more open and accountable government. This signals a
notable shift away from the earlier situation before MRDP 1 where development processes and projects
were politicized and lacked transparency.


          The technical, financial and management training has equipped LGUs better to understand
planning and financial processes, the principles of fund and resource allocation and the importance of
O&M in sustaining investments. LGUs now recognize that public investment projects that have strong
local support (i.e., prioritized by them) can be more effectively used to generate local revenues (through
taxation and levies) than previous practices. MRDP 1 also had considerable institutional development
impact by introducing and establishing a workable institutional model for local/national government
engagement (through the integration of the community and LGU development plans into the DA's AFMPs
essential for effective devolution. In addition, strong linkages were also forged between provincial and
municipal LGUs in the pursuit of a common rural development agenda for prioritizing, financing and
implementing local investments. Lastly, using a program coordination mechanism instead of the usual
PMO, gave LGUs the ultimate responsibility for planning and implementing investments rather than the
DA, which instead coordinated, facilitated and provided technical support. (See project files on working
paper on Institutional Development).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

          Conflict in Mindanao was a major impediment to implementation especially during the period
2000-2002 when the previous peace accord was broken. This substantially affected the crucial early stages
of the project, which required careful management and oversight (especially in introducing and establishing
new institutional principles). Although maintaining peace and order still remains a recurrent problem in
some areas, LGUs report that MRDP 1 has gone some way to mitigating these by offering previously
disenfranchised people and minorities more opportunities to participate in, and benefit from, development.



                                                       - 12 -

Social capital is observed to have improved, especially in conflict-affected and /or influenced areas. The
introduction of participatory development projects is considered by many as an essential requirement for
peace-building efforts.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         At project start-up, there was considerable political pressure on the implementing agency to
appoint certain personnel to head and staff the PCO. They were neither technicians nor core DA and LGU
staff and had limited understanding of the overall design and development objectives of the program. In
addition, they had inadequate skills in project management and integration. In view of this, trust with
communities and LGUs was not built right at the beginning and important procedures and systems
(especially financial, accounting and project management) were not properly implemented. The systems for
coordination were not installed; communication and responsible feed-back were almost absent, leading to
confusion and misperceptions that eroded LGU confidence in the PCO during the first two years.
However, it is likewise to the credit of DA senior management that the situation was addressed after the
Mid-term Review (MTR), and MRDP 1 slowly but decisively took the right decisions to bring the program
to operate again according to expectations. In terms of disbursements, implementation was also adversely
affected by cumbersome delays in liquidations due to the inappropriate fund tranching scheme adopted
earlier in the implementation of the project which was then changed in 2002 based on implementation
experience.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         The DA could have been more proactive in the early project years in resolving known staffing
deficiencies, at various levels, instituting much-needed systems, and operational guidelines, and generally
improving project direction and performance. An example would be in the area of financial management
(FM) performance. Although the FM system was well designed and adequate for the project needs, the FM
performance was dismal in the first half of implementation (financial management performance had been
rated as unsatisfactory during the said period) - this was mainly due to the poor quality of FM staff at the
PCO level, exacerbated by the lack of program coordination oversight and followthrough to ensure proper
linkage between the technical and financial management aspects of coordinating and managing
implementation. As a result, only 19% of the loan was disbursed by mid term, by which time, key financial
and management systems had not been properly managed and few local users were trained, had access to,
or understood these.There was also a discernible lack of effective overall program coordination and
oversight by the PCO, which was characterized by frequent changes in senior staff who had poor concept
and vision of the Program's development objectives. This also resulted in an ad hoc and unintegrated
approach to implementing the different components. Consequently, there was a missed opportunity of
building trust with LGUs early in the process and gradually gearing them to take the lead in development
planning and management in a more integrated approach. To the credit of DA senior management and
intensive Bank supervision, however, corrective measures were rapidly introduced after the MTR through
greater involvement of senior management in the DA and the implementation of major changes and
improvements in the staffing of the PCO. From 2002, the PCO Director (current) led the formulation of
"catch-up" plans with the LGUs, instituted task forces to oversee and coordinate different project
components and took an active lead in integrating processes and building trust with LGUs. This effort was
done under the pro-active oversight of a senior DA official (who was assigned by the DA Secretary as
accountable for turning around project implementation from unsatisfactory to satisfactory). This was seen
as a significant and critical turning point in improving subsequent implementation performance leading to
the satisfactory completion of MRDP 1.




                                                     - 13 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

         At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$41.26 million with IBRD loan proceeds of
US$ 27.50 million. The actual project costs are estimated at US$ 27.82 million, of which the APL
proceeds financed US$19.92 million and contributions from the government (not including the in- kind
contribution from beneficiaries) US$7.23 million. There was considerable under-disbursement for the
water supply sub-component and savings were re-allocated to FMRs, which exceeded the PAD estimates
significantly in terms of physical targets. It should be noted that actual project costs in local currency
terms are fairly close to the PAD estimates. However, the project costs in US dollar terms are noticeably
lower than the PAD estimates as a result of the deprecation of the Peso ( from 40 PhP/US$ at appraisal to
a weighted average of 54 PhP/US$ during implementation ­ a 35% decline). For the same reason, a total
of US$6.96 million of loan proceeds were cancelled as government counterpart funding was fixed in local
currency. The dismal disbursement performance of MRDP 1 in the first three and a half years of its
implementation was mainly caused by the unexpected war/conflict in Mindanao in the first 18 months of its
implementation coupled with poor program overall coordination support in the first two years, and
inadequate skills and capacities of PCO and LGU staff in financial management, procurement and program
management. Detailed project costs and financing are outlined in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         Sustainability of the achievements is rated as likely. The MRDP program is positively changing
the direction of interaction between the LGUs and the national government and introduced crucial
institutional momentum to support effective and participatory devolution in support of the LGC and the
AFMA. As a result, there is a strong sense of ownership and buy-in from various stakeholders and a
growing confidence that local priorities can be mainstreamed into public investment planning and
implementation. LGUs feel much better equipped technically to make effective financial and resource
allocation decisions based on the needs of their constituents. This has added greatly to their sense of
confidence as partners (with national government) and also improved governance and accountability. In
addition, to ensure sustainability in physical structures. LGUs, through training, have recognized the
importance of meeting recurrent O&M expenditure and are introducing innovative revenue-generating
mechanisms such as tolls and taxes. They are also lobbying strongly that fund flows through the Municipal
Development Fund Office (MDFO) are improved, to reach end-users more directly to overcome problems
and delays experienced in the first phase.

         Budgetary resources for agriculture-related expenditures and O&M of MRDP 1-financed
investments have been put into the LGU annual plan and budget for 2005, despite MRDP 1's closure in
December 2004. These collectively underscore the growing sense of LGU empowerment. Sustainability in
meeting development objectives is also ensured as MRDP 1 was only the first (learning) phase of a
long-term adaptable Program which has consistent commitment of both the government and the Bank, and
the possibility of continued long-term inclusion in the Program serves as an incentive for LGUs and
communities to continue the track of institutional reform they have started in MRDP 1. For the next phase
of MRDP, the challenge of operationalizing the new LGU-national government financing framework would
have to be taken up to ensure that LGUs and the DA continue the partnership that they have started under
MRDP 1 in pursuing common sectoral development objectives within the decentralization framework. The
lessons learned and implementation experience under MRDP 1 will provide a sound foundation and
rationale for arriving at an operational approach to this next challenge.




                                                     - 14 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

          MRDP 1 went a considerable way to begin orienting national and local governments toward
meeting the goals of the LGC and the AFMA. To this end, MRDP 1 served as the vehicle for beginning a
long-term process for operationalizing devolution processes for the delivery of frontline agricultural
support services which should have been part of regular operations since the enactment of the Code in
1991. Hence, the initiatives started under the MRDP 1 and the succeeding phases of the Program continue
to have the strong backing and commitment of local governments and the DA, who both express a strong
desire to mainstream the MRDP concept further to non-project communities (through LGU funds) and
other donor- and regular-funded programs and projects of the DA. The use of a PCO (using regular DA
staff and LGU staff) rather than a PMO (using consultants) also ensured a regular and non-projectized
structure requiring transition. Given the importance of this implementation experience, the DA will use the
regular structure of its RFUs in Mindanao in carrying out the implementation of the next phase APL. This
then ensures greater integration and mainstreaming of the gains and initiatives started under MRDP 1 to
both project and non-project areas under MRDP APL 2.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

          The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal of the project is rated satisfactory. Frequent,
in-depth and detailed consultations were held with the borrower and key government oversight agencies ­
i.e., the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA), Department of Budget Management (DBM)
and Department of Finance (DOF). These discussions ensured that the design of the overall MRDP
program responds to, and is consistent with national goals and priorities (particularly the LGC and
AFMA). In agreement with the oversight agencies and the DA, the program design was structured in a
way that allowed approaches to be tested and lessons learned in each phase for sequential scaling-up. At
the same time, importance was given to ensure that the program design was consistent with the newly
adopted rural development strategy of the Bank and the CAS at that time. Strong technical support,
involving various disciplines, was provided by the Bank to the Borrower in undertaking relevant social
assessments and consultations with communities and LGUs, and overall, in preparing the program.

          Particularly for the social assessments, a key feature of project preparation, the Bank provided
adequate guidance to the Borrower for conducting a thorough social assessment process among the
communities, the LGUs and the participating national agencies. Such a process actually drove program
design and laid the foundation for the deep engagement, ownership and participation of the communities
and the LGUs, even before actual implementation, and especially so during the initial years when there was
conflict in some of the Program areas and during the time when there were substantial delays in Program
start-up and implementation. In many ways, this process was seen as an attractive and new feature in the
Philippines - and the NEDA actually encouraged other agencies and donors to adopt a similar approach.
In addition, the appraisal process was thoughtful in considering pertinent lessons from other Bank
operations in the Philippines and the region as a whole; recognized that complex institutional issues would
need time to evolve under a long-term APL approach; and rightly reflected on the possible risks involved.


7.2 Supervision:

          Bank supervision is rated as satisfactory. Although the AFMA and the LGC had been enacted
several years prior to the commencement of the MRDP, much remained to be done to further the goals of


                                                      - 15 -

modernization and devolution in the agriculture sector. This required key actors in the Bank and
government to provide sustained impetus to further the process in meeting project objectives. Bank
supervision was the crucial catalyst in maintaining momentum, providing sound technical support and
being proactive in addressing issues and problems in working closely with the Borrower and various actors.
This was particularly important during the initial years when implementation was unsatisfactory and the
DA and LGUs had to be continuously and constructively engaged to resolve major impediments. Indeed,
supervision provided the critical link between and among the LGUs, the DA and the oversight agencies in
highlighting problems and agreeing on remedial steps and actions. As a result, changes were continually
introduced, especially after the MTR when the Borrower made significant modifications in the PCO
staffing, which had hitherto been a major reason for poor performance. The rating is also supported by the
fact that supervision continued to play a pivotal role, despite a deteriorating peace and order situation in
large parts of the Program area for considerable periods, which restricted movement and access to
beneficiaries. Considerable efforts were also made to retain the same technical personnel/skills mix on
review missions in the interest of continuity, while supervision reports were comprehensive in detailing
implementation performance and required agreed actions. With hindsight, however, supervision should
have given greater emphasis to ensuring that financial, project management and M&E systems were given
more focus, attention, and priority, especially in the first few years of implementation, to ensure that key
users were fully conversant with their application and operationalization of the said systems.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank has maintained close contact with the
implementing partners and provided necessary direction and sustained support through regular supervision,
as well as follow-throughs in between review missions and as requested by the Borrower.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         The performance of the Borrower in project preparation is rated as satisfactory. The DA's PCO
worked closely with the project preparation consultants and the Bank team in project preparation, which
(unusually) was complemented by involving staff from the oversight agencies: NEDA, DBM and DOF.
Preparation by the Borrower was further strengthened by involving Provincial Governors (to ensure LGU
buy-in and ownership right from the start) and strong concurrence that the program had to have a
client-driven design based on the participation of communities. The acceptance by the DA and the LGUs
of the use of social assessments in design and preparation was new and bold, as was the concept of using a
PCO which transferred implementation and fund responsibility directly to LGUs. With hindsight, however,
the Borrower could have done better in some aspects of preparation. For example, more attention could
have been paid to sensitizing DA regional/field officials and staff to the goals of the Program, particularly
those related to decentralized functions and fostering stronger relations with LGUs. During preparation,
DA staff were also not made fully aware of the distinction between a PCO and PMO structure, which
resulted in subsequent confusion and exacerbated problems of a weak PCO in the initial project years.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The government's performance during project implementation is rated as satisfactory. The
government (at the both the national and local levels, as well as the oversight agencies and the DA) were
supportive of the Program's objectives as they furthered key policy goals under AFMA and the LGC. In
addition, the Program focus on Mindanao was endorsed by the specific issuance of an executive order (EO)
which allocated funds directly to the DA regional field unit in Davao for preparation and implementation.



                                                     - 16 -

This strongly supported the principles of devolution and decentralization of funds. NEDA and DBM also
strongly endorsed an approach which did not involve expendable project structures such as PMOs which in
the past had significant problems of facilitating transition to regular program after project closing.
Moreover, the government strongly signalled its continued commitment to the project's rationale and goals
by electing to use the APL as a long term loan instrument.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         The implementing agency's performance is rated as satisfactory. Although MRDP 1 initially had
significant problems (due principally to a weak PCO), this was recognized by the DA, which, with Bank
supervision support introduced a number of corrective measures after the MTR in late 2002. Key
management changes were introduced, such as the appointment of an experienced DA Director to head the
PCO, increasing the number and improving the quality of PCO staff, revamping financial, management
and M&E systems, improving project outreach and maintaining counterpart budget commitments despite
Department-wide cuts. More importantly, at this time, a dedicated DA senior official was appointed to
oversee project implementation, who provided regular and sustained guidance to ensure that the Program
was put back on a satisfactory track. All these resulted in a significant turn-around in implementation
performance, from being unsatisfactory to satisfactory. Of equal importance was the significant
improvement in the image of the Program among beneficiaries and LGUs who were strategic partners in
implementation.

         Notwithstanding the initial poor performance, by the end of MRDP 1, all project objectives were
on track, there was strong buy-in and commitment by key stakeholders and, therefore, implementation
performance is rated as satisfactory on balance.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, consistent with the ratings above.

8. Lessons Learned

·        Complex institutional change needs careful design, preparation & long term commitment by
government and the Bank. Project design and preparation were thoughtful and measured, consistent with
policy, and positively reflected the aspirations of diverse stakeholders. This engendered strong political and
social ownership from the outset, which, backed by a flexible long-term loan instrument (a proposed series
of four APLs, over 12-15 years), ensures continued commitment to sustaining key participatory and
decentralized processes through learning-by-doing. Considerable time is needed to facilitate gearing-up of
institutions to understand and adopt new processes and changes. MRDP 1 was well designed in
interpreting the needs and ways for meeting the objectives; however, a longer time for institutional
preparation of LGUs and the DA could have been factored in and a longer project implementation schedule
could have been drawn up, instead of the original four years for each phase. Hence, the closing date for
MRDP 1 had to be extended for a year in order to allow full completion of the activities which had started
to pick up after all the initial implementation constraints and the necessary preparation and gearing up of
participating institutions had been achieved.

·        A learning-by-doing approach is the best way to operationalize and facilitate devolution.
MRDP 1 provided an operational model on how a national sectoral agency like the DA can facilitate
devolution of functions and responsibilities to LGUs as per the LGC. It proved that LGUs and the DA can
be effective, equal partners in achieving national sectoral goals of food security, higher incomes, and



                                                      - 17 -

agribusiness development within a mutually enriching incentive-based, decentralized environment. Building
on the substantial capacity-building efforts under MRDP 1, strategies for MRDP 2 for capacity building
would have to be even more practical, action-oriented and incentives-based. Also, capacity building
interlinked with investment resources for local priority needs is the key for enabling and triggering change
of institutional behavior among LGUs and the DA in order to forge the transition into a decentralized
framework.

·        Well defined and constructive partnership between national government agencies and local
governments is key to effective devolution. MRDP 1 was successful in operationalizing the intent of the
LGC and the AFMA by devolving project planning and implementation responsibility away from a national
implementing agency (i.e. the DA) to LGUs and communities. This was innovative and established a
workable model for NGA-LGU partnership from which important lessons can be learnt for scaling-up
future projects. Examples of lessons include the critical importance of clearly defining and delineating the
institutional roles of a national agency like the DA vis-à-vis the LGUs.

·        Strengthening grass roots organizations, local governments and communities is vital to
meaningful participatory and integrated development. Through MRDP 1, stakeholders developed a
strong sense of confidence that they could integrate and be effective drivers in the development process.
This sense of empowerment also promoted better governance and accountability in local development
planning as it became less politicized and more constituent-driven.

·        Using regular government personnel, instead of contracted personnel provides for greater
institutionalization of project initiatives. By using a program coordination mechanism (using regular
staff from the DA and the LGUs) rather than the usual project management structure (using contracted
staff outside of government), MRDP 1 was able to ensure that initiatives started under the Program are
integrated within existing institutional mechanisms and processes within the DA and the LGUs.

·        Operationalization and usefulness of a well-designed M&E system are hinged on adequacy of
budget, good quality staff and high level of prioritization. It is not enough that considerable attention is
given to the design of the M&E system in project design and preparation. Full operationalization and
usefulness of the M&E system and the MIS are directly linked with the level of priority accorded on this
activity and equally, with the adequacy of financial resources and good quality staff, especially so, that
M&E activities are almost always given lesser priority compared with other more concrete project
interventions. It would also be better to directly link M&E efforts to governance, transparency, and
accountability mechanisms to better ensure usefulness and sustainability.

·        Disbursements and FM aspects are better facilitated if there is a tight and sustained
operational linkage and oversight between technical implementation and financial management, done
by qualified staff right at the beginning of implementation. It is important for both qualified financial
management and technical staff to be fully on-board, right at the beginning of implementation, and be well
coordinated on their operational strategies and actions in order to ensure timely physical implementation
coupled with adequate absorption of available financial resources.




                                                     - 18 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

        The DA submitted a summary of their project completion report which can be found in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

        The identified triggers for moving on to APL 2 were fulfilled a year before the MRDP 1 closed in
December 2004. The identified and agreed triggers were:

l Project Preparation to be initiated once 60 percent of the APL 1 has been disbursed. Social
    Assessment of the next group of provinces, which express interest in participating and meet eligibility
    criteria, to be completed.

l APL 2 to be approved by the Bank once 80 percent of APL 1 is disbursed, and the balance is
    substantially committed.

l Institutional arrangements for implementation tested out and adapted based on experience;
    multi-sectoral committees for the community funds operating satisfactorily.

l Overall satisfactory performance, using the evaluation made for the MTR as a basis for assessment

l APL 2 loan to be approved once 80% of APL 1 loan is disbursed and the balance is substantially
    committed




                                                  - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate


Institutional financial and community-based     All participating LGUs (5 provinces and 32     All participating LGUs (5 provinces and 32
planning and management systems                 municipalities) adopted local agricultural and municipalities) adopted local agricultural and
implemented and refined for supporting rural fisheries modernization plans (AFMPs),            fisheries modernization plans (AFMPs),
development within targeted agricultural and    drawn from consultations with communities      drawn from consultations with communities
fishing communities, in 5 to 6 provinces,       and local and technical agencies.              and local and technical agencies.
covering at least 30 municipalities - At least
50% of participating LGUs (provincial and
municipal) adopt agricultural development
plans, which also incorporate outcome of
consultation process with communities, and
local and national technical agencies.

Improved LGU capability for agricultural        Annual Investment Plans of the 5               Annual Investment Plans of the 5
development planning, implementation and        participating provinces indicate a higher      participating provinces indicate a higher
M&E, in partnership with national government amount of provisions for budgetary                amount of provisions for budgetary
agencies (DA) and local technical institutions allocations for agricultural and fisheries      allocations for agricultural and fisheries
- DA budgetary allocations under                development investments. In addition,          development investments. In addition,
AFMA/national agricultural development          allocations for agricultural development       allocations for agricultural development
plans for the participating LGUs integrated     investments among the participating 32         investments among the participating 32
into the latter's respective financial and      municipalities increased from Php 40.2         municipalities increased from Php 40.2
investment plans.                               million (in 1999) to Php 101.8 million (by     million (in 1999) to Php 101.8 million (by
                                                2004)                                          2004)

Responding to community priorities for key      Overall cropping intensity increased from      Overall cropping intensity increased from
rural infrastructure leading to (i) Increase in 198% to 214%, average production per farm 198% to 214%, average production per farm
agricultural productivity, (ii) increase in     increased by 86% (wet season) and by 76%       increased by 86% (wet season) and by 76%
household incomes in targeted communities (dry season)                                         (dry season). For representative farmers
with at least 75% of the direct beneficiaries of                                               benefitting from irrigation sub-projects,
the project improving their incomes by the                                                     compared to average household incomes of
end of MRDP APL 2.                                                                             around PhP 36,342 per year "without
                                                                                               project" those "with project" averaged PhP
                                                                                               76,5934 at full development . A rapid rural
                                                                                               appraisal indicated that 60% of CFAD
                                                                                               beneficiaries reported an increase in income
                                                                                               under a "with project" scenario.




                                                                    - 20 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
               Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                               Actual/Latest Estimate


Roads rehabilitated -460 kms. of farm-to         700 kilometers of farm-to-market roads were 700 kilometers of farm-to-market roads were
market roads and 40 kms of provincial roads      rehabilitated and 175.80 linear meters of           rehabilitated and 175.80 linear meters of
                                                 one-lane bridges were constructed                   one-lane bridges were constructed


Rehabilitation and construction of communal 4 new communal irrigation projects were                  4 new communal irrigation projects were
irrigation subpreojects - 3500 hectares          constructed and 39 existing communal                constructed and 39 existing communal
constructed and 1,500 hectares of new            irrigation systems were rehabilitated with a        irrigation systems were rehabilitated with a
communal irrigation systems                      combined total service area of 5,791                combined total service area of 5,791
                                                 hectares.                                           hectares.


Rural Water Supply Systems - develop 130         28 units of potable water systems were               28 units of potable water systems were
new spring water systems                         constructed                                         constructed


Enhanced infrastructure O&M by LGUs and LGU annual budgets have consistently                         LGU annual budgets have consistently
communities - increase in LGU budgets for        included sub-projects.for maintenance of            included allocations for maintenance of
maintenance; imprsub-projects,on of road         MRDP 1 infrastructure subprojects, since            MRDP 1 infrastructure subprojects, since
networks                                         this is a prerequisite for the next years'          this is a prerequisite for the next years'
                                                 program for new subprojects. Independent            program for new subprojects. Independent
                                                 infrastructure O&M audit system to assess           infrastructure O&M audit system to assess
                                                 compliance was established. By the end of           compliance was established. By the end of
                                                 MRDP 1, the audit indicated that none of the MRDP 1, the audit indicated that none of the
                                                 participating LGUs were rated as poor, while participating LGUs were rated as poor, while
                                                 a number of LGUs were rated as good.                a number of LGUs were rated as good.


Annual disbursement of PhP 2.5 million each Funding of 1,583 micro-enterprise and small Funding of 1,583 micro-enterprise and small
in 32 municipalsub-projectsFAD subprojects       infrastructure subprojects amounting to about infrastructure subprojects amounting to about
                                                 PhP 198 million, were completed, benefiting         PhP 198 million, were completed, benefiting
                                                 at least 37,000 households (for the                 at least 37,000 households (for the
                                                 micro-enterprises) and serving at least             micro-enterprises) and serving at least
                                                 16,000 individuals (for the small                   16,000 individuals (for the small
                                                 infrastructure investments such as foot/motor infrastructure investments such as foot/motor
                                                 trails, spill ways, water supply, and hanging       trails, spill ways, water supply, and hanging
                                                 bridges serving at least 16 thousand                bridges serving at least 16 thousand
                                                 individuals) in all of the 32 participating         individuals) in all of the 32 participating
                                                 municipalities.                                     municipalities.


LGU staff and communities trained (formally Some 17,000 people were organized under                  Some 17,000 people were organized under
and informally) on rural development             1,500 peoples' organizations. At least 500          1,500 peoples' organizations. At least 500
planning, implementation, M&E and financial LGU staff have been trained on rural                     LGU staff have been trained on rural
management                                       development planning, implementation, M&E development planning, implementation, M&E
                                                 and financial management and procurement. and financial management and procurement.
Rural Development Plans formulated and           Total of 1,416 barangay development plans,           Total of 1,416 barangay development plans,
developed                                        based on community needs, analysis of local based on community needs, analysis of local
                                                 resource base and poverty distribution, were resource base and poverty distribution, were
                                                 integrated into municipal and provincial            integrated into municipal and provincial
                                                 development plans, covering all participating development plans, covering all participating
                                                 LGUs. In addition, all provincial plans, except LGUs. In addition, all provincial plans, except
                                                 one, were integrated into the DA's Regional         one, were integrated into the DA's Regional
                                                 AFMPs.                                              AFMPs.


On-farm demonstrations established               Total of 73 technical demonstrations were           Total of 73 technical demonstrations were
                                                 completed                                           completed


1End of project
Note: The PAD indicators in the log-frame were not adequately defined on quantitative increases in some respects. (e.g. increases in budget flow to
LGUs and level of productivity increase) The main measurable indicator was income, which as indicated in the PAD will still be fully evaluated at the
end of MRDP APL 2.




                                                                     - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal         Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                        Estimate             Estimate           Appraisal
                          Component                                   US$ million          US$ million
A. Rural Infrastructure Improvement                                       24.14                 18.88                  78
B. Community Funds for Agricultural Development                            6.06                   3.66                 60
C. Institutional Support                                                   4.67                   4.33                 93
D. Coastal/Marine Biodiversity Conservation (funded by                     1.55                   0.67                 43
GEF; still on-going)

Total Baseline Cost                                                       36.42                 27.54
 Physical Contingencies                                                    1.91
 Price Contingencies                                                       2.65
                             Total Project Costs                          40.98                 27.54
                                            Front-end fee                  0.28                   0.28             100.00
                     Total Financing Required                             41.26                 27.82


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                         2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                              Other
1. Works                                0.00             11.90                 12.65               0.50            25.05
                                       (0.00)            (9.50)               (10.91)             (0.00)           (20.41)
2. Goods                                0.00              0.70                 1.71                0.00             2.41
                                       (0.00)            (0.60)                (0.66)             (0.00)           (1.26)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00                 3.28                0.00             3.28
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)                (2.23)             (0.00)           (2.23)
4. Community Funds                      0.00              0.00                 6.97                0.00             6.97
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)                (3.06)             (0.00)           (3.06)
5. Operating Costs                      0.00              0.00                 1.72                0.00             1.72
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)                (0.26)             (0.00)           (0.26)
6. Front-end Fee                        0.00              0.00                 0.28                0.00             0.28
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)                (0.28)             (0.00)           (0.28)
   Total                                0.00             12.60                 26.61               0.50            39.71
                                       (0.00)           (10.10)               (17.40)             (0.00)           (27.50)
Note: This excludes proceeds from the CMBC GEF Grant, which is still on-going and will close on December 31, 2005.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB              NCB                         2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                              Other
1. Works                                0.00              6.13                12.75               0.00            18.88
                                       (0.00)            (4.91)              (10.14)             (0.00)           (15.05)
2. Goods                                0.00              0.74                 0.00               0.00             0.74
                                       (0.00)            (0.67)               (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.67)



                                                      - 22 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00                2.52               0.00             2.52
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)              (1.47)             (0.00)           (1.47)
   4. Community Funds                      0.00               0.00                0.00               3.66             3.66
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)             (2.17)           (2.17)
   5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00                0.00               1.07             1.07
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.28)           (0.28)
   6. Front-end Fee                        0.00               0.00                0.28               0.00             0.28
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.28)             (0.00)           (0.28)
       Total                               0.00               6.87               15.55               4.73            27.15
                                          (0.00)             (5.58)             (11.89)             (2.45)           (19.92)
   Note: This excludes proceeds from the CMBC GEF Grant, which is still on-going and will close on December 31, 2005.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works, goods and services to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
      contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
      related to (i) coordinating and managing the project, and (ii) project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank       Govt.       CoF.           Bank         Govt.          CoF.      Bank     Govt.  CoF.
A. Rural Infrastructure        20.41        4.64                      15.05         3.83                    73.7     82.5
Improvement
B. Community Funds for          3.06        3.91                      2.17          1.49                    70.9     38.1
Agricultural Dev.
C. Institutional Support        3.75        3.66                      2.42          1.91                    64.5     52.2
D. Coastal/Marine               1.25        0.30                      0.67          0.10                    53.6     33.3
Biodiversity Conservation
(funded by GEF, still
on-going)
Front-end Fee                   0.28                                  0.28                                 100.0

   a/ Actual expenditures under Government does not include in-kind contribution of the beneficiaries. Actual/Latest
   estimates for CMBC under Bank and Government represent expenditures under the on-going GEF grant, as of
   June 28, 2005. Two loan cancellations were made as a result of foreign exchange savings which accrued with the
   devaluation of the peso. Total cancellations amounted to US$6,956,000. The exchange rate at the time of appraisal
   in November 1999 was US$1=PhP40. By project closing in December 2004, the exchange rate was already
   US$1=PhP54.




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


         The analysis presented in this Annex reassesses the ERR calculated in the PAD using updated
prices, actual project costs and the latest projections of benefits from different project components. The
approach is based on key assumptions and models used in the PAD and changes have only been made
where better, more current, estimates were available. The project costs and physical achievements, for
example, were based on project office records and were cross checked with various supervision reports.
The financial and economic data for the analysis were collected by the project authorities in 2004 and were
verified by an external evaluation team. The analysis was conducted in constant 2004 prices. Further
details are given in a working paper on Financial and Economic Analysis to be found in the project files.

Project Benefits:

         The economic benefits of the project were mainly from: (i) the rehabilitation of farm-to-market
roads (FMRs) and consequent savings in travel time and lower vehicle operating costs; (ii) higher farm
productivity and cropping intensity from communal irrigation schemes; (iii) improvements in the
availability of potable water, the reduction in time collecting water and the lower incidence of water-borne
diseases; and (iv) income-generating activities through the CFAD. The project also had significant
non-quantifiable benefits in creating social capital through skills transfer and capacity-building of LGUs
and communities.

         The assumptions, models, key data and results for financial and economic analysis, by component,
are indicated below.

         Farm- to-Market Roads (FMRs) The quantifiable benefits were the savings in vehicle operation
costs and in beneficiary travel time. Additional non-quantifiable economic and social benefits include:
(i).improved access to input-output markets; (ii) reduced transport time in haulage; (iii) improved access to
education, health, communication and other technical and economic services ­ mostly located in towns.

         The benefits are based on the following assumptions and parameters:

         (i) Traffic Count: Traffic count (including pedestrians, bicycles and draft animals) had been
completed on five selected FMRs (see Table 1C of working paper on Financial and Economic Analysis, for
details). The counts were conducted on market and non-market days. On average, there were 164 vehicles
per day (vpd) on a market day, which is more than three times the baseline average of 50 vpd. During
non-market days, there were 121 vpd, representing a 236% increase from the baseline count of only 36
vpd;

         (ii) Weighted Average Day: Given the fact that traffic numbers vary between market and
non-market days, weighted averages were used by assigning a weight of 1/7th for the weekly market day
and 6/7th for non-market day, the six remaining days of the week. The resulting weighted average daily
traffic count for the five roads was 127 motorized vehicles;

         (iii) Vehicle Operating Cost: Analysis of the per kilometer cost associated with operating each
type of motorized and non-motorized vehicle traveling on rural roads in the Philippines is conducted by the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and tabulated by the NEDA on a regular basis.
Vehicle operating costs on rural roads by type of vehicle was obtained from the Project Management
Office-Feasibility Studies of the DPWH; and



                                                      - 24 -

         (iv) Value of Time Savings. The household survey conducted for the evaluation of the rural roads
showed an average savings of 0.26 hour of travel time among the beneficiaries as compared to the baseline.
The survey further revealed that 54% of the respondents reported a decrease in travel time by using the
road. The analysis assumed an average daily wage rate of PhP 120 per day in computing the value of the
time saved.

         Communal Irrigation: The benefits were from: (i) an overall increase in the area of land under
irrigated crops (i.e., an overall increase in cropping intensity) and (ii) more reliable and timely availability
of water which would have a positive impact on yields.

         Following the conservative approaches adopted at PAD stage, the areas from which the benefits
derived were estimated as follows:

         (i) under the project's rehabilitation program, unimproved irrigation systems would be upgraded to
fully functional improved systems. However, costs and benefits were reassessed for the incremental area
only and not over the area of the entire scheme; and

         (ii) under new construction, farmers currently relying on rain water to irrigate their crops were
assumed to have a constant supply of water through the construction of a communal irrigation system.
Therefore, costs and benefits are assessed over the entire scheme. Although there were additional benefits
from crop diversification (shifting to higher-value crops such as vegetables), these were not taken into
account in analysis in line with the approach at PAD stage.

         Improvement of Water Supply Systems. The economic analysis for this sub-component
considered that the only benefits came from savings in time fetching potable water as these could
alternatively be used for income-generating activities by the beneficiary households. The savings in time
generated from the household survey was 36 minutes per day per household. Since water fetching is
usually done by women and children, the assumed wage rate was PhP 100/day and only half of the time
savings converted into economic price by using 0.6. Non-quantified benefits include increases in
beneficiary household productivity as a result of the availability of water as an input for household
activities and other social benefits, and avoidance of waterborne diseases.

         CFAD Sub-projects. The CFAD financed demand-driven sub-projects which are consistent with
DA's program and priorities for supporting agricultural and fisheries development to address the diverse
priorities of communities. Sub-projects under the CFAD comprised a broad spectrum of activities
undertaken with the direct participation and financial contribution of beneficiaries. Specific projects of
CFAD include raising animals, crop production, pre- and post-harvest facilities, agro-forestry, aquaculture
and livelihood/ nonagricultural production activities. Roughly half the participants cited that they benefited
from new farming technologies introduced by the Program. The most important were: goat breeding, and
the adoption of improved land preparation and production. Many (42%) also cited an increase in
knowledge of new techniques through training-seminars, focus group discussions and (most especially)
cross-site visits. Other participants reported benefits from other activities including the promotion of food
safety, and the proper budgeting and handling of home finances. It can also be noted that a significant
proportion (close to 14%) of CFAD beneficiaries disclosed having been employed and/or generated
additional income from their participation.

         However, given the diversity of size and types of eligible sub-projects described above, the
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)/Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) calculations for the


                                                      - 25 -

component would only have been meaningful had data been available to match exactly the benefits and
costs by major types of sub-projects to construct cash flow or sufficiently representative sub-project
models. This would have enabled an extrapolation of the FIRR/ERR by major sub-project types.
Unfortunately, such data were not available either from the M&E system or from the external evaluation
study to allow ex-post cash flow analysis. Therefore, no attempt could be made to recalculate the
FIRR/EIRR for this component.

Project Costs:

         The project costs and physical achievements were based on PCO records and were further crossed
checked with the various supervision reports. Unit costs for irrigation rehabilitation and new construction
and for FMR rehabilitation are generally in line with PAD estimates. Incremental costs for crop production
are not included in the sub-projects as they are treated as part of the recurrent costs borne by the farmers,
and O&M costs for both FMRs and irrigation systems are included as recurrent cost in the economic cash
flow analysis.

         Actual project costs in local currency terms are fairly close to the PAD estimates. However, the
project costs in US dollar terms were noticeably lower than the PAD estimates as a result of the sizeable
(35%) deprecation of the Philippine Peso against the US dollar (i.e., from PhP40: US$1 at appraisal stage
to a weighted average of PhP54: US$1 during implementation). For the same reason, a total of US$6.96
million of loan proceeds was cancelled as the government counterpart funding was fixed in local currency.
The dismal disbursement performance of the project in the first three and a half years of its implementation
(18 months against PAD schedule) was mainly caused by the unexpected war/conflict in Mindanao in the
first 18 months of its implementation, coupled with poor project coordination support in the first two years,
and inadequate skills and capacities of PCO and LGU staff on financial management, procurement and
project management. Detailed project costs and financing are outlined in Annex 2.

Economic Rate of Return Analysis:

         Based on revised project costs/benefits, the economic rate of return (ERR) of the main investments
at the time of the preparation of the ICR are re-estimated at 17% for FMRs, 25% for communal irrigation,
and 16% for communal spring development. The ERR for different livelihood activities financed through
CFAD, however, could not be calculated because of the lack of sufficient data. For the project as whole,
the ERR is estimated at 17 % and the net present value (NPV) at PhP 224.3 million at an OCC of 12%.
This includes the cost of institutional support under RDPAP but excludes the CFAD component which
accounts for 15% of project costs. The results are generally in line with PAD estimates and continue to
demonstrate that the project is economically viable, whether analyzed by component or as a whole,. No
sensitivity analysis was undertaken as the estimates for quantifiable benefits were very conservative and
substantial nonquantifiable benefits were not taken into account in the ERR calculation (The models used
in the analysis and other details are provided in the working paper on Financial and Economic Analysis).




                                                     - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              11/15/1998                9    TTL (1); SS (1); RIE (1); OO
                                             (1); YP (1); IS (1); SR FMS (1);
                                             FMS (1); PS (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/19/1999              11     TTL (1); SS (1); RIE (1);
                                             OO (1); SR FMS (1); PS (1);
                                             FMS (1); IS (1); YP (2); PA
                                             (1)
              06/15/1999                8    TTL (1); SS (1); RIE (1); OO
                                             (1); SR FMS (1); PS (1); IS (1);
                                             YP (1)
              08/27/1999                5    TTL (1); OO (1); LEGEA (1);
                                             LOAG (1); YP (1)

 Supervision
              09/24/1999                7    TTL (1); SS (1); RIE (1);             S               S
                                             OO (1); IS (1); FMS (1); CS
                                             (1)
              02/18/2000                8    TTL (1); SS (1); URBAN                HS             HS
                                             TRANSPO. SPEC. (1); RIE (1);
                                             OO (1); AE (1); PS (1); IS (1);
                                             FMS (1)
              08/02/2000                4    TTL (1); PS (1); CD/AES (1);          S               S
                                             RDPS (1)
              06/16/2001                7    TTL (1); SS (1); OO (1); PS (2);      S               S
                                             CD/AES (1); FMS (1); RIE (1)
              01/30/2002                6    TTL (1); OO (1);SS (1); PS (1);       U               S
                                             FMS (1); RIE (1)
              09/30/2002                9    TTL (1); PS (1); FMS (1); ES          U               S
                                             (1); CD/AES (1); RDPS (1); RIE
                                             (1); SM (1); SS (1)
              05/20/2003                6    TTL (1); PS (1); FMS (1); ES          S               S
                                             (1); RDPS. (1); RIE (1)
              11/18/2003                9    TTL (1); PS(1); FMS (1);              S               S
                                             CD/AES (1); RD(1); PS (1); RIE
                                             (1); M&E S (1); PDS (1); ES (1)
              06/08/2004                7    TTL (1); PS (1); CD/AES (1);          S               S
                                             RIE (1); RDPS (1); InS (1); FMS
                                             (1)
              11/26/2004                8    TTL (1); FMS (1); CD/AES (1);         S               S
                                             RIE (1); RDPS (1); PS (1); InS
                                             (1); ES (1)

 ICR




                                              - 27 -

               03/08/2005                      3     FAO TTL (1); FAO                   S             S
                                                     Economist (1); InS (1)


Legend: TTL - Task Team Leader; SS - Social Scientist; RIE - Rural Infrastructure Engineer; OO -
Operations Officer; IS - Irrigation Specialist; FMS - Financial Management Specialist; CS - Coastal
Specialist; AE - Agricultural Ecologist; PS - Procurement Specialist; CD/AES - Community Development
/Agricultural Enterprise Specialist; RDPS - Rural Development Planning Specialist; ES - Environment
Specialist; SM - Sector Manager; PDS - Project Development Specialist; M&E S - Monitoring &
Evaluation Specialist; InS - Institution Specialist; YP - Young Professional; SR FMS - Senior FMS; PA -
Program Assistant; FAO - Food and Agricultural Organization; N/A - Not Applicable; HS - Highly
Satisfactory; S - Satisfactory; U - Unsatisfactory

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       95                        451.50
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            20                              *
  Supervision                                     120                        252.88
  ICR                                                6                         24.52
  Total                                           241                        728.90
*Cost already included in the Identification/Preparation stage




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating                         Rating (Supplemental GEF)
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
        Inclusion of Marginalized
Groups/IPs
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

(In the Project Files)

Working Paper on Financial and Economic Analysis (Including electronic models)
Working Paper on Institutional Development
Project Completion Report on MRDP 1 (prepared by the Government)
Project Completion Note on JSDF Grant on Improving Microfinance Access for Barangay and
Town-Based Microenterprise Development (TF26782)
Project Appraisal Document for MRDP 1 dated November 8, 1999
1997 Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act
1991 Local Government Code
Various Supervision/Review Mission Aide Memoire




                                                - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments

                                   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
                          MINDANAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF MRDP 1 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

        The Mindanao Rural Development Program (MRDP) is a twelve-year program (2002-2012),
which is divided into 4 phases under World Bank's Adaptable Program Loan (APL) mechanism. Each APL
is consisting of three (3) years. The project is executed by the Department of Agriculture and implemented
by the participating Local Government Units with loan assistance from the World Bank. The various
national line agencies, academe and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) operating within the area of
coverage were also actively involved as partners in the implementation. APL 1 started operation in year
2000 and was supposed to be completed on June 2003. However, this was extended to December 31, 2004.

        This Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Mindanao Rural Development Program (MRDP) ­
LN 45220 PH incorporates the findings and recommendations of the Terminal Evaluation and in addition,
the result of the rapid assessment for the Community Fund for Agricultural Development (CFAD)
component.

        Although MRDP Operation started in 2000, preparation activities started in 1998 through 1999.
Social Assessment and piloting of project components were done in Libungan, Cotabato Province and
Senator Ninoy Aquino, Sultan Kudarat Province using funds from the concerned provincial and municipal
LGUs and matching funds from the Department of Agriculture-Regional Field Unit of Region XII.

        In Year 2000, the implementation was formally started in five municipalities of Cotabato and 6
municipalities in Sultan Kudarat. In the same period, the Program simultaneously conducted preparation
for the 21 municipalities in the Provinces of Agusan del Sur, Compostela Valley, Maguindanao and
additional 4 municipalities in the Province of Cotabato. In year 2001, implementation period for the 21
additional municipalities and 3 provinces took place.

Financial Report

        The project was able to disburse a total of PhP 1.45 billion or 95% against the appropriated
amount of PhP 1.53 billion. Overall fund release for the Rural Infrastructure Component is PhP 1.02
billion or 96% against the appropriated amount of PhP 1.06 billion. For CFAD, the total fund release is
PhP 197.84 million or 98% of the total appropriated amount of PhP 201.46 million. For Institutional and
Implementation Support, the total fund release as of May 15, 2005 is PhP 233.93 million or 87% of the
total appropriated amount of PhP 268.76 million. In terms of disbursement and expenditures, MRDP has
an availment rate of 96%, obligated the amount of PhP 1.47 billion as against the appropriated amount of
PhP 1.53 billion.

        In 2001, the actual utilization of the Project was a low twelve percent (12%). The catch up plan
prepared to facilitate the fast tracking of activities largely contributed to the increase of the utilization rate
by forty-one percent (41%) in 2002. Other factors like the proactive support and close monitoring of the
project by the DA National Office and World Bank hastened the implementation process. Consequently,
MRDP has achieved high performance in its last two years (2003 and 2004).




                                                        - 32 -

Physical Accomplishment

         Given the MRDP's goal to alleviate poverty in the five (5) provinces, it has pursued its objectives
through the implementation of the interrelated components. The complementation and integration package
of developmental interventions facilitated the attainment of these objectives. The holistic and integrated
approach in delivering these interventions have indicated positive result in attaining the Program's over-all
objective of addressing the multifaceted needs of target beneficiaries.

         Consistent with the goal of the Program to institutionalize community-based planning, it has
assisted the Local Government Units (LGUs) in the packaging of 1,416 Barangay Development Plans
(BDPs) via a community ­based participatory planning. The BDPs were integrated to higher development
plans of the Local Government Units and to the Department of Agriculture's Development Agenda. The
project also assisted the LGUs in the establishment of 73 sites of Technology Demonstration Farms, where
about 371 technologies were demonstrated for the farmers to learn and adopt in their respective farms.

         The project has also accomplished the following: (a) rehabilitation of 699.7 kilometers of farm to
market roads; (b) construction of 175.80 linear meters of one-lane bridges; (c) construction of 4 new
communal irrigation projects and rehabilitation of 39 existing communal irrigation systems with a
combined total service area of 5,791 hectares; (d) construction of 28 units of potable water systems; and (e)
establishment of 1,583 micro-enterprise and small infrastructure projects.

Initial Project Results and Impact

         To determine the initial result and impact of the project, an evaluation was conducted. This was to
ascertain whether the sub-projectss implemented have contributed in making the people's lives better. Initial
results and impacts are given below:

Rural Development Planning for Agricultural Productivity (RDPAP)

         The various capacity building interventions implemented under Rural Development Planning for
Agricultural Productivity (RDPAP) has bared positive results in providing the farmers and fishermen the
needed support and opportunities to improve their productivity. The Program's intervention in
strengthening the role of local development councils in rural development planning & resource allocation
had produced a synergetic effect on the CFAD & Rural Infrastructure component interventions, thus
achieving the objective of an increased agricultural productivity.

         Prior to MRDP implementation, from 1995 to 1999, the provincial and municipal LGU Allocation
for Agricultural Development was very low in the five provinces covered by the Program. In 1999, the total
allocation was only 40.2 million pesos. Upon the implementation of MRDP, from 2000 to 2004, the
MLGU Allocation, which mostly represents their project equity substantially increased to 101.8 million
pesos.

         Annual Investment Plans (AIPs) of the five participating provinces, now indicate a number of
promising provisions in terms of allocations for agricultural and fisheries development. Enhancement of the
capacity for resource generation activities were noted in the following provinces: (a) in the AIP of the
Province of Cotabato (Tax Information and Education Campaign and Awards and Incentives for Best LGU
for Real Property Tax Collection); (b) in the LGU revenue collection in Sultan Kudarat for Other Taxes
(transfer tax on sale property, privilege tax, annual fixed tax on delivery trucks, tax on printing and


                                                     - 33 -

publication, professional tax, franchise tax, mining tax, amusement tax and sand and gravel/quarry tax)
and in Operating/Miscellaneous Revenue (hospital fees and charges); and (c) in the LGU Revenue
Generation from Quarrying and Natural Resources Extraction in Compostela Valley, Cotabato and Sultan
Kudarat and Agusan del Sur.

         The Program has assisted the LGUs in establishing a more responsive agriculture and support
delivery mechanisms by strengthening their linkages with the research institutions.

Institutional Development Intervention

         The program also helped in the devolution/decentralization of the agricultural sector management
areas to the LGUs and beneficiaries. The LGUs have become the stewards of technological transfer and
project implementation to the beneficiaries. In turn, the beneficiaries have become proactively involved in
the project planning, decision-making process and implementation. Findings showed initiative of the People
Organizations (POs) to expand their sub-projects, participatory planning and decision-making and problem
solving through frequent meetings and consultations. POs and their members participated in the
development of the BDPs. The PO and beneficiaries developed enhanced competencies from capability
building and project management experience. Involvement in capacity building organized for the POs and
beneficiaries slowly increased their confidence in interacting with others in the community as they managed
their projects.

         MRDP has also made progress in accelerating the process of decentralizing the agricultural
support services planning and implementation. Tried and tested replicable models which have been
responsive to the concerns in decentralized agricultural sector. Planning and implementation had been
initiated and initially institutionalized. These include among others initially integrating LGU initiatives into
the plans progress and budgets of the Department of Agriculture, as well as decentralized screening and
approval of sub-projects through the regional Sub-project Approval Committee (SAC), etc. These
mechanisms or models could very well lead to the program's sustainability in the target areas.

Community Fund for Agricultural Development (CFAD)

         The Program has provided adequate economic enterprise in the remote villages serving at least 37
thousand poor households. The livelihood projects implemented and now giving additional income to the
beneficiaries include: Crop Production, Agro Forestry; Livestock/Poultry Production, Integrated Farming
System; and Pre-/Post Harvest Facilities.

         Small Infrastructure projects such as: foot/motor trails, spill ways, water supply, and hanging
bridges serving at least 16 thousand individuals were also implemented.

         Household survey results conducted by external evaluators showed that the annual nominal income
of beneficiaries increased to PhP 30,607 from PhP 21,387 nominal income before MRDP or forty-three
percent (43%) increase. Sixty two percent (62%) of CFAD beneficiaries claimed higher nominal income
after their involvement in the project. The household interviews also revealed that majority (70%) of
beneficiaries were able to provide enough food for their families during the program years. Beneficiaries
mentioned having 3 meals a day compared to having one or two meals before MRDP and were able to offer
some snacks to guests like boiled bananas and corn. This could also be confirmed in the result of the social
assessment done prior to the program start.




                                                       - 34 -

Women Participation

          The Program has reinforced discussions that brought consciousness among the different
stakeholders on the important role of women in community development. The discussion of issue was
brought to the level of local policy making bodies and Chief Executives, which ensures sustainability.
MRDP has consciously involved the women sector in the implementation of the various projects The sector
has gained more access to the resources and become active contributor to the family's income as a result of
MRDP implementation arrangement. Almost a half (47%) of the beneficiaries are women. The sector has
actively participated in the project development cycle. Furthermore, livelihood projects under the CFAD
offered new employment and business prospects to the beneficiaries.

Indigenous People

         The purposive targeting of the Indigenous Peoples (IPs) as beneficiaries of various sub-projects
has enhanced the meeting of the Program's objective to actively involve the sector in economic activities.
This has evolved into making them active partners in the pursuit of the Program's over-all objective. Direct
IP beneficiaries total to seven thousand six hundred seventy nine (7,679) or 21.9% of the total direct
beneficiaries.

Rural Infrastructure

         The Rural Infrastructure (RI) contributed to the increase in agriculture productivity through the
construction and rehabilitation of farm-to-market road, bridges and trails. These infrastructure facilities
enabled beneficiaries to transport to town higher quantity of produce at a lesser time, cost and effort. The
average volume of produce transported increased by twenty-seven percent (27%) during the wet and dry
season. Travel time was reduced by an average of 15 minutes. Beneficiaries increased the frequency of
their travel market from three times to four times a week.

         Moreover, the enhanced irrigation system provided beneficiaries added income and higher
productivity in crop production. Average production per farm roughly doubled as a result in area planted
by about 64% with the available irrigation project. Household survey showed that more than a half (60%)
of RI beneficiaries cited an increase in income after MRDP. Before MRDP, annual income of beneficiaries
averaged at PhP 84,210. After MRDP, annual income in nominal term increased to thirty-five percent
(35%).

         Due to availability of irrigation water, irrigated farmland area increase from an averaged of 0.8
hectare to an average of 1.3 hectare after the irrigation project was made available to the
farmer-beneficiaries, thus increasing capacity for production. Likewise, overall cropping intensity increased
albeit slightly from one hundred ninety-eight percent (198%) to two hundred fourteen (214%). Moreover,
sixteen percent (16%) beneficiaries were able to plant a third crop on an average of 0.2 hectare farm.
Average production per farm increase of eighty-six (86%), and close to 6.4 metric ton during the dry
season or an increase of seventy-six percent (76%).

         Gross incomes from crop production increased by sixty-three percent (63%). Before MRDP,
annual nominal income was only PhP 51,000. With the use of the irrigation facility, annual nominal income
increased to PhP 83,000.

         General health improved with the new source of water supply. There was lesser incidence of water


                                                      - 35 -

borne diseases. In the survey, it revealed that when the MRDP water supply project became available,
incidence of water borne diseases was significantly reduced to 2%. Frequency of occurrence of diseases
likewise declined to an average of only once a year.

Operation and maintenance

         On the other hand, regular monitoring of LGUs implementation of project's operations and
maintenance (O&M) and material testing and quality control, through O&M audit and advocacy
visit/inspection from project to project has resulted to increased awareness of LGUs on the importance of
institutionalizing effective and efficient O&M system for sustainable infrastructure utilization as required
in the Memorandum of Agreement executed by and between the program and the LGUs.

Social safeguard

         Another important achievement of the Program is the issuance of Social Clearances to LGUs as
part of the Social Safeguard Policy of MRDP. The development processes employed by the Program
advocated the respect for the dignity, human rights, and cultural uniqueness of the people involved/affected
by the projects. Hence, a survey of the Project Affected People (PAP) was conducted prior to the
implementation of all infrastructure sub-projects to ensure social acceptability of the project top the
community.

Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Conservation (CMBC)

         The CMBC had successfully implemented its seven (7) sub-components namely: i) stakeholders
capacitation, ii) environment and natural resources information, iii) degraded ecosystems rehabilitation, iv)
resource conservation, v) resource use and other regulatory services, vi) policy formulation, planning and
advocacy, and vii) environmental hazards management.

         The component has established marine sanctuaries in the municipalities of Parang, Maguindanao
covering 6 barangays in Kalamansig, Sultan Kudarat covering the barangays of Paril and Sangay. It has
also developed and carried out sub-projects to enhance alternative income generation activities for coastal
communities, and has strengthened the community-based surveillance of coastal resources and capacity of
communities and regulators in the enforcement of marine resources regulations through the provision of
goods and consultants' services and training. Further, CMBC also assisted in the development of skills of
communities and government staff ion marine bio-diversity conservation methods through the provision of
consultant's services and training.

APL1 Implementation Lessons

         Lessons learned during the overall implementation of the project are worth considering in the
future APLs of the program and with other similar undertakings. The weaknesses in this project can
subsequently be prevented while its strengths duplicated in order to achieve the ultimate goal of developing
the countryside, reducing poverty and increasing the income of our farmers and fisherfolk.

         The MRDP provided important lessons that will be valuable in he APL 2. Major learnings
common to all components included the following:

         First, the strong will and commitment of the implementing officials and agencies like the World
Bank, Department of Agriculture, MRDP-PCO, Local Government Units, NIA, and other concerned


                                                     - 36 -

agencies was manifested by the timely implementation of the rural infrastructure component. Projects were
carried out despite the perceived peace and order problems in Mindanao and the difficulties in accessing the
project sites.

         Second, creativity and innovation were used in the different projects. Despite of the perceived
peace and order problems and lack of resources, the different components were able to adapt to the needs
and priorities of the communities. The various development approaches and strategies such as: (1)
participatory planning processes; (2) integrated programs; (3) decentralization of functions; (4)
demand/community driven projects; (5) convergence of multi-sectoral committees; (6) social preparation;
(7) social mobilization; and (8) institutionalization of the various stakeholder organizations and groups
were instrumental in the success of the Program.

         These approaches led to the community's strong leadership, commitment and involvement in
project implementation. Noteworthy examples include the successful implementation of the Local Barangay
Development Plans in MRDP and non-MRDP sites led to significant agricultural productivity since the
LGUs implement priority sub-projects aimed at improving the local agricultural economy based on these
plans. Through the convergence of MRDP implementers and other stakeholders, Multi-Sectoral
Committees under CFAD prioritize sub-projects towards intended beneficiaries (poorest, IPs and women).
Also under CFAD, the Participatory Barangay Development Planning exercise increased their knowledge
for purposive planning and project management was also strengthened. The participatory processes of the
POs led to community empowerment and gender equity (more women were involved in the projects).

         Third, capacity building was implemented to guarantee the technology transfer and sustainability
of the different sub-projects. Noteworthy examples were RDPAP's Rural Development Management
Course (RMDC), Techno Demo Farms, Cross Visits and the other components' training and technical
assistance to the communities. Major results of these capacity building programs were the implementation
of various CFAD and rural infrastructure sub-projects and the BDPs.

         Fourth, the coordination and collaboration from the provincial level down to the beneficiaries
involving the various sectors greatly benefited the harmonious and congruent delivery of services especially
in institutional support, appropriate technology, monitoring and evaluation of the projects. A significant
outcome of this process led to the maturity and growth of many POs.

         Fifth, the capability skills of the LGUs were greatly in the following: participatory governance,
project development and management system. The valuable result of their expanded roles led to demand
driven projects and a stronger partnership between LGU and the communities.

         The implementation structure particularly of the CFAD sub-projects highlighted the LGUs'
expanded role as the implementers. The Agricultural Technicians also designated as Municipal Facilitators,
facilitated the community organizing and extension works in the Barangay level. They helped manage and
train the duly organized POs in various livelihood and food security programs.

Recommendations

         Define the planning model, standardize procedures and guidelines, institutionalize the roles and
functions of stakeholders in the planning process.

         Strengthen the stakeholders' capacity building to sustain the program and its projects through
establishment and adoption of an appropriate Training Needs Assessment (TNA) system/stakeholders


                                                      - 37 -

analysis, transform the system into training and development management manual, develop program
calendar for the system and incorporate into the MRDP DA Work and Financial Plan.

        There is a need for a timely organization and engagement of institutional structures and support
mechanisms (LGUs, DA and other support institutions)

        Although significant capacity building intervention were undertaken, strategies, however, have to
be even more practical, experiential and action oriented for technology transfer and adaptability and
responsiveness to the communities' needs.

        Improve certain standards for Project implementation procedures to prevent misunderstanding,
sub-standard work, additional cost and to conserve time.

        Even with the present coordination system, there is still a need to further strengthen convergence
and collaboration in planning implementation and monitoring and evaluation to attain more agricultural
productivity with lesser resources.

        Support sustainability mechanisms like funding, communication channels, and logistical support on
all MRDP components.

        Reinforce the monitoring and evaluation systems particularly at the LGU levels to efficiently
respond to projects' problems and needs.

        Ensure operationalization of the Management Information System (MIS), which will include its
subcomponents like the Baseline MIS, Operations and Financial MIS, Process and Results Monitoring and
Evaluation System and Impact Evaluation System at the LGU levels to provide accurate and timely data, in
order for stakeholders to immediately resolve critical problems and see the immediate benefits of the
sub-projects.




                                                    - 38 -

- 39 -

