Page  1
Conformed Copy
February
19,
2002
Honorable Jose Isidro Camacho
Secretary
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd
Manila, Republic of the Philippines
Mr. Rodilo H. Lebiano
President and Executive Director
Advocates of Cotabato Rural Development, Inc. 
Room
207, RFP Building, J. Abad Santos Street
Kidapawan City,
Cotabato Province, Republic of the Philippines
Re:
Japan Social Development Fund  Grant for 
Improving Microfinance Access for Barangay and
Town-based Microenterprise Development 
Grant Number TF
026782
Dear Sirs:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the Japan 
Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding eight hundred eight thousand 
four hundred sixty United States dollars (US$808,460) (the Grant) to Advocates of Cotabato Rural 
Development, Inc. (the Recipient) for the benefit of the Republic of the Philippines. 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance with the project 
described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the Project) and on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the said Annex.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said terms and 
conditions.
The Republic of the Philippines, hereby confirms its support for, and its commitment to, the 
objectives of the Project to be financed by the Grant, and to this end, hereby undertakes to take all 
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Recipient to carry out its obligations set forth in this Letter
Agreement and the Annex and Attachments hereto.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Republic of the Philippines 
and the Recipient, respectively, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter 
Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Page  2
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Robert Vance Pulley
Country Director, Philippines
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By:
/s/ Juanita D. Amatong
Title: Undersecretary, Department of Finance
Date: February 19, 2002
AGREED:
ADVOCATES OF COTABATO RURAL DEVELOPMENT, INC. 
By:
/s/ Rodilo H. Lebiano
Title: President & Executive Director, ACORD
Date: February 19, 2002
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1.
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in alleviating poverty in urban and rural 
areas by enhancing the development of microenterprises through improvement of access to 
microfinance facilities. The Project is complementary to the activities undertaken under the Loan 
Agreement entered into between the Republic of the Philippines and the Bank dated December 14, 
Page  3
1999, for the Mindanao Rural Development Project, Loan Number 4522-PH.
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the following activities 
(Activities):
Part A
:
Microenterprise Finance
Increase the availability of capital to local microenterprises by: (1) the provision of training and 
advisory services to develop and strengthen local microfinance delivery units; and (2) the 
provision of Sub-loans through Financial Intermediaries for onlending to Beneficiaries for 
carrying out specific development investments (Sub-projects) in: agricultural and fisheries 
processing and marketing; distribution, marketing and retailing of agricultural inputs and 
agricultural and fisheries products; provision of agricultural-related services; and small 
manufacturing and handicrafts, including farm and non-farm-related microenterprises.
The Activity is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$526,000.
Part B
:
Microenterprise Development Assistance
Assist in the establishment of local centers, which are organized to provide services to the local 
community for the development, establishment, management and operation of microenterprises, 
through the provision of technical assistance and equipment.
The Activity is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$61,500.
Part C
:
New Credit Delivery Approach Pilots
Pilot test approaches to: (1) expand outreach, enhance sustainability, improve service and 
quality of local microfinance institutions; and (2) support the diversification of lending to 
targeted groups, through the provision of advisory services and training.
The Activity is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$93,000.
Part D
:
Activity Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitor and evaluate the carrying out of activities under Parts A, B and C above through the 
provision of technical assistance.
The Activities are estimated to cost the equivalent of US$19,000.
Part E
:
Project Management and Administration
Establish a Project Management Office, to be responsible for day-to-day operations, 
coordination, facilitation and management of Project activities, through the provision of 
training, technical assistance, and operational support. 
The Activity is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$94,960. 
Part F
:
Audits
Page  4
Carry out two annual audits of the accounts and financial statements of expenditures relating to 
the activities described in Parts A through E above.
The Activity is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$14,000.
1.3.
For purposes of this Letter Agreement
 
the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means an entity or an individual responsible for carrying out a 
Sub-project, and the term “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all of such Beneficiaries”;
(b)
“Fiscal year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 and ending 
on December
31;
(c)
“Financial Intermediary” means local microfinance conduits selected in accordance to 
the procedures and criteria set forth in the Operations Manual;
(d)
“Operations Manual” means the manual  to be developed pursuant to paragraph 1 of 
Schedule
2
to the Project Agreement, as such manual may be revised from time to time with the 
approval of the Bank;
(e)
“Project Management Office” means the project management unit established within 
the Recipient, pursuant to Part E of the Project;
(f)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Part A(2) Special Account, and the Parts 
A(1), and B through F Special Account, and “Special Account” means any of the Special Accounts 
referred to in paragraph
4.7
of this Annex;
(g)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made, or proposed to be made by the Recipient to a Financial 
Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Grant, for onlending to a Beneficiary for the carrying out of a 
Sub-project, and the term “Sub-loans” means, collectively, all of such Sub-loans;
(h)
“Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the Recipient 
and a Financial Intermediary for purposes of onlending to a Beneficiary for the carrying out of a 
Sub-project, and the term “Sub-loan Agreements” means, collectively, all of such Sub-loan 
Agreements;
(i)
“Subsidiary loan” means a loan made, or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan, to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project, and the term 
“Subsidiary loans” means, collectively, all of such Subsidiary loans; 
(
j
)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Financial Intermediary and a Beneficiary for purposes of the carrying out of a Sub-project, and the term 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, all of such Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
(k)
“Sub-project” means a specific project carried out under Part A of the Project and 
utilizing the proceeds of a Subsidiary loan, and the term “Sub-projects” means, collectively, all of such 
Sub-projects.
2.
Implementation Generally
Page  5
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly 
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and 
results of the Project.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Project.
2.2.
In carrying out Part A (2) of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
by August 31, 2002, prepare and adopt a Sub-project operations manual (
“Operations Manual”) 
acceptable to the Bank, as such manual may be amended with the prior agreement of the Bank, for the
implementation of Part A
(2) of the Project, which Operations Manual shall include:
the procedure and criteria for appraisal and selection of Financial Intermediaries, 
Beneficiaries, Municipalities and Sub-projects, including that: 
(1)
Financial Intermediaries are eligible to participate under Part A (2) of the Project only if their 
operations are located in any of the selected Municipalities;
(2)
Beneficiaries are eligible to participate in a Sub-project if they are individuals or members of 
peoples’ organizations whose microenterprises are located in any of the selected Municipalities; and
(3)
Sub-Projects are eligible for financing under this Grant if their activities relate to agricultural and 
fisheries processing and marketing; distribution, marketing and retailing of agricultural inputs and of
agricultural and fisheries products; provision of agricultural-related services; and small manufacturing 
and handicrafts, including farm and non-farm-related microenterprises; that separate records and 
accounts are maintained by the Beneficiary in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect
operations, resources and expenditures of the Sub-project and, as the Bank shall reasonably request from 
time to time, furnish said records and accounts to the Bank’s representatives for examination; terms and 
conditions governing the Sub-loan Agreements and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
procurement
procedures, including the procurement of goods, works and services through established local private
sector or commercial practices that are acceptable to the Bank, except that goods estimated to cost the
equivalent to US$1,000,000 or more shall be procured in accordance with the provisions on 
International Competitive Bidding as set forth in Attachment I to this Annex; and reporting requirements
and standard documentation;  enter into Sub-loan Agreements with selected Financial Intermediary for 
purposes of financing Sub-projects under terms and conditions set forth in the Operations Manual;
(c)
cause the Financial Intermediary to enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the 
Beneficiary under terms and conditions set forth in the Operations Manual for purposes of financing a 
Sub-project, and furnish to the Bank copies of said fully executed Subsidiary Loan Agreements as and 
when the Bank shall reasonably request;
(d)
take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that:  Sub-projects are carried out 
with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and in accordance with the procedures set out in the Operations Manual;  at least thirty percent (30%) 
of the total number of Beneficiaries approved each calendar year and of the total amount of Sub-loans 
approved each calendar year shall be carried out by Beneficiaries belonging to minority groups, such as 
women, Muslims and indigenous people; and a Sub-project proposal estimated to cost US$10,000 
Page  6
equivalent or more shall not be approved for financing unless and until the Bank has approved such 
Sub-project proposal;
(f)
exchanged views with the Bank
’s representatives on the progress and results of the 
Project and Sub-projects as the Bank shall reasonably request from time to time; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of a Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-loan which 
is suspended or terminated upon failure of the Beneficiary to perform its obligation under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
2.3.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor on a monthly basis and 
evaluate at mid-term and at the end of the Project, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
The Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank progress reports, including physical and financial reports, for each 
calendar quarter not later than
15
days after the end of each of said calendar quarter;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or 
about February 28, 2003, a report integrating the midterm results of the Project, based on monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank shall request, 
the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; 
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or 
about January 31, 2004, a report integrating the final results of the Project, based on monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(e)
review with the Bank, by February 29, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall request, 
the report referred to in paragraph
(d) of this Section.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for Parts A (1), B, C, D, E and F of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Annex. 
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to 
the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable 
currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Page  7
Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and that any 
repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project:
Amount of
%
of
the Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(
in United States dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants
’
services
346,540
100%
(2)
Training
20,920
100%
(3)
Goods
103,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and
95%
of local
expenditures for other
items procured
locally
(4)
Sub-loans
324,000
100% of Sub-loan
amount disbursed
(5)
Incremental operating
costs for auditing
14,000
100%
TOTAL
808,460
For purposes of this paragraph:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Republic of the Philippines for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Republic of the Philippines; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures in the currency of the Republic of 
the Philippines or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Republic of the Philippines.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account
:
(i) for payments made for 
Page  8
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$81,000, may be made on account of payments 
made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (5) before that date but after April 16, 2001; 
(ii) for payments made for expenditures under Category (4) unless and until the Operations Manual, 
acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted by the Recipient; (iii) on account of payments for any taxes 
levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iv) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in and  services supplied from such 
territories; or (v) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the Bank
’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after February
29, 2004, or such 
later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date); and 
(c)
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to 
another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the President of 
Advocates of Cotabato Rural Development, Inc., or such other person as he or she shall have authorized 
in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Project.  The Bank shall pay the 
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants costing less than US$40,000 equivalent each; and (c) training, goods, Sub-loans, and 
incremental operating costs for auditing, regardless of amount or cost; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in United 
States dollars the following two deposit accounts, each in a commercial bank specially authorized by 
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) one for purposes of Part A(2) of the Activities (the 
Part A(2) Special Account); and (ii) one for purposes of Parts A(1), and B through F of the Activities 
Page  9
(the Parts A(1), and B through F Special Account).  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph
(a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank
’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; (b) the 
right of the Recipient or the Republic of the Philippines, or any other entity to which the Bank has made
a
loan with the guarantee of the Republic of the Philippines, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six 
months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Page  10
Attachment I
Procurement and Consultants
’
Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 
1995
and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph
5
of Appendix
1
thereto.
Part C
:
Procurement Procedures
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed US$103,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to obtaining price quotations for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph
1
of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each of first five (5) contracts to be procured using shopping procedures, 
the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of 
Page  11
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth 
in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Consultants
’
Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in 
January
1997
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Quality
-
and Cost
-
based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph
3
of
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for Activities under Part A (1) of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1
and
3.5
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants
’
Qualifications
Services for Activities under Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost less than US$100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs
3.1
and
3.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for Activities under Parts C, D and E of the Project estimated to cost less than 
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs
3.8
through
3.11
of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for Activities under Parts A (1), B, C, D, E and F of the Project may be procured under 
Page  12
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants
’
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph
2
(a) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$40,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of
this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) with respect to the Part A(2) Special Account, 
Category
(4); and (ii) with respect to the Parts A(1), and B through F Special Account, Categories (1), 
(2), (3) and (5); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to: (i) US$45,000 in 
respect to the Part A(2) Special Account; and (ii) US$50,000 in respect to the Parts A(1), and B through 
F
Special Account; to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  13
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank requests for deposits into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
3
of
this Attachment, the Bank shall not be required 
to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph
6.1
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
Page  14
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in any
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
