Page  1
```
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023302 - PH 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related 
to Loan Number 4522 – PH
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Mindanao Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated December 14, 1999
GEF Trust Fund Grant No. TF023302 - PH 
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1999, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of 
the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91\1e5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94\1e2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of Part D of the 
Project, and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of 
the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
Page  2
approved under Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF 
Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the 
first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2, and the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 and Resolution No. 98-2 referred to above; and 
(E)
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional financing 
assistance towards the financing of Parts A, B and C of the Project and by a Loan 
Agreement dated December 14, 1999 between the Recipient and the Bank (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount equal to twenty-seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($27,500,000) (the 
Loan); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans” of the Bank, dated 
January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (15), (16), 
(17), (19) and (20), 
2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), 
(o) and (p), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: “the 
term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as 
valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 
2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use 
of such term in Section 5.01 
thereof, means the Bank acting as 
an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the 
term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
Page  3
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this 
Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources 
available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Recipient’s central bank, and any 
successor thereto. 
(b)
“Barangay” means an administrative unit within a city or municipality.  
(c)
“Beneficiaries” means communities or individuals proposing a specific 
investment project under Part D.2 of the Project, and “Beneficiary” means any such 
Beneficiary. 
(d)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(e)
“DA” means the Recipient’s Department of Agriculture, and any successor 
thereto. 
(f)
“DAF” means the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries of the Autonomous 
Region of Muslim Mindanao, and any successor thereto. 
(g)
“DENR” means the Recipient’s Department of Environment and Natural 
Resources, and any successor thereto.
(h)
“DOF” means the Recipient’s Department of Finance, and any successor 
thereto. 
(i)
“Implementation Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
developed pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such manual may 
be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
(j)
“LGUs” means Local Government Units, which are political subdivisions of 
the Recipient at the provincial, city, municipal or barangay level, within the 
Province of Maguindanao and the Province of Sultan Kudarat, and “LGU” means any such 
Local Government Unit. 
(k)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement dated December 14, 1999, between the 
Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement; 
(l)
“Maguindanao” means the Recipient’s Province of Maguindanao, and any 
successor thereto. 
(m)
“NIPAS” means the National Integrated Protected Areas System Act of 1992 
Page  4
(Republic Act No.7586) and the Department Administrative Order No.25 Series 1992 on 
National Integrated Protected Areas System Implementing Rules and Regulations issued 
by DENR.  
(n)
“PCO” means the Program Coordination Office to be maintained by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
(o)
“Program” means the Recipient’s Mindanao Rural Development Program as set 
out in a letter from the Recipient dated June 22, 1999, describing a program designed 
to reduce poverty among the rural communities within the twenty-four provinces in 
Mindanao, Philippines, by improving their income and food security. 
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.  
(q)
“Sub-projects” means specific investment projects to be carried out under 
Part D.2 of the Project utilizing the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and 
“Sub-project” means any such project.
(r)
“Sultan Kudarat” means the Recipient’s Province of Sultan Kudarat, and 
any successor thereto. 
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 1,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out Part D 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Part D of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically 
authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) Parts A, B and C of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article 
III and Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement; and (ii) Part D of the Project through (A) 
DA, in coordination with DAF, in Maguindanao and (B) DENR in Sultan Kudarat, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
management, economic and financial practices and with due regard to ecological and 
environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for said Part D. 
(b)
 Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the purposes of Part D of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall, through DENR, maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part D 
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for 
carrying out Part D of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Loan Agreement; 
(b)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan made to 
the Recipient for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement, or 
(c)
the Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of 
the General Conditions:  
(a)
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled. 
(b)
DA and DENR shall have executed a Cooperation Agreement, on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank, setting forth their cooperation and coordination 
arrangement and their respective responsibilities for carrying out Part D of the 
Project.  
(c)
DA and DENR shall have adopted and put into effect the Implementation 
Manual, developed in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and 
the same shall have been approved by the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd.
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
SECFIN
40268 CB-CONF
Page  7
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
By /s/ Edgardo B. Espiritu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava 
Authorized Representative
Schedule 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Part D 
   105,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
90% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(2)
Consultants’ services 
    680,000
100%
under Part D of the 
Project
(3) 
Training, study tours 
    100,000
100%
and workshops under 
Page  8
Part D of the Project
(4)
Incremental Operating 
Costs of DA for:
(a) calendar year    
       3,700
70%
2000
(b) calendar year 
3,700
70%
2001
(c) calendar year 
3,700
70%
2002
(5)
Incremental Operating 
Costs of DENR for
(a) calendar year 
3,700
70%
2000
(b) calendar year 
3,700
70%
2001
(c) calendar year 
3,700
70%
2002
(6)
Unallocated
      92,800
TOTAL
   1,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient. 
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs of DA" means expenditures made on 
account of the operating costs (excluding salaries) of DA, PCO and LGUs in the 
implementation of Part D of the Project in Maguindanao, including the cost of office 
supplies, utilities, operating office equipment and vehicles and staff travel.
(d)
the term "incremental operating costs of DENR" means expenditures made on 
account of the operating costs (excluding salaries) of DENR, PCO and LGUs in the 
implementation of Part D of the Project in Sultan Kudarat, including the cost of 
office supplies, utilities, operating office equipment and vehicles and staff travel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods, regardless of the cost thereof; 
(b)
consultants’ services under contracts with: (i) firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (ii) individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; 
(c)
training, study tours, and workshops; all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
Page  9
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
Schedule 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in: (i) improving the 
income and food security of selected agricultural and fishing communities within the 
twenty-four provinces of Mindanao; (ii) strengthening institutional and technical 
capacities of local governments and institutions; and (iii) protecting and conserving 
marine biodiversity.
The Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Program, consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Bank 
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Infrastructure  
1.
Rural Roads
Development and implementation of programs to improve rural roads, consisting 
of: (a)  rehabilitation of provincial and farm-to-market roads (FMR); and (b) routine 
maintenance of such roads.  
2.
Communal Irrigation
Development and implementation of programs to improve communal irrigation 
systems, consisting of: (a) rehabilitation of community owned and managed run-of-river 
communal irrigation schemes; and (b) selective construction of new communal irrigation 
systems.  
3.
Water Supply 
Development and implementation of programs to provide safe potable water, 
consisting of the establishment and upgrading of spring development schemes.
Part B:
Community Development Sub-projects 
Development and implementation of programs to address diverse investment 
priorities of rural communities, consisting of the financing of sub-projects which 
meet community preferences and respond to national government priorities for 
supporting small-scale agricultural and fishery development.
Part C:
Institutional and Implementation Support 
1.
Microfinance Institutions and Cooperatives 
Development and implementation of programs to improve the institutional capacity 
of rural financial institutions, including cooperatives and microfinance institutions, 
to deliver small-scale credit and other financial services to rural communities.  
2.
 Local Government Units
Development and implementation of programs to: (a) strengthen communities’ and 
LGUs’ capacity to identify, prioritize, design, implement, monitor and evaluate 
projects and maintain assets created thereunder; (b) enhance municipal and provincial 
governments’ capacity for rural development planning, providing agricultural and 
fishery technical services, undertaking mini-demonstrations to link research and 
extension, project implementation, monitoring and evaluation, financial management and 
resource allocation; and (c) strengthen the capacity of the Borrower’s agencies to 
deliver advisory services to LGUs. 
3.
Program Coordination Office
Strengthening the capacity of the Program Coordination Office to provide 
implementation support to LGUs and coordinate overall Project implementation and 
facilitate preparation of the next phase of the Program through the provision of 
Page  10
consultants’ services and goods.
Part D:
Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Conservation
Promotion of coastal and marine biodiversity conservation in, and sustainable 
use of, the coastal waters of Mindanao by:  
1.
establishing marine sanctuaries at two pilot sites;  
2.
developing and carrying out sub-projects to enhance alternative income 
generation activities for coastal communities;  
3.
strengthening community-based surveillance of coastal resources and capacity of 
communities and regulators in the enforcement of marine resources regulations through 
the provisions of goods and consultants’ services through the provision of goods, 
consultants’ services, and training; and 
4.
developing skills of communities and government staff in marine biodiversity 
conservation methods through the provision consultants’ services and training.
*      *       * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
Schedule 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $116,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts or obtaining price 
quotations for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part D of the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
Page  11
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract for the procurement of goods, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services to be provided by non-governmental organizations (NGO) which are 
estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $50,000 equivalent per NGO, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Part D of the Project, including terms of 
reference, shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost equal or more than $200,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost equal or more than $100,000 equivalent, but less than $200,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
Page  12
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Schedule 4
Implementation Program 
Project Management 
1.
The Recipient shall maintain at least one qualified and experienced staff member 
in the PCO, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for the 
overall coordination of activities under Part D of the Project. 
2.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
develop in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish 
to the Bank for approval, a manual of operations for Part D of the Project, which sets 
forth, inter alia, policies and procedures for the activities to be carried out under 
said Part D, for monitoring said activities, for the preparation, appraisal and 
approval and implementation of Sub-projects, and for LGU and community participation 
in said activities;
(b)
thereafter, carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with such 
manual as shall have been approved by the Bank; and
(c)
shall not amend, delete, suspend or waive any part of said manual, 
without the prior approval of the Bank.
Implementation of Part D.1
3.
Under Part D.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
not later than August 31, 2000, furnish to the Bank for comments: (i) the 
results of the resource surveys of proposed marine sanctuaries and control areas, 
carried out in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the 
reports of stakeholder consultations, carried out in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the establishment and management of marine 
sanctuaries and conservation buffer zones; and (iii) the Recipient’s recommendations 
based on said survey results and consultation reports;  
(b)
in accordance with the provisions of NIPAS and taking into account the 
Bank’s comments on the items furnished pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
prepare resource profiling results necessary for the designation of marine sanctuaries 
as protected areas and present said results to the Secretary of the DENR not later 
than December 31, 2000; and 
(c)
(i) prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an annual 
project impact assessment (PIA) of marine sanctuaries so designated as protected 
areas, by reference to selected control areas, together with any recommendations based 
on such PIA to further promote the conservation of biodiversity in said protected 
areas; (ii) furnish said PIA to the Bank on December 31 of each year, commencing on 
December 31, 2001; and (iii) thereafter, promptly carry out said recommendations, 
taking into account the views of the Bank thereon. Implementation of Part D.2 of the 
Project
4.
Under Part D.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
not later than March 31, 2000, appoint, in each of Maguindanao and Sultan 
Kudarat, without limitation to the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, a 
non-governmental organization whose terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the 
Page  13
Bank, to be responsible for (i) assisting the Beneficiaries in developing proposals 
for Sub-projects; and (ii) submitting said proposals to the selection committees to be 
established pursuant to paragraph 4(b) below;
(b)
not later than April 30, 2000, establish in each of Maguindanao and 
Sultan Kudarat, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, a committee 
composed of representatives of LGUs, relevant barangays and municipalities, DA and 
DENR, each said committee to be responsible for (i) reviewing the proposals for 
Sub-projects in its respective province and ensuring their compliance with policies 
and procedures set forth in the Implementation Manual; and (ii) submitting 
recommendations to the Recipient on said proposals;
(c)
approve the proposals for Sub-projects submitted by the selection 
committees pursuant to paragraph 4(b) above, only if it is determined on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank that: 
(i)
said Sub-project constitutes an alternative income generating 
activity to an 
activity that is destructive to the marine 
environment;  
(ii)
said Sub-project is financially viable, technically feasible and 
environmentally sound; 
and
(iii)
the Beneficiary: (A) is creditworthy; (B) possesses the technical 
skills and 
resources required for the carrying out of said 
Sub-project; and (C) has undertaken 
to use the goods and services to 
be made available under said Sub-project 
exclusively 
for the purposes of said Sub-project; and
(d)
make available, free of charge, to the Beneficiaries of each Sub-project 
that has been approved pursuant to paragraph 4(c) of this Schedule, consultants’ 
services and goods financed from the proceeds of this Grant.  
Monitoring and Reporting
5.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by March 31 and September 30 of each year, a semi-annual report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph 5 of this Schedule, in respect of the preceding calendar semester; 
(c)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank by March 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 5(a) of this Schedule, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of Part D of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(d)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 5(c) of this Schedule, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part D of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Schedule 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  14
(a)
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of 
Part D of the Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part D the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Page  15
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
