Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4522 - PH
Loan Agreement
(Mindanao Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 14, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4522 - PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated June 22, 
1999, describing a program designed to reduce poverty among the rural communities 
within the twenty-four provinces in Mindanao, Philippines, by improving their incomes 
and food security (the Program, as hereinafter defined) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of said Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Bank assist in the financing of the 
Program, through a series of loans, over a period of approximately twelve years;  
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which Project 
forms the first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
a grant (the Grant) in an amount equivalent to one million Special Drawing Rights to 
assist in the financing of Part D of the Project, on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the Grant Agreement) to be entered into between GEF and the 
Borrower; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the  Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution and initial operation 
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“ADP” means one or more agricultural development programs under Part A, 
B, C(1) or C(2) of the Project, which satisfies the requirements set forth or referred 
to in paragraphs 4 through 9 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and “ADPs” means, 
collectively, all such programs. 
(b)
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each LGU, an amount of the Loan 
allocated by the Borrower to said LGU and to be utilized by said LGU for purposes of 
carrying out its ADP. 
(c)
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Borrower’s central bank, and any 
successor thereto. 
(d)
“Barangay” means an administrative unit within a city or municipality. 
(e)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(f)
“DA” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture, and any successor 
thereto. 
(g)
“DENR” means the Borrower’s Department of Environment and Natural 
Resources, and any successor thereto. 
(h)
“DOF” means the Borrower’s Department of Finance, and any successor 
thereto. 
(i)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, through DA, and a LGU in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(j)
“LGUs” means Local Government Units, which are political subdivisions of 
the Borrower at the provincial, city, municipal or barangay level, within the 
twenty-four provinces of Mindanao, and "LGU” means any such Local Government Unit. 
(k)
“MDFO” means the Municipal Development Fund established under 
Presidential Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984, and reorganized, functionally and 
structurally as Municipal Development Fund Office under President’s Executive Order 
Number 41 dated November 20, 1998, and administered by DOF, to make financial 
resources available to local governments for duly approved specific projects or 
activities, and any successor thereto.
Page  3
(l)
“Memorandum of Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01(c) of this Agreement, to be entered between DOF and DA. 
(m)
“MPDO” means, in respect of a municipal LGU, the Municipal Planning and 
Development Office to be maintained by said LGU in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph (1)(a)(ii) of Section II of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(n)
“Multisectoral Committee” means, in respect of a municipal LGU, the 
committee to be established and maintained by said LGU in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph (1)(b) of Section II of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(o)
“NIA” means the National Irrigation Administration, a government-owned 
entity established pursuant to Republic Act 3601, as amended by Presidential Decree 
No. 552 and No.1702, under the jurisdiction of DA, responsible for irrigation 
development, including the design and construction of communal irrigation systems, and 
any successor thereto. 
(p)
“Operations Manual” means a manual to be developed pursuant to paragraph 
2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such manual may be revised from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank. 
(q)
“Participating LGU” means a LGU carrying out an ADP being financed by the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
(r)
“PCO” means the Program Coordination Office to be maintained by the 
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this  
Agreement. 
(s)
“PMB” means the Program Management Board established pursuant to 
Executive Order No. 474 of the President dated March 24, 1998, and to be maintained by 
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(t)
“PPIU” means, in respect of a provincial LGU, the project implementation 
unit to be established and maintained by said LGU in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph (1)(a)(i) of Section II to the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(u)
“Program” means the Borrower’s Mindanao Rural Development Program as set 
out in the letter from the Borrower referred to in paragraph (A) of the Preamble to 
this Agreement. 
(v)
“Special Accounts” means the two special accounts referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement; and “Special Account” means any of the Special Accounts.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($27,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special deposit accounts in commercial banks specifically authorized for 
this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment: 
(i) one such account for purposes of Parts A and B of the Project (the Parts A and B 
Special Account); and (ii) one such account for purposes of Part C of the Project 
(Part C Special Account).  Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in dollar for 
value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by 
the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable on June 15 and 
December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Parts A(1), A(3) and B of the Project 
through LGUs; (ii) Part A(2) of the Project through NIA; (iii) Part C of the Project 
through DA; and (iv) Part D of the Project through DA and DENR, with due diligence and 
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, management, economic, 
financial and environmental practices and in accordance with the Operations Manual, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall:  
(i)
in respect of Parts A(1), A(3) and B of the Project, make 
available to LGUs, 
through MDFO, the Loan proceeds allocated for 
said parts of the Project;  
(ii)
in respect of Part A(2) of the Project, make available to NIA, 
through MDFO, the 
Loan proceeds allocated for said part of the 
Project; and  
(iii)
in respect of Part C of the Project, make available to DA the Loan 
proceeds 
allocated for said part of the Project, all under 
terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank.  To that end, the 
Borrower shall make such funds available to the 
LGUs, NIA and 
DA under a memorandum of agreement to such effect, satisfactory to 
the Bank, between DOF and DA. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Memorandum of Agreement 
entered into pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) above, in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Memorandum of Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the purposes of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Page  6
Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, 
and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
Page  7
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by April 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions 
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of 
the Bank that adequate funds for Part D of the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Grant shall have been 
suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Grant Agreement. 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination 
is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations 
of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b)(i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
The Borrower, through DA, shall have entered into Implementation 
Agreements with at least two provincial LGUs. 
(b)
DOF shall have executed a Memorandum of Agreement with DA pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement. 
(c)
DA shall have adopted and put into effect the Operations Manual in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Implementation Agreement 
with each of the provincial LGUs referred to in Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and said LGU, and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and said LGU in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  8
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd.
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
SECFIN
40268 CB-CONF
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Edgardo B. Espiritu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan allocated
   % of 
Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars
to be financed 
Page  9
(1)
Works under Part A 
  19,900,000
80%
of the Project
(2)
Goods under:
(a) Part A of the Project 
     100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90%
of local expenditures
for other items pro-
cured locally
(b)
Part C of the Project
   1,100,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90% 
of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally
(3)
Works, goods and 
   3,300,000
55%
services under Part B 
of the Project
(4)
Consultants’ services
and training under: 
(a) Part A of the Project
     200,000
100%
(b) Part C of the Project
     900,000
100%
(5)
Incremental Operating 
Costs for:
(a) calendar year 2000
     200,000
30%
(b) calendar year 2001
     200,000
30%
(c) calendar year 2002
     100,000
30%
(6)
Fee
     275,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   1,225,000
TOTAL
  27,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means: (i) the cost of fixed-term 
staff contracted by the PCO and remuneration of staff seconded to the PCO to work on 
the Project; and (ii) the cost of office supplies, operating equipment and vehicles 
and staff travel incurred by PCO in the implementation of the Project.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $300,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories 1 and 2 on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
Page  10
date but after June 1, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each (other 
than those referred to in Section I.D.2(iv) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement);  
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each (other 
than those referred to in Section I.D.2(iii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); 
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent or less than $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and 
(d)
Incremental Operating Costs and training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the 
income and food security of selected agricultural and fishing communities within the 
twenty-four provinces of Mindanao; (ii) strengthening institutional and technical 
capacities of local governments and institutions; and (iii) protecting and conserving 
marine biodiversity.
The Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Program, consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank 
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Infrastructure  
1.
Rural Roads
Development and implementation of programs to improve rural roads, consisting 
of: (a)  rehabilitation of provincial and farm-to-market roads (FMR); and (b) routine 
maintenance of such roads.  
2.
Communal Irrigation
Development and implementation of programs to improve communal irrigation 
systems, consisting of: (a) rehabilitation of community owned and managed run-of-river 
communal irrigation schemes; and (b) selective construction of new communal irrigation 
systems.  
3.
Water Supply 
Development and implementation of programs to provide safe potable water, 
consisting of the establishment and upgrading of spring development schemes.
Part B:
Community Development Sub-projects 
Development and implementation of programs to address diverse investment 
priorities of rural communities, consisting of the financing of sub-projects which 
meet community preferences and respond to national government priorities for 
supporting small-scale agricultural and fishery development.
Part C:
Institutional and Implementation Support 
1.
Microfinance Institutions and Cooperatives 
Development and implementation of programs to improve the institutional capacity 
of rural financial institutions, including cooperatives and microfinance institutions, 
to deliver small-scale credit and other financial services to rural communities.  
2.
Local Government Units
Page  11
Development and implementation of programs to: (a) strengthen communities’ and 
LGUs’ capacity to identify, prioritize, design, implement, monitor and evaluate 
projects and maintain assets created thereunder; (b) enhance municipal and provincial 
governments’ capacity for rural development planning, providing agricultural and 
fishery technical services, undertaking mini-demonstrations to link research and 
extension, project implementation, monitoring and evaluation, financial management and 
resource allocation; and (c) strengthen the capacity of the Borrower’s agencies to 
deliver advisory services to LGUs. 
3.
Program Coordination Office
Strengthening the capacity of the Program Coordination Office to provide 
implementation support to LGUs and coordinate overall Project implementation and 
facilitate preparation of the next phase of the Program through the provision of 
consultants’ services and goods.
Part D:
Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Conservation
Promotion of coastal and marine biodiversity conservation in, and sustainable 
use of, the coastal waters of Mindanao by:  
1.
establishing marine sanctuaries at two pilot sites;  
2.
developing and carrying out sub-projects to enhance alternative income 
generation activities for coastal communities;  
3.
strengthening community-based surveillance of coastal resources and capacity of 
communities and regulators in the enforcement of marine resources regulations through 
the provision of goods, consultants’ services, and training; and
4.
developing skills of communities and government staff in marine biodiversity 
conservation methods through the provision consultants’ services and training. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
June 15, 2005
590,000 
December 15, 2005
610,000 
June 15, 2006
625,000 
December 15, 2006
645,000 
June 15, 2007
660,000 
December 15, 2007
680,000 
June 15, 2008
700,000 
December 15, 2008
720,000 
June 15, 2009
740,000 
December 15, 2009
760,000 
June 15, 2010
785,000 
December 15, 2010
805,000 
June 15, 2011
830,000 
December 15, 2011
855,000 
June 15, 2012
875,000 
December 15, 2012
905,000 
June 15, 2013
930,000 
December 15, 2013
955,000 
June 15, 2014
980,000 
December 15, 2014
     1,010,000
June 15, 2015
     1,040,000 
December 15, 2015
     1,070,000 
June 15, 2016 
     1,100,000 
Page  12
December 15, 2016
     1,130,000 
June 15, 2017
     1,165,000 
December 15, 2017
     1,195,000 
June 15, 2018
     1,230,000 
December 15, 2018
     1,265,000 
June 15, 2019
     1,300,000 
December 15, 2019
     1,345,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Works and Goods
Part A:
General 
Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate not to exceed $11,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
4.
Force Account 
Page  13
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
estimated to less than $4,100,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts A(2) and B of the Project that are estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $10,000,000 equivalent and provided that the aggregate amount per NGO shall not 
exceed $300,000, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply 
with respect to the following contracts (but excluding contracts to be procured using 
force account and community participation procedures in accordance with Parts C.4 and 
C.5 of this Section I): each contract for works and goods to be procured using 
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Part B of this Section 
I;  each contract for works or goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more and 
to be procured using national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with of 
Part C.1 of this Section I; (iii) in each calendar year, the first contract for works, 
regardless of the cost thereof, procured by each LGU for which invitations to bid are 
issued in that calendar year; and  (iv)
the first three contracts for goods, 
regardless of the cost thereof. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
of the contracts referred to in subparagraph (i) thereof is to be procured under 
national shopping procedures in accordance with Part C.2 of this Section or small 
works procurement procedures in accordance with Part C.3 of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under national shopping 
procedures or 
contractor under small works procurement 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under such 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  14
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services to be provided by non-governmental organizations (NGO) which are 
estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $50,000 equivalent per NGO, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost equal or more than $200,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost equal or more than $100,000 equivalent, but less than $200,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Page  15
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, with composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable 
to the Bank:
(a)
a Program Management Board, chaired by the Secretary, DA, to be 
responsible for providing overall direction and guidance for Project implementation; 
and
(b)
a Program Coordination Office within DA and located in Mindanao, to be 
responsible for: (i) the overall facilitation and coordination of Project activities 
implementation; (ii) promotion of the ADPs; (iii) providing implementation support to 
Participating LGUs; (iv) supporting Participating LGUs in the development of their ADP 
annual work plans and budgets and consolidating said plans and budgets; and 
(v) consolidating the annual audited financial statements for the Project for 
submission to the Bank. 
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
develop in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish 
to the Bank for approval, a manual of operations for Parts A, B, C(1) and C(2) of the 
Project, which sets forth, inter alia, procedures and standards for the selection of 
LGUs to participate in an ADP and for the preparation, appraisal and approval of said 
ADP; ADP technical standards and design; policies and procedures for environmental 
impact management and monitoring of said ADP, for the acquisition of land and other 
assets under said ADP and compensation therefor; and guidelines regarding LGU and 
community participation in said ADP;
(b)
thereafter, carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project in accordance with 
such manual as shall have been approved by the Bank; and
(c)
shall not amend, delete, suspend or waive any part of said manual, 
without the prior approval of the Bank.
3.
With respect to Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall, through the 
PCO: (a) furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31 in each year, for review and 
approval, an annual work plan for the implementation of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project in the following year; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan and, thereafter, promptly take all 
actions necessary to implement said plan, taking into account the views of the Bank on 
the matter. 
ADPs
4.
A program referred to in Parts A, B, C(1) or C(2) of the Project, of which: 
Parts A(1), A(3) and B are to be carried out by a LGU; Part A(2) is to be carried out 
by NIA; and Parts C(1) and C(2) are to be carried out by DA, shall all qualify as an 
ADP eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if: 
(a)
the Borrower has determined in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, including the Operations Manual, that the requirements set out in paragraphs 
5 through 9 below have been met; 
(b)
the Bank has notified the Borrower of the Bank’s approval of the proposed 
program; and 
(c)
the Borrower has entered into an Implementation Agreement with the LGU in 
respect of an ADP under Parts A(1), A(3) and B of  the Project, which is legally 
binding on the parties in accordance with its terms.  
Page  16
5.
The proposed program shall be economically and financially viable, and 
technically feasible, and shall have been designed in accordance with appropriate 
standards and practices as set forth in the Operations Manual.
6.
The LGU shall have the organization, management and resources required for the 
proper carrying out of the proposed program, and to this end, has established a PPIU, 
MPDO or Multisectoral Committee, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1(a) 
and 1(b) respectively of Section II of the Annex to this Schedule. 
7.
A program proposed for inclusion under Part A of the Project shall satisfy the 
following requirements:
(a)
(i) an analysis of the environmental effects of activities under such 
program has been prepared; (ii) if applicable according to the provisions of the 
Operations Manual, an environmental impact assessment, satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been undertaken and mitigation measures designed, on the basis of environmental 
standards acceptable to the Bank, including those set forth in said manual; and 
(iii) in the event an environment compliance certificate is required under Philippines 
laws or regulations, such certificate has been obtained from the Borrower’s 
Environmental Management Bureau or its instrumentality at the regional level in 
respect of the activities under said program;  
(b)
if the activities under such program involve resettlement of persons or 
property or livelihood of persons will be affected by said activities, such persons 
have been resettled, compensated, and/or rehabilitated in accordance with a 
resettlement action plan, prepared in accordance with policies and procedures 
acceptable to the Bank, including those in the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, 
Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons set forth in the 
Operations Manual; 
(c)
if the activities under such program involve communities with indigenous 
peoples, a plan that incorporates mechanisms for the informed participation of such 
peoples in the design and implementation of such program, has been designed in 
accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank, including those in the 
Indigenous Peoples Development Framework as set forth in the Operations Manual.
(d)
in the case of a program under Part A(1) of the Project: (i) the rural 
roads proposed for inclusion in said program have been prioritized by the 
Multisectoral Committee; and (ii) each proposed rural road is: (A) designed to link 
with an existing all weather road and to establish a vital link with existing or 
potential key production areas; and (B) the construction of said rural road is 
economically justified by the projected traffic usage of such road;
(e)
in the case of a program under Part A(2) of the Project, the community 
irrigation system proposed for inclusion in said program: 
(i)
(A) was constructed more than five (5) years prior to the date of 
said proposal for 
inclusion and has not been rehabilitated during said 
five-year period; or (B) has 
been damaged by a natural 
calamity within said five-year period;  
(ii)
that is located, in whole or part, on land eligible for 
redistribution under the 
Borrower’s Comprehensive Agricultural 
Reform shall be included in said proposal 
only where less than 
20% of said land is eligible for distribution.  For land with 
more 
than 20% of its area eligible for redistribution, it may be included in said 
proposal only after a certificate for land ownership award has been 
issued for said 
land; and 
(iii)
the farmers who will utilize said irrigation system have actively 
participated in 
the preparation of the system design and 
feasibility study; and 
(f)
in the case of a program under Part A(3) of the Project,:  
(i)
the proposed site for the water supply scheme to be included in 
said program has 
been demonstrated to have a reliable water 
Page  17
supply throughout the year and water 
samples obtained from said 
site are certified by relevant authorities to be free 
from 
contamination; and 
(ii)
a community association with adequate resources has been 
established to be 
responsible for managing said water 
supply scheme.
8.
A program proposed for inclusion under Part B of the Project shall satisfy the 
following requirements: 
(a)
the sub-project proposed to be included in said program has been prepared 
and submitted by community members organized as a group; 
(b)
said sub-project consists exclusively of eligible activities set forth in 
the Operations Manual; and 
(c)
forty percent (40%) of the expenditures proposed under said program is 
earmarked for activities targeted at women and ethnic minorities.  
9.
A program proposed for inclusion under Part C(1) or C(2) of the Project shall 
include a detailed implementation plan, including a budget and financing plan 
therefor, satisfactory to the Bank.
Implementation Agreements 
10.
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available to 
each LGU, the latter’s respective Allocated Amount on terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Bank and as set forth in an implementation agreement, which shall be entered 
into between the Borrower, through DA, and said LGU in accordance with the provisions 
of the Annex to this Schedule.
11.
The Borrower shall: (a) cause each LGU to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Implementation Agreement to which said LGU is a party, all of the 
obligations of said LGU therein set forth; (b) take or cause to be taken all actions, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable said LGU to perform such obligations; and (c) not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
12.
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights under each Implementation Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Implementation Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Part D of the Project 
13.
The Borrower shall carry out, and cause each LGU to carry out, Part D of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Financial Management Assessment
14.
The Borrower shall cause each provincial LGU carrying out an ADP, within twelve 
(12) months from the Bank’s notification of its approval of said ADP under paragraph 
4(b) of this Schedule, jointly with DOF: (a) to conduct a financial management 
assessment of municipal LGUs participating in said ADP; (b) to develop a financial 
management improvement plan based on said assessment, acceptable to the Bank; and (c) 
to cause said municipal LGUs to implement said plan. 
Monitoring and Reporting
15.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
Page  18
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by March 31 and September 30 of each year, a consolidated semi-annual 
report integrating the information provided in the reports, submitted by the LGUs 
pursuant to paragraph 7 of the Annex to this Schedule, in respect of the preceding 
calendar semester; 
(c)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank by March 31, 2002, a consolidated report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 15(a) of this 
Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 15(c) of this Schedule, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Annex To Schedule 5
For purposes of paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, each 
Implementation Agreement between the Borrower and a LGU shall contain the terms and 
conditions set forth below.   
Section I.
Borrower’s Rights and Obligations 
1.
The Allocated Amount shall be made available by the Borrower to each LGU, that 
proposes to carry out an ADP under Parts A(1), A(3) and B of the Project, as a mix of 
grant and loan, provided that  (a)
the minimum contribution (in cash or kind) 
from each LGU shall not be less than ten percent (10%) of total cost of said LGU’s 
ADP; and the loan portion, if any, shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years at a 
rate of interest equal to fourteen percent (14%) per annum, as such term and rate of 
interest may be amended from time to time by resolution of the MDFO Policy Governing 
Board.  
2.
The Borrower shall have the right to suspend the right of a LGU to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Allocated Amount upon failure by such LGU to perform any of its 
obligations under its Implementation Agreement.
Section II.
LGU’s Rights and Obligations 
Each LGU shall be obligated to carry out the following actions: Management of 
Each LGU’s Respective Part of the Project
1.
Each LGU that proposes to carry out an ADP: 
(a)
under Part A(1), A(3) or B of the Project: (i) shall, if it is a 
provincial LGU, establish and, thereafter, maintain a project implementation unit 
throughout the period of Project implementation; or (ii) if it is a municipal LGU, 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation its Municipal Planning and 
Development Office, in either case, with composition, terms of reference, staffing and 
other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for supporting project 
implementation activities, preparing annual work plans and budgets, undertaking 
monitoring and evaluation and overall accounting and financial management; and
(b)
under Part A(1) or B of the Project, shall establish and, thereafter, 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, with composition, terms of 
reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, a multisectoral 
committee to be responsible for supporting implementation of said part of the Project.  
General Implementation of each LGU’s Respective Part of the Project
2.
Each LGU shall carry out its ADP with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
Page  19
conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, financial, administrative, 
technical and environmental practices, and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor.
3.
Each LGU proposing to carry out:
(a)
an ADP under Part A of the Project, shall implement, where applicable: 
(i) environmental mitigation measures developed in accordance with paragraph 7(a) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement in respect of its ADP; and (ii) a plan for the 
participation of indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of its ADP, 
developed in accordance with paragraph 7(c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
an ADP under Part B of the Project, shall implement, where applicable: 
(i) mitigation measures designed on the basis of environmental standards acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) a plan for the appropriate compensation and rehabilitation of persons 
whose property or livelihood is affected by activities under said ADP; and (ii) a plan 
for the participation of indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of its 
ADP.  All plans and measures shall be developed in accordance with policy and 
procedures acceptable to the Bank, including those set forth in the Operations Manual.
4.
Each LGU shall ensure that:  
(a)
the goods, works and services required for its ADP and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
said goods shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the purchaser thereof to 
replace or repair such goods; and 
(c)
said goods, works and services shall be utilized exclusively for the 
purpose of carrying out its ADP.
5.
Each LGU shall enable the Borrower and the Bank to examine all goods, 
facilities, sites and works included in its ADP, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents.
6.
Each  LGU shall ensure that any facilities, equipment and other property 
relevant to its ADP shall at all times be operated and maintained, and that all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof shall be promptly made, as needed, all in 
accordance with sound financial, administrative and technical practices.
7.
Each LGU shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Bank, the carrying out of its ADP and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a semi-annual 
report summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph 7(a) of this Annex, on progress achieved in the carrying out of 
its ADP during the preceding calendar semester and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its ADP and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the next semi-annual period following such date and furnish 
the same to the Borrower to enable the Borrower to consolidate and submit the 
information pursuant to paragraph 15(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Financial Reporting 
8.
In carrying out its ADP, each LGU shall establish and maintain, records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to said ADP.
9.
Each LGU shall:
Page  20
(a)
have the records, accounts and financial statements, referred to in 
paragraph 8 of this Annex, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Borrower as soon as available for consolidation and 
forwarding to the Bank, but in any case not later than three months after the end of 
each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 9(a) of this Annex for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from 
time to time reasonably request. 
Programs under Part A(1) of the Project 
10.
Each LGU that proposes to carry out an ADP under Part A(1) of the Project, shall 
from March 31, 2000 (a) begin routine maintenance of sections of road networks agreed 
with the Bank; (b) in accordance with a maintenance program (including standards) 
acceptable to the Bank and (c) allocate funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for said maintenance.  
Programs under Part B of the Project 
11.
Each LGU that proposes to carry out an ADP under Part B of the Project, shall 
disseminate information (including the maintenance of  a bulletin board) on all 
sub-project proposals within its jurisdiction (including those approved and rejected 
under this Project) and the status of ongoing sub-projects, all in accordance with 
standards acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (i) in respect of the Parts A and 
B Special Account, an amount equivalent to $1,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000; and 
(ii) respect of the Part C Special Account, an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $800,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
Page  21
has been duly opened, withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for any Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account 
Page  22
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
