Report No. PID6732
Project Name                     Philippines-Mindanao Rural (@+#)
Development Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       PHPE58842
Implementing Agencies            Local Government Units (LGUs) in
Participating
Provinces of Mindanao; coordination by the
Department of Agriculture
Contact in DA: Director Cecilia Astilla
Planning and Monitoring Service
Department of Agriculture,
Elliptical Road, Quezon City
Facsimile: (63 2) 920 1407
Date of PID                      May 24, 1999
Projected Board Date             October 28, 1999
Background
1.      Poverty in the Philippines is predominantly a rural problem, with nearly half
of the rural population accounting for two-thirds of the poor in the country. The
agriculture sector of the country accounts for about a quarter of the country's GDP,
employs half the work force, and generates a fifth of total export earnings; and the
vast majority of the rural poor are engaged in farming or in artisanal fisheries.
Agriculture sector performance has been declining since the 1970s: the rate of
growth of agriculture decelerated from 5.8 percent during 1970-80, to average of 2.2
percent during 1990-95. Linked to reviving agriculture sector growth, the improved
management of the critical natural resource base in the upland areas is the other
major development challenge for the country, and has important implications for
ensuring the sustainability of broad-based rural growth, and for rural poverty
alleviation. It will also require an increase in rural non-farm production
activities. Since 1975, the share of industry in total employment has remained
virtually unchanged, being about 169 of total employment, and only about 6.5w of
rural employment.
2.     Responding to the above concerns, poverty alleviation is a central
feature of the development objectives which the Government has set for itself,
in drawing up the development plans for the next five years. With rural
poverty making up for most of the country's total poor, the intensification
and better management of the agriculture sector is seen to be extremely
important for realizing this objective. At the same time, the enactment of the
Local Government Code has devolved most of the responsibilities related to
supporting agricultural development and the management of the upland (where
many of the poor live, and practice farming) and coastal areas, to local
government units (LGUs). However, various issues related to the institutional
environment and capacity at the local level militate against LGU ability to
deliver on its responsibilities in this regard.
Project Objectives and Approach
3.     Past experience has shown that an effective program of poverty
alleviation requires a sustained long term commitment and involvement, which



is often difficult to ensure through a single investment operation.
Consequently, a phased long term program involving a series of four Adaptable
Program Loans (APL), each covering a period of between 3 to 4 years, is
proposed so as to effectively realize the above objectives, and secure
sustainability in institutional capacity building and poverty alleviation. The
proposed program also responds to the fact that Mindanao, which despite the
considerable potential for increasing agriculture production, has witnessed an
increase in the incidence of rural poverty since the early 1980s.
- Accordingly, the APL program is designed as a targeted poverty reduction
program for the rural poor and indigenous communities of Mindanao, aimed
specifically at improving incomes and food security in the targeted
rural communities within the 24 provinces of Mindanao. This would be
achieved from the implementation of better targeted agricultural and
fisheries-related rural development programs, and improved LGU
institutional, management and financial systems.
At the same time, given the long history of conflict on the island of
Mindanao, the realization of sustained rural growth and visible benefits to
conflict affected populations, will directly contribute to reinforcing the
Government's efforts at consolidating the peace initiatives for the island.
4.     APL1, which is the subject of this document, would focus on a few
selected provinces, to test out the approach, and initiate the process of
engaging LGUs and rural communities in designing and implementing a rural
development program, in close association with concerned national government
agencies (NGAs). Accordingly, it is designed as a targeted poverty reduction
program for the rural poor and indigenous communities of Mindanao, aimed
specifically at increasing agricultural production and improvements in
agricultural productivity, as well as the diversification of rural economic
activities. The experience and lessons from APL1 will help scale up the
program under APL2 to other provinces in Mindanao which meet eligibility
criteria. APL1 would realize these objectives by:
- Meeting community needs for essential rural infrastructure, to foster
increased agricultural productivity and access to potential markets;
facilitate the introduction of sustainable agricultural production systems
and diversification of present cropping systems; improved access to
financial resources and agricultural inputs; and more effective technical
support services. In doing so, the project would supporting the Government
in the implementation of the Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act
(AFMA).
- Enhancing devolution and local autonomy, by reinforcing the implementation
of the Local Government Code (LGC), as it relates to aspects concerning
agricultural and fisheries development and improved natural resources
management. The first phase project would aim to strengthen rural
development planning and implementation capacity of the different levels of
LGUs, in partnership with concerned NGAs; improve monitoring and evaluation
of ongoing rural development initiatives; and strengthening community
participation in LGU planning for rural development.
A strong participatory approach, using a program of social assessments, and
involving the rural community, the LGUs, and local representatives of national
government agencies (NGAs) would be a central feature of project
- 2-



implementation. The program of physical investments to be supported under the
project would be demand-driven and based on local priorities.
Project Description
5.     In support of smallholder farmers and the rural poor, the project is
being designed to target key constraints which have been inhibiting growth in
agricultural production and improvements in agricultural productivity. As
mentioned above, the specific components to be financed under the project
would be demand-driven and based on local priorities, to be determined through
a program of workshops and consultations during detailed project preparation.
Based on the work done to date on issues related to rural development,
including discussions on the proposed project with LGUs and intended
beneficiaries, it is expected that the components would fall within the
categories indicated below.
- Rural Roads: The project would support a program of rehabilitation of rural
roads (new construction would be considered as an exception, where it is
fully justified by potential for agricultural development), which link
agricultural production areas to the transport network, and roads within
and between barangays, the lack of which has adversely impacted agriculture
sector growth.
- Small-scale irrigation: Rehabilitation of communal irrigation systems
(CIS), and selectively, the construction of new projects which benefit
small farmers.
- Rural Water Supply: for rural communities in the targeted areas, which do
not have access to safe potable water supply, and where health of the
rural/agricultural labor force has been adversely impacted as a result.
- Community Funds for Agricultural Development (Annex 2b): To address the
diverse priorities of communities, Community Funds for Agricultural
Development (CF) will be set up at municipality level. These will finance
demand driven sub-projects which are consistent with DA's program and
priorities for supporting agricultural and fisheries development.
- Enhancing Devolution and Local Autonomy: Measures aimed at: (i)
strengthening role and capacity of the Local Development Councils and LGUs
for rural development planning, related resource management and monitoring;
(ii) linking technical skills enhancement related to the specific programs
to be implemented; (iii) strengthening the capacity of rural financial
intermediaries to effectively deliver credit; and building M&E capacity
locally; and (iv) supporting national government agencies in adapting to
their new roles in supporting LGUs under devolution.
- Coastal/Marine Biodiversity Conservation: Complementing the above
initiatives, and as an integral part of the overall MRDP Program, a
proposal for funds totaling US$1.25 million has been approved by the GEF
secretariat, to finance the incremental costs of promoting coastal and
marine biodiversity conservation and sustainable use in the coastal waters
of Mindanao.
- Overall Program Management: Support for overall Program Management and
Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation, and for technical studies and
survey work for subsequent phases of the APL.
Project Implementation
6.      Overall, the program would fall under the Department of Agriculture
(DA), and directed by a Program Management Board (PMB), chaired by the
-3 -



Secretary DA, which has already been established under an Executive Order from
the President. A senior official in DA's Regional Offices in each of the
participating Regions will be responsible for overseeing and facilitating MRDP
implementation from the DA's perspective. Given the Mindanao wide context of
the program, the Program Coordination Office (PCO), to be staffed by the DA,
would coordinate and support the implementation of the program. However, as
indicated earlier, the project is intended to support provincial rural
development programs; consequently, it is envisaged that implementation
responsibility for the components will lie with the concerned offices of the
LGUs within the participating provinces (at provincial, municipal and barangay
levels); involvement of the local level offices of the concerned national
government agencies is foreseen in supporting the LGUs. In line with this,
direct project planning and implementation responsibility would be vested in
the LGUs.
Lessons Learned
7.      In designing the proposed program, lessons from a variety of sources
have been taken into account; these were incorporated in the project
preparation terms of reference. A review of the Bank's experience with rural
development projects in different parts of the world, has highlighted the
following lessons: (i) ) commitment and ownership to the program is vital, not
just by Government, but by implementing agencies and the rural people directly
affected; (ii) project design must be simple, and should draw upon proven
technologies; and the goals must be realistic and precise; (iii) project
design must be flexible; (iv) beneficiary participation, at both the planning
stage and during implementation, is necessary; (v) credit and farm inputs are
often critical to success; (vi) arrangement for infrastructure maintenance
have to be in place from the start; (vii) community organization and build up
should precede infrastructure development.
8.     The Bank has supported numerous projects in agricultural development,
irrigation and rural infrastructure in the Philippines. The overriding lesson
from this experience is that centrally planned and executed investments in
rural infrastructure tend to receive secondary attention from the line
ministries at the center. As a result, delays are endemic, monitoring of
quality is limited and sustainability in terms of maintenance and operation is
uncertain at best. The conclusion is that active local participation and
responsibility from planning to design to implementation is essential. This
approach is consistent with the Government's substantial fiscal
decentralization.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The environmental impacts associated with the project relate to
construction related effects of road construction and rehabilitation; possible
unintended land use change as a result of new road construction; construction
impacts of small scale irrigation and water management. According to
environmental guidelines prepared for the project none of the sub-projects
proposed for MRDP qualify as environmentally critical projects as defined
under Philippines regulations. The project has potential environmental
benefits through its improvements in rural land management and its potential
for strengthening environmental and natural resource management capacity at
the level of LGUs. During project preparation a set of environmental
guidelines for review and screening of project sub-components has been
- 4 -



developed. These guidelines will be incorporated in to the Operations Manual.
The guidelines outline how the EIS will be integrated into the planning,
design and implementation of MRDP sub-projects.
Contact Point:
Mr. Rahul Raturi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 473-2536
Facsimile (202) 522-1675
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 13, 1999.
- 5 -



