E- 295
VOL. 1
KLAIPEDA STATE SEAPORT AUTHORITY
K;LAIPEDA PORT ENTRANCE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY






Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabliltation Project                                    HAIS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Klaipeda Harbour entrance will be improved by the construction of two new breakwaters to
extent the existing breakwaters, by the rehabilitation of the two existing breakwaters and by
deepening and widening the entrance channel and a part of the harbour basin to - 14 meters.
T he sediments to be dredged under this project comprise various types of soils of which a part is
contaminated. Of these sediments, all clean sands will be beneficially used. The contaminated
sediments would need to be dredged separately and stored in a confined disposal facility.
However, no such facility yet exists. The remaining clean glacial till and silty sediments will be
dumped at a designated disposal site about 20 kilometres offshore from Klaipeda. The project
and its impacts on the environment are extensively described in the Environment Impact
Assessment Report of the project, the executive summary of which is presented below.
1BACKGROUND
When in 1991 the independence of Lithuania was restored, the idea of creating a united, modem
and universal seaport was promoted. Since that date, the structure of Klaipeda Port has been
fundamentally reorganised and the port activities are now legislated by the Klaipeda Port Act. The
Klaipeda State Seaport Authority (KSSA) is in charge of the functioning of the Port and is respon-
sible for maintenance, reconstruction and modemisation of the Port infrastructure, while separate
independent terminals are managing operations.
Iln 1997, as part of "the Programme of Construction and reconstruction of infrastructure objects of
IKlaipeda State Seaport up to the year 2000", some 25 million USD were invested in the port
infrastructure. The navigational channel was deepened and at present ships with draft of up to
10.5 m can enter the Port.
-n- 1 996, as part of the overall plan and with the aim of increasing safety and reducing downtime
the KSSA requested Defft Hydraulics of the Netherlands to carry out a study on altemative
improvements to the sea entrance. The study included the evaluation of the design layouts on the
basis of a series of full mission simulations by the Maritime Simulation Centre of the Netherlands
in co-operation with Delft Hydraulics. This feasibility study provided the basis for a new design,
which included i.a. the construction of new breakwaters, deepening and widening of the access
channel and re-alignment of the axis of the inner harbour channel.
In 1997, KSSA requested the Lithuanian Energy Institute to carry out a technical study on the
proposed dredging works. This study provided the basis for the design of the dredging works and
the potential impact on the environment. It also addressed the impact of the dredging works on
the stability of the existing breakwaters.
In 1998, the KSSA commissioned Frederic R. Harris in association with EDC - Environmental &
Dredging Consultancy and Uostamiescio Projektas, to prepare the final design for the Klaipeda
Port Entrance rehabilitation, including the final design of the new breakwaters and the dredging
works, as well as this Environmental Impact Assessment.
The main purpose of the port entrance rehabilitation is to reduce wave penetration into the port
and give larger vessels improved and safe access to the porL The project is co-ordinated by
World Bank. The design works are financed by a grant from Netherlands and Japanese
Govemments.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    1                    September 1999
Execubte Summary



Kalapeda Port Entrarce Rehabilitabon Proect                                      HARRIS
NEED FOR REHABILITATION
The Port of Klaipeda is the main port of Lithuania. It is located on the south-east coast of the
Baltic Sea at the entrance of the Curonian lagoon. Particularly during the winter months, under
rough weather conditions, navigation through the entrance channel is dangerous and the deep
water berths at the oil port and the Klasco Port are unusable.
In the recent past a number of accidents occurred with ships running out of control at the
entrance of Klaipeda Port. Over the last 15 years four major accidents occurred. In two of these
cases the ship was wrecked and in one case there was major damage to a quay and cranes. One
of the accidents involved a tanker and resulted in a large oil spill. Taking the traffic volume into
consideration four major accidents in such a short period is clearly too much.
Especially entering or departing of loaded vessels of 20,000 DWT and more, compose a source
of potential danger. These ships must follow the relatively narrow channel and negotiate an
abrupt 23° bend, not wider than the channel itself and located directly at the entrance. When
inbound this leads to relatively high speeds in order to be able to compensate for wind, waves
and current while sailing within the channel limits. Slowing down or stopping occurs relatively
close to the oil terminals. Under severe weather conditions the length of the breakwaters provides
insufficient protection against waves to the tugs to allow them to assist these vessels should
assistance be required. If tankers must leave the oil terminals under emergency conditions, only a
relatively small distance is available to accelerate to a sufficiently high speed and an adequate
course to depart safely from the sheltered harbour area.
From the above it can be concluded that in its present state the nautical safety of the port is
below any intemational standard. In addition it is to be noted that the harbour's breakwaters
(especially the Southem one) have sustained damage during recent storms and possible further
damage would enhance the problems just mentioned.
ALTERNATIVES EVALUATED UNDER THIS EIA
Three altematives were considered under this EIA to address the need for rehabilitation.
Altemative 1: No-Action
In this altemative the present situation will remain unchanged. The proposed project will not be
executed, which means no dredging and construction activities will be carried out. This altemative
is taken as the "neutral' reference for comparison of the other two altematives.
Altemative 2: The Proposed (Original) Project
This altemative includes the construction of two new breakwaters and dredging of approximately
2 million m3 of sand, silt and glacial till sediments. In this project altemative, all dredged sands
(from the outer entrance channel) will be beneficially used for near shore or beach replenishment.
All silty sediments as well as all the glacial till sediments will be disposed off at the designated
offshore disposal site. In this altemative all non sand sediments will be dredged as one volume,
which means that no differentiation will be made between clean and contaminated sediments and
between silty sand and glacial till.
Alternative 3: The Proposed Project Plus Confined Disposal Facility
This altemative is the same as the proposed project, but with some changes in the execution of
the dredging works. In this altemative the contaminated sediments will be dredged separately
from the clean sediments and subsequently stored in a confined disposal facility (CDF). With
respect to the CDF it is to be noted that the feasibility, the design characteristics and the location
for implementation are still to be worked out Some initial studies have been carried in this
respect. Dredging of the contaminated sediments will be done in line with modem practice of
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessmern    2                    Septernber 1999
Executive Summary



IE
KJatpeda Port Entrarce Rehabilitaion Pr                                          HARRIS
removing contaminated sediments, i.e. with high dredging accuracy, minimal turbidity and
resuspension of contaminated sediments and minimal spill.
PROPOSED ACTION
*          EEach altemative was evaluated on a number of criteria both for the construction period and the
subsequent operational phase, and compliance with intemational environmental regulations.
Although the proposed project (altemative 2) already has a significant positive environmental
impact by reducing navigation hazards and consequently oil pollution risks at the Klaipeda port,
the planned offshore disposal of contaminated sediments is considered to be a violation of
intemational environmental agreements. Consequently, altemative 3 has been selected as the
IPreferred alternative and Proposed Action. This altemative will require the implementation of a
CDF. The CDF, which can be constructed from uncontaminated dredged materials (Glacial till),
should be designed to solve not only the contaminated sediment problem from this project, but
also to provide a solution for other contaminated sediment problems elsewhere in the port areas.
Details on contaminated sediments elsewhere in the port are included in this EIA.
Environmental information used to produce this document results from numerous studies and
field surveys by several agencies and investigators working in the study area over the past
several years. Especially the contributions of the experts of the Klaipeda University were
extremely useful. The summary of the data and interpretations presented are a synthesis of all
available information found to be recent, accurate, and applicable to the evaluations.
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
An opportunity to review the draft version of the EIA (in the Lithuanian language) was announced
tvice in the local Klaipeda newspaper. Public response was limited and the Port Authorities
received no formal comments on the EIA by December 31, 1998. In December 1998, copies of
the draft EIA have been presented to the Lithuanian Ministry of the Environment, the Klaipeda
Municipality, the Klaipeda County Govemor's Administration, the Klaipeda public health centre of
the Ministry of Health, the fire-fighting department of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Project
Expertise Bureau, the KSSA and to representatives of the World Bank, for review. By June 1999
only comments from the World Bank representatives had been received. A technical public
hearing was organised by the Port Authorities on May 11, 1999. The discussions focussed on the
costs of the breakwaters, the direct benefits of the works for Lithuanian contractors and the width
of the harbour opening. A public hearing on the environmental aspects of the project and the
resulting EIA was organised by the Port Authorities on September 15, 1999. During the meeting
serious concems were expressed by the participants in relation to the delay in implementing a
Confined Disposal Facility for safe storage of contaminated sediments and regarding the damage
of offshore dumping of dredged sediments on fisheries. The findings of the public hearings have
been included in the EIA.
ALTERNATIVE ANALYSIS
The impact assessments and use-conflict criteria were divided into two groups, those related to
the construction activities during the project and those related to the subsequent operations at the
rehabilitated port entrance. The evaluation of each alternative included the consideration of all
possible detrimental, mitigatable, or beneficial impacts that could result from implementation of
the altematives. The following information summarises the pros and cons resulting from this
analysis.
H7371   Draft Final Environrmental Impact Assessment    3                  Septetber 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                              HARRIS
Major positive effects are expected in relation to navigational conditions and safety, and the
related reduction of oil spill risks. The new breakwaters will also have a small positive effect on
fisheries and aquatic life in the project area. The project is expected to result in higher future
maintenance costs and will have a negative effect on water quality in the Baltic Sea if
contaminated sediments are dumped at the offshore disposal site.
During construction several detrimental effects are to be expected. However, as all of these
effects are related to the construction and dredging activities they are all of a temporary nature.
This means they will stop once the project is finished. Included in these temporary effects are
detrimental effects on water quality, aquatic life, especially if contaminated sediments are
dredged without precautions. Small detrimental effects are expected in relation to fisheries,
navigation (hindrance) and urban land traffic. Mitigating measures to minimise the indicated
negative effects are presented in this report.
Summary review of expected effects for the three alternatives.
+: slight increase; ++: increase; +++ considerable increase; 0: neutral;
- slight decrease or reduction; - -: decrease or reduction; - - -: considerable decrease or
reduction
Equal to Zero Alternative                                         *e-- - -
Effects During Operations           Zero         Proposed        Proposed Project
(permanent effects)          Alternative       Project         Including CDF
Hydraulics                              O            +/ -                + 10-
Wave climate inside Port
Reduction short wave height         0
Reduction long wave height          0
Navigational conditions and safety      0
t Environmental risks                    O
Coastline erosion /development          0        l         O
Maintenance dredging
Salt intrusion in the lagoon            0          up to +/- 4%        up to +/- 4%
Fisheries
Aquatic life in Baltic Sea              0           _      _
Aquatic life in Lagoon            O_ ___                O        _ _
Water quality at disposal site         O_       _                _
Effects During Construction
(temporary effects)
Water quality                           O
Aquatic life                            O
Fisheries                                 0
Navigation and Port operations          O
Urban land traffic                                  _
Recreation                              O              +1-
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4                            September 1999
Executive Summary



Kbaipeda Port Entrarne Rehabiltation Project                                      HARRIS
PREFERED ALTERNATIVE
Alternative 3 has been selected as the so-called Preferred Attemative and was presented
accordingly to the Port Authorities in the draft EIA (September 1998). This altemative was found
lo have the same benefits as altemative 2, but the least and less severe negative impacts, while
still meeting the goal of the Client, e.g. a safer and more economic port.
ENCROACHEMENT ON PREFERRED ALTERNATIVE AND PROPOSED ACTION
lDuring the execution of the EIA study for the project, upon KSSA's initiative the area to be
dredged under this project was split into two tenders. One tender organised by Frederic R. Harris
(FRH) and financed by a World Bank loan, covering the (re)construction of the breakwaters and
the dredging (practically) from the existing coastline seawards. The other tender organised by the
Lithuanian Energy Institute (LEI) and financed by KSSA itself, covering the dredging from the
existing coastline land inwards. The dredging area under the FRH tender comprises only clean
sediments, whereas practically all surface sediments under the LEI tender can be classified as
contaminated under the Lithuanian classification system.
In view of the fact that a CDF had not yet been implemented, the KSSA requested permission
from the Lithuanian Ministry of the Environment to be allowed to dump the contaminated
sediments present in the dredging area covered under the LEI tender at sea. Although not in line
with the concept of environmental protection, or the intemational attempts to improve the water
quality of the Baltic Sea - measures to improve the water quality in and around Klaipeda are listed
as priority actions under the Baltic Sea Programme approved by the regional Ministers of
Environment at Helsinki (April 1992) and Gdansk (March 1993) - this permission was granted and
early 1999 dredging in the LEI area started. During the summer of 1999 practically all
contaminated and clean sediments had been dredged in the LEI dredging area and had been
dumped offshore.
Consequently, with no contaminated sediments present in the dredging area covered under the
FRH tender and all the contaminated sediments already removed from the LEI dredging area, the
so-called preferred altemative as developed in this EIA appears no longer relevant for this
project.
However, there is still a considerable volume of contaminated sediments left in various parts of
the Klaipeda port. Lithuanian experts estimate the present volume of class 3 and 4 sediments at
approximately 200,000 - 400,000 m3. Undoubtedly, more contaminated sediments will be formed
(deposited) in enclosed port areas in the years ahead. This clearly demonstrates that the
implementation of a CDF is still very relevant. According the Minister of Transport and
Communications, Mr. R. Didziokas, the project for storage of contaminated sediments will form
part of the Public Investment programme and the Tina programme as a separate project. The
implementation of this project is anticipated in 2001.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Based on the findings of the EIA it is clear that the execution of the Klaipeda Port Entrance
Rehabilitation Project as funded by the World Bank, will influence a variety of environmental
aspects. Therefore an Environmental Management Program (EMP) has been developed, which
contains the evaluation of the most significant environmental effects, defines adequate measures
to mitigate them, and establishes a monitoring program to measure and control both the impacts
and the effectiveness of the mitigating measures. The general objectives of the EMP are:
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessmentt    5                   Septenter 1999
Execubve Summary



Kia;peda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                     HARRIS
1. to ensure compliance with all pertinent environmental legislation
2. to ensure environmental-friendly practices in relation to dredging and disposal works
3. to give priority to preventive measures in preference to corrective measures
4. to promote two-way communication with the local communities
Additional works directly related to this project have been identified as well. These works, which
are summarised at the end of this executive summary, comprise:
* The set-up of a nautical and environmental database system for storage and retrieval of
relevant data and information for better planning of future port development projects.
* A remediation study in relation to the contaminated sediment problems of the Port.
* The development of a CDF for storage of contaminated sediments.
With respect to the EMP it is to be noted that several aspects of the works are still unclear, e.g.
the equipment and working methods of the selected contractor, the source and transport of the
breakwater construction materials, etc. Consequently, the EMP presented is to be considered a
DRAFT version, which is to be elaborated when the selected contractor has made relevant details
available.
On the basis of the information provided in the EIA (section 1 to 7), a matrix of the environmental
aspects has been prepared, which summarizes possible relevant effects on the natural and social
environment. This matrix has been used to facilitate the definition of the mitigating measures and
the development of the monitoring program.
-MITIGATING MEASURES
Environmental Impact Assessment studies are designed to identify environmental problems,
which may be caused by a development project, and to determine the magnitude of the effects on
the environment. Through this process, design and operational changes can be introduced in the
detailed design phase of the project, thereby minimizing any adverse effects of the development.
During the past five years the independent Environmental Impact Assessment Committee in the
Netherlands noted, that less and less mitigating measures were required after the EIA had been
completed. The pure fact that it is known to the project developers that an EIA will have to be
made, automatically resulted in more environmental friendly project proposals. Just like technical
and economical aspects are taken into consideration during the initial drafting of the project, so
are environmental aspects.
This is also true for the Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation project. The design of both the
entrance channel and the new breakwaters was oriented towards providing better protection
against waves and improvement of the navigational and safety conditions. This by itself strongly
reduces the risks of oil spills and is to be noted as a major benefit for the environment. With the
new layout (and' other safety measures taken) the port entrance design will comply with
intemational safety standards.
The beneficial usage of dredged sand for beach or near shore replenishment was also based on
environmental considerations, i.e. preventing further coastal erosion. This will be the first time
dredged sediments will be beneficially used in Lithuania.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6                    September 1999
Executive Summary



KJaipeda Port Entrance Rehabiitaton Project                                        HARRIS
Nevertheless, for some aspects of the project mitigating measures have been identified to
prevent or reduce possible detrimental effects. Two measures are related to the operational
phase (consequences) of the project, whereas the remaining measures are related to the
acnstruction phase of the works.
A: MITIGATING MEASURES RELATED TO THE OPERATIONAL PHASE OF THE PROJECT
Set-up of an Automated Database System
Future maintenance dredging costs are expected to increase as more sedimentation in the
navigational channel is anticipated. In this respect it is important to note, that the removal of
sediments by dredging from the coastal zone with disposal offshore has been identified as one of
the possible causes of coastal erosion along the Klaipeda coastal area. To facilitate the planning
of beneficial usage of the sediments originating from maintenance dredging works (e.g. relocating
the sediments at appropriate locations within the coastal zone, beach replenishment, etc.), a
database system is to be set up. Information regarding the locations, types, quality and quantities
of the sediments to be dredged are stored in the database for future analyses. With sediment
characteristics and quantities known in advance (proven records), beneficial usage can be better
planned. This database system should be easy accessible and PC based. In addition to storage
of the sediment characteristics of maintenance projects, the database can also be used to store
other soil/sediment-related information and other environmental relevant information. This would
facilitate future planning of development projects by the Port Authorities. More detailed
information regarding the development of an 'Environmental and Nautical Database System' is
presented in the section on additional works at the end of this Executive Summary.
llntroduction of Alien Species
Trhe increase in size and number of ships entering the port will result in increased risk of alien
species invasion. To mitigate this effect, which is associated with ballast water, appropriate
imeasures as indicated in the IMO guidelines should be taken by the Port Authorities.
B: MITIGATING MEASURES RELATED TO THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE OF THE PROJECT
During the construction phase some temporary negative effects are foreseen. For these effects
the following mitigating measures are developed:
Protection of Fish Migration Routes and Spawning Areas
The Lithuanian Ministry of the Environment has already to some degree regulated dredging
operations, which might interfere with fish migration. These regulations are known as "Order No
67r and are called 'On the assessment of the effects of Klaipeda port dredging works on
fisheries" (included as appendix B to this report). These regulations comprise both strong and
very weak points. Strong points are that dredging is only allowed during fish spawning migration
in case of 'urgent necessity". Secondly, the dredging contractor is to provide information
regarding the planned dredging works and the measures taken to reduce the negative effects on
fish migration. In case of dredging during the fish spawning migration periods the dredging
contractor is to pay a fee for possible damage caused. Very weak points are that the fees are so
low that they will not put any restriction on dredging from a financial point of view. Secondly, in
the course of the dredging works the port must carry out a monitoring investigation of migration
intensity and the effects of dredging on migrating fish. Assessment of the latter is believed to be
practically impossible, as there are too many other parameters besides dredging that might affect
fish migration (natural variability of currents, flow directions, discharge of waste water, spills,
shipping, other port related activities, etc.). Thirdly, the regulations do not in any way protect the
spawning areas on the existing breakwaters.
In view of the above, the dredging contractor should plan the dredging works outside the fish
spawning migration periods to the maximum extent possible. Besides, the Contractor is to take
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    7                     Septenber 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitaton Proect                                        HARRIS
protective measures for the breakwater spawning areas (to prevent smothering by resettling
sediments), if and when required.
As less intense fish migrations across the Klaipeda Strait take place throughout the year,
dredging and the resulting increased ievels of resuspended sediments are likely to affect fish
migration in any period of the year. To mitigate these effects special attention should be paid to
predicting, monitoring and minimizing turbidity generation during the dredging operations.
Note: With practically all the contaminated sediments removed from the study area and no
contaminated sediments found present in the remaining World bank dredging area, the, mitigating
measures for dredging and disposal of contaminated sediments (as given below) are considered
no longer relevant for the dredging works forming part of the World Bank project. However, as
there is still a considerable volume of contaminated sediments left in various parts of the KJaipeda
port, the implementation of a CDF is still very relevant, as is an adapted dredging methodology in
these areas. More detailed information regarding the present situation on contaminated
sediments, the need to carry out a remediation study and the development of a CDF is presented
in the section on additional works at the end of this Executive Summary.
Dredging Clean and Contaminated Sediments
The lack of differentiation between dredging clean and contaminated sediments will result in
negative effects on water quality (resuspension and dispersion of contaminated sediments and
release of contaminants to the water column), aquatic life and fisheries. Besides, offshore open
water disposal of contaminated sediments will not only have a temporary and local negative effect
on water quality (during disposal), but also a more permanent and more widespread negative
effecL The contaminated sediments will be dispersed over a wide area (lithodynamically active
zone) and will act as a source of pollution.
The effects in the dredging areas can be mitigated by removing the contaminated sediments
separately from the clean sediments in a manner appropriate for the removal of contaminated
sediments (high accuracy dredging, no or minimal turbidity generation and minimal spillage). The
dredging contractor should prepare a method statement on the removal of the contaminated
sediments, in line with modem dredging practice.
Disposal of Contaminated Sediments
The effects in the disposal area can be mitigated by not allowing contaminated sediments (above
a certain level of contamination) to be dumped at sea. A confined disposal area should be
prepared for safe storage of these sediments. In addition, periodic testing should be carried out to
verify that the sediments, which are to be dumped at the offshore disposal site, do not contain
hazardous materials.
Offshore Disposal of Uncontaminated Dredged Sediments
At present four open water disposal areas for dredged sediments exist in the KJaipeda coastal
zone. Two of these sites have been closed, whereas the other two are still in operation. A fifth
disposal area is being studied. All these disposal sites will positively or negatively affect fisheries.
Disposal of glacial till sediments (including rocklike hard clay and boulders) is planned to take
place at disposal area 111, which is located more than 20 kilometres from the Port entrance. The
presence of mounds of rocklike clay and boulders make these areas less suitablel attractive for
certain types of fishing (bottom trawling). To minimize the damage to fisheries caused by disposal
of dredged sediments, disposal should be restricted to the designated disposal site. However, in
view of the long transport distance to this disposal site and the related costs, it is not unthinkable
that disposal of dredged sediments from barges also takes place at shorter distances from the
port entrance. These 'unplanned" and uncharted dumpings at various locations between the port
entrance and the official disposal site have already caused serious damage to the fishing industry
in general and fishing gear in particular. To ensure proper disposal of the dredged sediments, the
H7371   Draft Final Environmenftal Impact Assessment    B                     Septerrber 1999
Executive Summary



Ki3ipeda Poft Entrance Rehabilitabon Proect                                         HARR1S
barges should be equipped with a GPS (or better) positioning system and a PC-based electronic
monitoring system for continuous recording of the parameters time, position and load data.
Beach or Foreshore Replenishment
The sandy sediments dredged at the entrance channel will be beneficially used for prevention
and remediation of coastal erosion. However, special care should be taken in case the sandy
sAediments contain inclusions of clay-balls or silty sediments. In view of the recreational value of
the beach areas, these 'mixed cargoes" should not be used for beach or dune replenishment.
When the cargoes contain limited amounts of clay-balls or silty sediments, they can be used for
foreshore replenishment. In case too much silt is present in the cargo, the load should not be
used for replenishment purposes, but should be redirected to the offshore disposal site.
Flanning of Navigation During the Construction Works
To minimize the interference of stationary dredging equipment and the construction of the
bireakwaters with other maritime traffic two mitigating measures should be taken. Firstly, planning
of the works should be done in such a way that the interference with other maritime traffic is
already minimized. The contractor should provide a method statement in this respect. Secondly, a
program should be developed by the Port Authorities in advance of the works, to co-ordinate and
further reduce this interference. This program is to include aspects like advance waming to other
rnaritime traffic of closure of areas and presence of equipment, but also advance waming to the
contractor(s) of relevant maritime traffic, e.g. arrival or departure of oil tankers or other large
ships.
lindrance and Information to the Public
No matter how well planned, the construction of the new breakwaters, the repair works for the
existing breakwaters and the dredging and replenishment works will cause hindrance to the
people who are living, working or recreating at or near these sites. To mitigate this effect, ample
attention should be paid to informing the public about the project, its timing and its progress.
Planning of Road Transport During the Construction Works
Jn -case considerable road transport is foreseen as a consequence of the works (e.g. supply of
breakwater construction materials to the site and transport of sand to beach and/or dune areas),
more or less identical mitigating measures (see planning of navigation) should be taken with
respect to road transport
Pollution Caused by the Construction Activities
Pollution related to the construction activities can be caused by the equipment used, e.g.
dredgers, cranes, etc., and at the construction site(s), e.g. construction of concrete armour units,
storage areas for solid and liquid wastes, storage areas for stockpiling construction materials, etc.
To mitigate these forms of pollution, the contractor should be requested to supply an anti-pollution
method statement. In this statement measures taken to prevent or minimize pollution, including
spillage during bunkering and waste handling, should be indicated. The statement should also
include a clean-up plan to be carded out after completion of the works.
Note: In the contractual arrangements relating to the environmental and social management of
the project, the above mitigating measures will be included. (Conditions of Particular Application
of the contract between the KSSA and the Contractor).
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
The main objectives of the monitoring program can be described as:
* The works should comply with laws, rules, regulations and permit requirements. This is the
legal basis for the monitoring program.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Imnact Assessment    9                       Septenber 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Projed                                        HARRIS
The learning objective for future planning. This is the common sense basis for the monitoring
program.
With respect to the proposed project and in line with the mitigating measures, the monitoring
activities can be split into two sections, i.e. monitoring related to the operational phase of the new
Port entrance (design consequences) and monitoring related to the construction activities of the
project (operational control). The monitoring activities related to the operational phase are long
term montoring activities and fall under the responsibility of the Port Authorities. The monitoring
activities related to the construction activities are mainly control monitoring activities and are the
responsibility of the Contractor and/or the Port Authorities. Management and execution of the
monitoring activities are discussed in section "C" below.
A: MONITORING RELATED TO THE OPERATIONAL PHASE OF THE PROJECT
Permanent Reduction in Hydraulic Resistance in the Klaipeda Strait
Due to the dredging works in the sea access channel and the northem harbour area, the flow
conditions in the Klaipeda Strait will change. The expected permanent reduction of the hydraulic
resistance of the Strait will have a variety of secondary effects, like:
*  changes in flow characteristics and discharge rates
*  changes in sediment transport and sedimentation/erosion processes,
*  changes in salt intrusion into the lagoon,
*  water level changes in the lagoon
Based on computer modelling, it is expected that the present project may resuft in a 34% initial
increase in discharge and may lead to approximately 2 cm lower water levels in the lagoon during
-outflow periods. Based on the LEI dredging study (LEI 1997), it is clear that considerable
additional deepening dredging works are foreseen for the area from the present project up to
Alksnyne (more than 5 kilometres in the direction of the lagoon). If executed these dredging
works will lead to a much larger reduction in hydraulic resistance (up to 10%) and subsequently in
much stronger secondary effects. In order to be able to indicate the environmental effects of the
planned future works with more accuracy, the effects of the present project should be assessed
by monitoring several key characteristics before and after the present project. The key
characteristics should include: water flows in time, suspended sediment levels, salt intrusion
measurements and water level registrations. Several of these measurements are already
included in ongoing monitoring programs, but coordination may be required.
Coastline Development
A clear difference of opinion exists between scientists about the littoral drift in the study area.
Depending on the expert the execution of the project (and mainly the construction of the
breakwaters) may have a considerable or an insignificant effect on coastline development. To
make sure severe coastal erosion effects are noted in time to take preventive or mitigating
actions, the coastline both north and south of the access channel should be monitored.
The information should not only include details of the actual location of the coastline (sea-land
interface), but should also include changes in the dune/beach, as well as the near shore
topography. For this purpose both land and near shore topographic measurements are required
on a regular basis (extended hydrographic survey area). A part of these monitoring activities are
already included in ongoing monitoring programs.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental lmpactAssessment    10                       Septerrber 1999
Execubve Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitabon Project
KpPttc aatPeHARRIS
NMaintenance Dredging and Beneficial Usage of Dredged Sediments
Regular monitoring is required with respect to changes in sedimentation in the navigational
channel and the northern harbour part, to study the effects of the project on maintenance
dredging. The resulting information is to include information on the characteristics of the
sediments (type of sediment, grain size distribution and level of pollution) in view of possible
beneficial usage. The proposed monitoring activities are part of the normal maintenance dredging
related activities, which may need to be adjusted to fulfil the present and future needs.
The data resulting from all the above monitoring programs should be stored in a so-called
"INautical and Environmental database system' for analyses and future use. Background
information on the N&EDS is presented in the section on additional works at the end of this ES.
BE: MONITORING RELATED TO THE CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES OF THE PROJECT
Increased Levels of Suspended Sediments - Turbidity
Resuspension and dispersion of fine sediments will take place during dredging operations and
during placement of the construction materials. In view of fish migration and nearby spawning
areas monitoring of this aspect is required. The resulting information should indicate the scale of
resuspension for the various types of dredgers and auxiliary equipment, the various types of
sediment or construction materials, as well as the dispersion in time and place. Based on the
rnonitoring information additional mitigating measures may be developed if and when required.
Fish migration and spawning during the construction and dredging works are to be monitored as
well. The key parameters for fish migration should include: type of species, migration routes and
mnigration intensity. For fish spawning the key parameters should include: spawning locations,
timing and duration of spawning, period till hatching, spreading of fry, temperature and
suspended sediment levels.
Dredging Contaminated Sediments
In case contaminated sediments are to be dredged, the relevant characteristics of this type of
dredging should be monitored, e.g. accuracy of dredging, turbidity and spillage. The resulting
iinformation should indicate differences between the design level and the dredged ievel in
- centimetres.
Offshore Disposal
To ensure that dredged sediments are only dumped at the designated offshore disposal site,
control monitoring is required. For this purpose the equipment to be used for transporting the
sediments to the offshore disposal site should be equipped with:
*  a GPS-positioning system (or better)
*  a PC and related software to record: date, time, position, and load information (based on
depth gauges of the barge/transport-ship).
Beach or Foreshore Replenishment
To ensure that only sand and no silt and clay balls are placed on the beach, the dredging
contractor should carefully monitor the loading process during dredging. Each load should be
judged individually in order to assess if the load is suitable for beach replenishment, for near
shore replenishment or should go to the offshore disposal site.
Anti-Pollution Program
To ensure compliance with the anti-pollution program as is to be presented by the contractor,
control monitoring in the form of independent incidental audits during and after completion of the
works are required. Items to be included in the control monitoring are: fuel bunkering, waste
handling, storage facilities and construction facilities.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    11                     September 1999
Execuive Sumrnary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Proect                                       HARRIS
C: MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION OF THE MONITORING PROGRAMS
As the owner of the project, the Port Authorities are responsibie for monKtoring the design
consequences of the project (operational phase). These monitoring activities, which will cover a
period of at least 2 to 10 years after the works have been completed, indude:
Reduction of hydraulic resistance and related effects
* Changes in coastline development
* Changes in maintenance dredging volumes
As parts of these monitoring activities are already elements of ongoing monioring programs, it is
recommended that the KSSA will work out detailed monitoring programs for these items, in close
co-operation with the involved third parties.
In view of the KSSA's direct involvement in the project it is recommended that an independent
monitoring authority is appointed to oversee and conduct monitoring related to the construction
activities. The 'Construction Supervision Team (CST)" to be appointed for the execution of the
works, is proposed to be this independent monitoring agency for the following reasons:
* The CST has a cdear task and commitment to ensure the works are undertaken according the
contract and the EMP.
* The CST has a clear view on project planning as well as on the daily activities, which
facilitates planning of the monitoring activities.
* In view of its role, the CST has direct and open communication lines with both the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Contractor. This greatly facilitates quick response actions
when required in case of non-compliance with the contract or the EMP.
* The CST is directly involved in technical monitoring, like production processes and work
progress. Items that are directly related to the environmental monitoring program, like
turbidity control.
It is foreseen that for specific monitoring activities, like fish migration, fish spawning and other
field measurements, the CST will be assisted by experts from Lithuanian institutes, e.g. the
Klaipeda University, the Marine Research Centre, The Fishery Research Laboratory, the Institute
of Geography and the Vilnius University.
Based on the planning and the work methods of the contractor, and in line with the items
presented in this EMP, the CST is to work out a detailed works program for the environmental
monitoring activities. This works program is to include the monitoring topics, the monitoring
strategy, timing, frequency of measurements, people and equipment involved, as well as costs
involved. The monitoring works program is to be completed before the start of the execution of
the works.
A series of report requirements and communication channels have been identified under this
EMP:
* Weekly progress reports from the CST to the Project Implementation Unit
* Daily and weekly reporting on specific topics by involved third parties to the CST
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    12                     Sertember 1999
Executie Summary



Kiatpeda Port Entrance Retiabilitation Project                                                 HARRIS
*   Reporting between the Project Implementation Unit and the Funding Institution(s)
*   Communication and coordination on a regular basis between the Project implementation Unit
and the Ministry of the Environment
*   Communication and coordination on a daily basis between the CST and the Contractor(s)
The main players and reporting modes are outlined in the framework given below.
Organization schedule for monitoring activities.
.- . ......   . ......... . ....   _. ....
KSSA
Report                       _
Report weekly                       ois coordination
N.e .e contractorwilbedirectleCommunicaoon  aw     a                                      t h
working sites andequpme ton regular basis   a 
1  . Set-up of a database systemfordredgingandEnvironmental
2. A contaminated sedim t rn poManagement Planm
3. ThedeignanimplmentatonofCDFCommunication               sed
Report Daily/Weekly onCorian                                         . ..s-  -
.specific monitoring topicst-; - :
cont raftuFial Envrongmental rmlatinAssessmeeniomtaadscalaagent 13She ptember 1999
Exeutive Summarted
2. A9 cotmiae sediment remediato  prgram
Exctv Summar



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabiltation Project                                      H
ADDITIONAL WORKS 1: Database System for Nautical and Environmental Data
The data and information which had to be collected for this World Bank project, included a variety
of environmental and dredging related data, e.g. bottom topography, sediment composition, layer
thickness, levels of contamination, water quality characteristics, dredged areas, dredged volumes
and characteristics, hydrographic survey data, salinity data, levels of suspended sediments,
fishery data, etc.
Although quite some information was known to exist, it was sometimes very hard or even
impossible to get the data made available to the study team. Although several earlier studies
were carried out on behalf of the Port Authorities, most of the information and data was only
available from the original source (private company, public organization or University experts).
Besides the information was fragmented, incomplete and sometimes incompatible. Data on levels
of sediment contamination were considered "Classified" and only a part of the information could
be bought from the original sources; often after several months of requesting.
This situation is a clear disadvantage to the Port Authorities, being the manager of the entire
Klaipeda port area. Not only has it caused considerable delays to the World Bank project, but the
lack of a central knowledge base, or 'Nautical and Environmental Database System" (N&EDS)
also hampers proper planning of future development projects. With respect to the wish of
Lithuania to become part of the European Community, it is to be noted that the present situation
is not in line with the 1990 EC Directive on freedom of access to information on the environment.
It is clear that information availability can be improved by creating a N&EDS for the Port
Authorities. By storing and analysing nautical and environmental information, future works and
activities of the Port Authorities can be better planned, e.g. maintenance dredging, beneficial
usage of dredged sediments, contaminated sediment problems, coastal erosion problems, etc.
Besides, by making data and information free and easy accessible to third parties, the data and
information can also be used for other then their original purpose, e.g. coastal zone management,
ftshery research, education, in-house training, marketing, etc.
The N&EDS should be PC based and should include so-called GIS (Geographical Information
System) software. In this way data can be presented on standard maps and charts. The retrieval
of information and knowledge should be facilitated by use of simple metadata records accessible
through Intemet-based gateways.
Although developed with and for the Port Authorities, the N&EDS should also be promoted and
developed in close co-operation with other possible end-users, especially University experts. This
to ensure that the results from research projects, surveys and monitoring activities will find their
way into the database system as well.
The development of the N&EDS, including the purchase of hardware and software, the design of
the database structure, implementation, testing and training, reporting and extemal consultancy,
is estimated at approximately US$150,000.
ADDITIONAL WORKS 2: A Contaminated Sediment Remediation Program
A serious problem with respect to the contaminated sediment issue and consequently with
planning of the capacity of a CDF (Confined Disposal Facility) is the fact that there are no
accurate data available regarding the volumes of contaminated sediment present, the variations
in layer thickness, the toxicity of the contaminated sediments, dredgeability and effects of
dredging tolerances on dredged volumes, treatment options to minimize the volumes to be
stored, etc.
H7371   Dralt Final Environmental Impact Assessment   14                    September 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Poil Entrance Rehabiliaeon Project                                       HARRS
T'o fill this information gap, a remediation program is highly recommended. This program should
preferably be carried out as a joint effort by the World Bank study team and Lithuanian experts.
T'he total costs of the program, including limited field sampling and laboratory analyses are
estimated at approximately 200.000 US$.
Background Information on Presence of Contaminated Sediments
In the summer of 1998 the Geographical Institute in Vilnius (Lithuania) executed an extensive
investigation on the presence of contaminants throughout the port of Klaipeda. Sediment samples
were taken in 192 positions from the port entrance up to and including Malku Bay. The results of
the investigations have been reported separately (Geographical Institute, 1998) and have also
been used in a preliminary report to the implementation of a confined disposal facility (Association
of Lithuanian Hydrobiologists, 1999). The results of the investigations show that most of the
contaminated areas are related to the presence of silty sediments. The assessed quantities of
contaminated sediments are summarized in the table below.
Contaminated Sediment in Klaipeda Port
Class        % of Silty  In Situ Quantity   Area    Average Layer Thickness
Sediments       m3         (kM2)             (cm)
I  Clean              4              31,000   0.6                5
11  Little polluted   36            271,00    2.5              10
llI  Polluted         58            437,000   1.1                40
[IV  Highly polluted   2              13,000   0.05              25
Total             100             13,000   0.05              25
Source: Treatment site for contaminated sediments from the water territory of Klaipeda Port. (Association of
Lithuanian Hydrobiologists, 1999).
Looking at the distribution of these sediments (see figure) it is observed that most of the port's
fairway is contaminated with Class II sediment, whereas Class IlIl and Class IV contaminated
sediments are found along most of the quays and in inner harbours (Winter port, Malku bay).
Implicitly this means that any expansion or rehabilitation of the existing quay structures requiring
deepening in front of the quays, requires Class IlIl and/or Class IV sediments to be dredged.
According Lithuanian guidelines these materials cannot be dumped in open sea. The
aforementioned studies emphasize the findings of the EIA that for the future planning and
progress of the port a Confined Disposal Facility for environmentally safe storage of contaminated
sediments is urgently required.
The Lithuanian experts of the Association of Hydrobiologists indicate in their report that in some
cases Class IlIl sediments are overlying layers of Class II contaminated sediments. Theoretically it
is assessed that the actual quantity of Class IlIl contaminated sediments includes some 201,000
m3. However, taking into account the available dredging techniques it is concluded not possible to
dredge with the required accuracy. Hence, the total quantity of contaminated sediment required to
be stored or treated is estimated at 450,000 m3.
Consultants would like to indicate that present day's dredging techniques manage to maintain a
vertical accuracy of 0.10 m, when using advanced dredging equipment (with respect to horizontal
and vertical dredging control) and a trained crew. However, for the quantities indicated
Consultants assess it to be more realistic to apply a dredging tolerance of 0.20 m. Based on a
practical dredging tolerance of 20 cm, the amount of sediment dredged including the layer of
contaminated sediments would be around 550,000 m3. Including the Class IV sediments, this will
lead to a minimal 600,000 m3 storage volume in a Confined Disposal Facility.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    15                   September 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            HARRIS
Distribution of contaminated
sediments in the Klaipeda Port area
In addition to this amount of contaminated sediment to be stored to re-mediate the present day
contaminated sediment problems of the port, a reservation has to be made for the future
maintenance dredging in the port as well. Lithuanian experts assess the amount of silty
sediments to be deposited annually at 100,000 in3. Based on the area distribution of
contaminated silty sediments, it is assessed that initially 34,000 m3 of Class III/IV material will be
deposited each year. However, when sources of pollution will be re-mediated in due course this
amount of contaminated maintenance dredging will be reduced as well, for which argument
Consultants assume the annual contaminated maintenance dredging to be some 20,000 m3 for
the coming 10 years. Hence the required size of a Confined Disposal Facility to solve the
contaminated sediment problems for the port of Klaipeda in the coming 1 0 years is about 800,000
i3.
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~, .
A storage amount of 800,000 M3 is a considerable amount and reduction of this quantity may be
looked for in the following areas:
H-7371   Draft Final Environmental impact Assessment   1s                          September 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrarce Rehabilitation Project                                    HARRIS
*  Precisely identifying the layers of contaminated sediment. Presently some 200 samples have
been taken throughout the port to identify the contaminated sediment problem. Most of these
samples have been limited to the top 10 cm of the bottom. By precisely indicating (vertically
and horizontally) where Class I to Class IV contaminated sediment can be found, not only a
detailed estimate of the quantity of contaminated sediments can be obtained, but also a
detailed dredging plan can made where to dredge which layers to what depth.
*> By minimizing the inclusion of clean or lightly contaminated sediments (due to over-dredging
and dredging tolerances), the indicated amount will be reduced. However, increasing the
accuracy of dredging and reducing the dredging tolerances will put a larger demand on the
dredging capabilities (equipment and staff) of a dredging contractor, resulting in increased
dredging cost.
^  Considering the effect of bulking of sediments (increasing volume as a consequence of
handling) as filling of the CDF is expected to take place gradually during the years.
Settlement and compaction of the sediments inside the CDF will strongly reduce the bulking
effect caused by handling.
*  Separation of clean sand and contaminated sifts can reduce the quantity of contaminated
sediments to be used. Generally, with more than 50% sands in the dredged spoil, separation
of sand and silt will lead to a reduction of the quantity to be stored. However, with less than
50% sand in the dredged spoil, the quantity to be stored does not reduce due to the adverse
dewatering characteristics of the remaining silt-water mixture.
*  Treatment of the sediments in the form of cleaning (removal or destruction of contaminants)
may result in a very large reduction of the quantity of sediments to be stored.
It goes without saying that reduction of the total quantity of contaminated sediments to be stored
does have its price. Which options can be used will have to be studied in more detail as part of
the remediation program, which in itself can be included in the CDF study.
Overview of Finalized, Ongoing and Planned Capital and Maintenance Dredging Works
On additional problem in relation to proper planning of the required CDF capacity is the ongoing
removal of contaminated sediments from various parts of the port and its subsequent dumping at
the offshore disposal site. A summary of the finalized, ongoing and planned dredging works
inside the Port of Klaipeda is presented in section 8 of this EIA
It is noted that a considerable number of capital dredging works is planned for the period
from the present to 2003. Practically all of these projects will involve dredging of
contaminated sediments. The present plans to implement a CDF after all of these works
have been completed, is like putting the cart before the horse. It is therefore highly
recommended to expedite the implementation of a CDF and to postpone all dredging
works in contaminated areas till a CDF has become available.
ADDITIONAL WORKS 3: Confined Disposal Facility for Contaminated Sediments
Introduction
With part of the bottom sediments in Klaipeda port being too contaminated to be dumped
offshore, the dredging and disposal of these contaminated sediments forms a regularly recurring
problem. To solve this problem, this EIA describes a so-called 'Preferred Altemative", which
includes the storage of contaminated sediments in a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF).
H7371   Draft Final Environimental Impact Assessment   17                  September 1999
Executve Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrarce Rehabiltation Project                                     HARRfS
In this section some concepts of a Confined Disposal Facility to store contaminated sediments
from the Klaipeda port are being discussed. Two of these concepts have been developed by
Haskoning in 1995 and the Consultants within the present study have identified two other
concepts. For all concepts a first order cost
estimate for the implementation costs have been
provided. Recommendations for the further
design and construction of such CDF, including  SeaPAseCmFTY
detailed cost estimates for implementation, are
provided in the main text.                            O F
Locations                                  SPCmW  D
When deciding on the implementation of a CDF,   CCDF   O
an important issue to take into account is the
location of the CDF to be constructed. The
Haskoning study resulted in a preliminary design
and a preliminary environmental impact study for
two possible disposal sites: the Ship Cemetery
and the Drevema site:
The Ship Cemetery                          B-.c sl
The Ship Cemetery is located along the Klaipeda            )                 COF
Port fairway at approx. location 55°40.8' N,
21V08.1' E (see figure). With the depth of the
fairway locally being nearly 9 m, due to its
location the site is easily accessible for dredges           cua Ia    \
and barges. Further, the disposal site is located
approximately in the middle of the port and thus
in the heart of the contaminated sediment                 )
problem. The resulting short transport distances
-will be  beneficial for the  execution  of  Locations of CDF's (indicative)
-contaminated sediment dredging and disposal.
- The Drevema Site
The Drevema site is not as well defined in location as the Ship Cemetery, but has roughly been
indicated between 55°34' N and 55°36.5' N on the eastem shore of the Kursiu Lagoon (see
figure): This results in considerable sailing distances (order of 10 to 15 km) from the areas where
the contaminated sediments are to be dredged. Second disadvantage about the location is the
rather shallow depth in the Kursiu Lagoon.
In the execution of this EIA, Consultants identified two altematives for a CDF. One of these is
located behind the Sea Museum, taking advantage of an already present basin. The other exact
location for a CDF still has to be specified. Requirement for this last location would be that the
glacial till bottom layer should be quite near to the ground surface. According the soils
investigations carried out for the project, this layer can be found at a depth of approximately -12
m CD under the Curonian Spit. In short these two sites can be described as:
The Sea Museum Site
The Sea Museum site is located at approx. 55*43.2' N, 21°06.2' E (see figure). The site is located
close to the fairway through Klaipeda port and with the depth locally being nearly 12 m, easy
accessible for dredges and barges. The sailing distances to the locations with contaminated
sediment are in the order of 2.5 to 8.5 km.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental lmpact Assessment    18                   Septeber 1999
Executve Summary



Kbaipeda Port Entrance Rehabelitaton Proe                                         HARRS
T'he Curonian Spit Site
1The Curonian Spit site is not as well defined as the Sea Museum site, but is roughly proposed to
be located between the Ship Cemetery site and the Sea Museum site. This puts the site close to
the fairway with sufficient depth for dredges and barges. Further, also the sailing distances to the
clredge areas with contaminated sediments are short (order of 5 km). It is emphasized that in
proposing three potential locations of a CDF on the Curonian Spit, it has not been overlooked that
tihe Curonian Spit is a National Park. However, when it is considered that a CDF is essentially a
closed system from which contaminants are not supposed to leak, the proposals do have some
specific advantages:
11. Wth large scale infrastructural and urban developments not allowed in the National Park, it
will be very unlikely that the CDF will ever be in the way of any future developments, as it
might be when located near urban Klaipeda.
2. The long term after care of a CDF constructed in the National Park could fall under the
obligations of the organization maintaining the National Park. This organization, in itself
concemed with the care for nature, should understand the importance of the CDF and take
proper care of it.
:3. It being a NATIONAL park, a clear directive from the National Govemment (i.e. the Ministry of
Environment) can overrule the well-known Not-In-My-Backyard attitude to the implementation
to the CDF. Clearly, the Ministry of Environment has to be convinced of the advantages of
having the CDF on the Curonian Spit
4. Once filled, capped and completed, the CDF can be properly embedded in the natural
environment of the National Park.
IFinally, it is observed that at the Northem part of the Curonian Spit a lot of activities take place,
isuch as: presence of quays of ferry links, museums, houses, Coast Guard station. In view of this,
-it is not considered a loss for the park if a well functioning disposal site is created here.
Still, the above sites are identified as being potential sites. The feasibility of these sites has not
- lbeen demonstrated yet, let alone that approvals to construct a CDF at one (or more) of these
sites have been received. Prior to the design and construction of a CDF at any of these sites a
detailed feasibility study to the (final) location of the CDF will be required.
Storage Capacity
The storage capacity of the Ship Cemetery and the Sea Museum site have been assessed at:
*  Ship Cemetery:   85,000 m3 volume corresponding to 65,000 m3 in situ dredge sludge
*  Sea Museum:    60,000 m3 volume corresponding to 45,000 m3 in situ dredge sludge
In view of these relatively small capacities, these sites may be considered as temporary disposal
facilities. As final CDF's these sites might be attractive when the amounts of contaminated
sediment to be stored in the depots can be reduced. Some of these techniques are indicated in
the EIA, but in the following these have not been taken into account.
The storage capacity for the Drevema site and Curonian Spit site are much larger, as both sites
are supposedly to provide a long-term solution to the contaminated sediments problem of the port
of Klaipeda. The storage capacity for these sites have been assessed at:
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   19                    Septenber 1999
Executve Summary



Kbaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilhaton Project                                      HARRIS
*  Drevema Site:    500,000 m3 volume corresponding to 350,000 m3 in situ dredge sludge
*  Curonian Spit Site: in view of the uncertainties about the quantities of contaminated sediment
still present in Klaipeda Port, a CDF's with capacities ranging from
200,000 m3 to 800,000 m3 have been identified.
The construction/design concepts of the Confined Disposal Facilities at the aforementioned sites
are described in section 8 of this EIA.
Environmental Impact Assessment
Adopting that the isolating measures, after care and monitoring program for the CDF function
property, it is assessed that the impacts of the mere CDF to the environment will be minimal,
provided that efforts are made to integrate the CDF in its natural environment.
Implementation Costs
It is clear that the storage capacity of the CDF will strongly affect the costs of implementation. The
implementation costs calculated for the presented altematives vary from 1 million dollar for the
60,000 m3 depot to 9 million dollar for the 800,000 m3 depot
Conclusions and Recommendations
One of the main conclusions of this EIA is that the design and construction of a CDF is urgently
required if the port of Klaipeda is to carry out maintenance dredging and capital dredging inside
the port in accordance with national and intemational guidelines for the preservation of nature.
Based on the 1998 field investigations on contaminated sediments still present in the port,
Lithuanian experts estimate the amount of level IlIl and IV contaminated sediments inside the port
to be 215,000 m3 minimum up to 440,000 m3 maximum. The actual amount actually depends on
possibility to differentiate (vertically) during dredging operations between level 11 and level IlIl
contaminated sediments. Yearly 100,000 m3 of fresh silt will be deposited in the harbour. How
much of this 100,000 m3 of silt is contaminated is not quite clear, but may be in the order of
.20,000 m3 per year. When considering the storage of existing and anticipated contaminated
sediment for another 10 years to come, the storage capacity required may be as much as
800,000 i3. Methods to reduce the volume of contaminated sediments to be stored will have to
be studied as part the remediation study. Based on the present estimates, it will be clear that a
small CDF will not be sufficient. The capacity of both the Ship Cemetery Site and Sea Museum
site are insufficient to store all the contaminated materials present.
With the requirements for the implementation of a CDF (again) clearly demonstrated in this EIA
and the impact which a delay in the implementation may have on the development plans of the
Port of Klaipeda, it will be clear that a fast start up of the design and construction of a CDF is to
be promoted by all parties involved: KSSA, Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Environment
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    20                   Septeber 1999
Executve Summary



