KLAIPEDA STATE SEAPORT AUTHORITY
KLAIPEDA PORT ENTRANCE REHABILITATION PROJECT
DRAFT FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
SEPTEMBER 1999             E- 295
VOL. 2
Frederic R. Harris B. V. 
Engineers, Planners, Economists & Consultants  R
in association with:                                       H R I
EDCn- Environmental & Dredging Consultancy
Uostamiescio Projektas






Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                                                              HARRIS
DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LIST  OF S ECTION            S   ...................                                                                         - i
LIST OF APPENDICES ....................,.,.,,,,,,..                                                  ,,,, ,..                 ,          ...,,. ...  iii
LIST OF FIGURES.. ii
LIST OF TABLES ................ ..,.                                                                      ..,.,.,,                           iv
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1INTRODUCTION.,I-1
2    LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK ......................................                                                                  2-1
2.1        LITHUANIAN ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS                           ......................        ........................... 2-1
2.2        WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GUIDELINES ................................................. 2-4
2.3        COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND PUBLIC HEARINGS ......................                                ........................... 2-5
2.3.1 Notification to the public .,, 2-5
2.3.2      Public hearings ...................................           ......... ,                                        2-5
3    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT ......................................                                                                 3-1
3.1        GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT                                    ...................................... 3-2
3.1.1      Improvement of Klaipeda harbour entrance ..............................................                         3-2
3.1.2      Future options ..............................................                                                   3-3
3.2    METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION ............................................... 3-3
3.2.1      Dredging and disposal works .............................................. 3-3
3.2.2      Breakwater construction .............................................. 3-7
3.2.3 Wreck removal ....................                    ,            ,           ,          ,           .. 3-8
4    BASELINE DATA ON PRESENT SITUATION ...................................                                                                     4-1
4.1        GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE STUDY AREA                                  .. ................................... 4-1
4.1.1 Baltic Sea Coastal area .                                                                                            4-1
4.1.2 Klaipeda and its Port .4-3
4.1.3 Curonian lagoon .4-4
4.2  CLIMATE .....   , , ............ 4-4
4.2.1 Temperature and Precipitation .                                                                                      4-5
4.2.2 ' Wind ..........................                                                                                    4-5
4.2.3 Fog and Ice formation .4-6
4.3  HYDRAULICS ..............                                       ...                                   .,  4-7
4.3.1 Water levels and flows .                                                                                             4-7
4.3.2 Waves .                                                                                                             4-10
4.3.3   Coastal sediment transport ................................ 4-11
4.3.4      Sediment transport Curonian Lagoon - Baltic Sea .............................................. 4-13
4.4        GEOLOGY, TOPOGRAPHY AND SEDIMENT CHARACTERISTICS  ................................................. 4-14
4.4.1      Geological history ..........................                                              ..,,,,,.,.......... 4-14
4.4.2      Bed topography ....................4-15....,.  ...............,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,...........,,     4-15
4.4.3      Sediment characteristics ...............................,.,,,.,,,,,,... 4-15
4.5        WATER CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BALTIC SEA, KLAIPEDA STRAIT, CURONIAN LAGOON ....... 4-25
4.5.1      Water temperature ...............................4.-2..........................       ,        .,              4-25
4.5.2  Oxygen levels .....................                                                                                 4-26
4.5.3      Background turbidity levels ...............................               ,        .        ..................... 4-26
4.5.4  Salinity ...............,,,,,, ...........,,,,,.,.. 4-27
H7371        Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    i                                                                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                               HARRIS
4.5.5  Pollution ...........................                                                   4-28
4.6     ECOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS ............................ 4-29
4.6.1   Baltic  Sea  marine  ecology  .........................................                4-29
4.6.2   Curonian  lagoon  ecology ......................................... 4-35
4.6.3   Curonian Spit National Park ecology .........................................          4-38
4.7     SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE STUDY AREA .......................................... 4-41
4.7.1   Navigation and vessel traffic control ..............................................................     4-41
4.7.2   Maintenance dredging and disposal ..............................3.................................--.W
4.7.3   Environmental protection and coastal zone management ................................... 4-45
4.7.4   Reception facilities for ship generated waste ...................................................... 4-47
4.7.5   Spill contingency (oil pollution) planning and response equipment ...................... 4-48
4.7.6    Fisheries in coastal and harbour area and Curonian lagoon .4-49
4.7.7   Recreation and water sports ..........................,... 4-50
5   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT DURING OPERATION .5-1
5.1     IMPACT ON HYDRAULICS ................................................  5-1
5.2  IMPACT ON WAVE CLIMATE INSIDE HARBOUR AREA .5-2
5.3  IMPACT ON SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION PROCESSES .5-3
5.3.1 Impact of breakwater extension .5-5
5.3.2   Impact of deepening and widening the access channel .                                   5-5
5.4  IMPACT ON SALT INTRUSION INTO THE LAGOON .                                                          5-6
5.5  IMPACT ON NAVIGATIONAL CONDITIONS .                                                                 5-7
5.6  IMPACT ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS ., ..                                                               5-11
5.7  IMPACT ON AQUATIC LIFE ....................                                                        5-11
5.8 IMPACT ON FISHERIES .5-12
6   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT DURING CONSTRUCTION .6-1
6.1     IMPACT OF DREDGING AND DISPOSAL ON WATER QUALITY    .................................................. 6-1
6.1.1  Background Information on Turbidity .6-2
6.1.2    Evaluation of the dredging induced resuspension of sediments .6-5
6.1.3   Evaluation of the disposal induced resuspension of sediments .6-6
6.2     IMPACT OF CONSTRUCTION OF BREAKWATERS ON WATER QUALITY .......................................... 6-7
6.3     IMPACT ON AQUATIC LIFE .........     ....................... ........,.,,.,,.. 6-7
6.4 IMPACT ON FISHERIES .6-9
6.5     IMPACT OF DREDGING ON THE STABILITY OF THE EXISITING BREAKWATERS .6-11
6.6  IMPACT ON NAVIGATION AND PORT OPERATIONS .6-12
6.7     IMPACT OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES ON URBAN LAND TRAFFIC .6-12
6.8     IMPACT ON RECREATION ...............................,.    .    ,    .    .     ,    ,    . .. 6-12
6.9  POLLUTION DURING CONSTRUCTION                       ..6-13
7 ANALYSES OF ALTERNATIVES .7-1
7.1     OPTIONS FOR BENEFICIAL USE OF DREDGED SEDIMENTS                  ................................... 7-1
7.2     OPTIONS FOR CONTAMINATED SEDIMENTS ..........................................   ,  7-2
7.3     EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVES .................................. .. 7-4
7.3.1   Review of evaluation results .....                                .......... 7-4
7.3.2    Preferred alternative ..................................,,,,,,,,,,.,,,........,.. 7-8
7.4      ENCROACHMENT ON PROPOSED ACTION AND PREFERRED ALTERNATIVE .                      .              7-8
8 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM .8-1
8.1  BACKGROUND ..............................,..  , .                                          ........ 8-1
8.2   ANTICIPATED ADVERSE EFFECTS AND PROPOSED MEASURES ...                         ..8-1
8.3     MITIGATING MEASURES ...........................,...................... I .,                     8-5
8.3.1   Mitigating measures related to the operational phase of the project .           ,      . 8-5
8.3.2   Mitigating measures related to the construction phase of the project..                  8-6
8.4      ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING ....................................     ,     ,      ,     .. 8-9
8.4.1   Monitoring related to the operational phase of the project ..................................... 8-9
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   ii                                           September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                                                         HARRm  S
8.4.2     Monitoring related to the construction phase of the project .................................. 8-10
8.4.3    Management and execution of the monitoring programs ............... --- .                       .............. 8-11
8.5   ADDITIONAL WORKS ..................                                                                                       8-1 3
8.5.1     Database system  for nautical and environmental data    . ................ ---- ..... 8-13
8.5.2    A contaminated sediment remediation program ...............................................  8-14
8.5.3    Confined disposal facility for contaminated sediments ...  .................................... 8-19
H7371        Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    iii                                                            September 1999






Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                               HARRIS
LIST OF APPENICES
A. Law on environmental impact assessment and the related governmental resolutions
B. Lithuanian dredging related rules
C. List of contributors
D. List of participants of public hearings and community meetings
F  Core descriptions of sediment samples taken by Consultants
F. Physical and chemical analyses results of samples taken by Consultants
G. Toxic analyses results of samples taken by Consultants
J
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment  iv                             September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          HARRIS
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 3-1    The basic layout of the works
Figure 3-2    Dredging area sections
Figure 3-3    Dredging areas by LEI
Figure 3-4    A typical cross-section of the new breakwaters
Figure 4-1    Area map
Figure 4-2a    Coastal areas south and north the breakwaters (a)
Figure 4-2b    Coastal areas south and north the breakwaters (b)
Figure 4-3    Klaipeda Port areas
Figure 4-4    River water inflow into the Curonian Lagoon (long term average situation with no
wind)
Figure 4-5    Coastline development from 1835-1990 near Klaipeda Strait (according to Knaps,
1968; Zilinskas, 1990)
Figure 4-6    Average data of sediment fluxes intensity in 1995-1997 alongside the Klaipeda
Strait
Figure 4-7    Types of surface sediments in the approaches to the Klaipeda port entrance
channel
Figure 4-8    Types of surface sediments in the entrance channel and northern part of the port
area
Figure 4-9    Sampling locations of the 1999 sediment investigations
Figure 4-10    Sampling locations 54 samples of LEI study
Figure 4-11    River water outflow to the Baltic Sea
Figure 4-12    Underwater biotops near Lithuanian Baltic coast
Figure 4-13    Underwater survey of the Klaipeda port breakwaters
Figure 4-14a   Spawning of the Baltic herring Clupea harrengus membras at the concrete blocks
of the Klaipeda port southern breakwater,300 m from the beach (April, 1995)
Figure 4-14b   Spawning of the Baltic herring Clupea harrengus membras at the concrete blocks
of the Klaipeda port southern breakwater, head part: location of dense layer of
roe (April 26, 1995)
Figure 4-15a   Curonian lagoon zonation and distribution of bottom macrofauna communities
Figure 4-15b   Klaipeda Strait area with diverse hard/morenic (Balanus improvisus) to soft and
muddy bottom (Oligochaeta) communities. Local bays are temporally defaunated
Figure 4-16    Main communities' distribution in the Curonian spit
Figure 4-17    Old, operational and planned disposal site for dredged materials from  the
Klaipeda Port
Figure 5-1    Existing characteristics of the port Entrance
Figure 5-2    Principle characteristics new port entrance design
Figure 6-1    Particle size and settling time
Figure 6-2    Sediment transport near South breakwater head
Figure 8-1    Organisational schedule for monitoring activities
Figure 8-2    Distribution of contaminated sediments in the Klaipeda Port area
Figure 8-3    Locations of CDF's (indicative)
Figure 8-4    Existing basin behind the Sea Museum
Figure 8-5    Lay-out and cross section of Curonian Spit CDF (typical)_
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment  v                          September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HAmRIS
LIST OF TABLES
Table 2-1     The governmental institutions and organisations including their authorisation and
function in the EIA process
Table 3-1     Characteristics of selected dredging areas, according to LEI (Kaunas, 1998)
Table 3-2     Characteristics of selected dredging areas, according to Consultants
Table 4-1     Average temperate and precipitation data in the study area
Table 4-2     Probability that winds occur in the given speed and direction class at Klaipeda
Met Station (long term); Based on period:1947 - 1988
Table 4-3     Average number of foggy days in Klaipeda
Table 4-4     Probability of minimum and maximum water levels in Klaipeda Strait
Table 4-5     Current velocities in the port
Table 4-6     Relationship between current, discharge and water level difference
Table 4-7     Extreme deep-water wave height offshore Klaipeda
Table 4-8     Nearshore wave characteristics, return period = 50 years
Table 4-9     Average grain-size composition (%) of the bottom sediments prevailing in the
aquatory of the Klaipeda port
Table 4-10    Sediment classification system  for dredging and disposal purposes in the
Klaipeda region
Table 4-11    Sediment characteristics of bottom sediments in the World Bank dredging study
area
Table 4-12    Results of the toxicological testing of Klaipeda sediments
Table 4-13    Concentration of chemical ingredients in the surface (0-5 cm) of bottom
sediments in the Baltic Sea, nearshore (1997 May-June)
Table 4-14    Concentration of chemical ingredients in the surface layer (0-5 cm) of bottom
sediments in the entrance channel and northern part of the Klaipeda port area
(1997 May-June)
Table 4-15    Concentration of heavy metals and hydrocarbons (HC) in the bottom sediments
of the Klaipeda port aquatory (175 samples)
Table 4-16    Seasonal variation in water transparency, Seki disk depth
Table 4-17    Wave climate influence on water transparency
Table 4-18    Seasonal changes of suspended matter in the Klaipeda Strait during 1994-1996
Table 4-19-    Most abundant species and taxonomic groups of zooplankton in the Klaipeda
harbour area during 1995-1997
Table 4-20    Volumes dredged and related disposal sites since 1990
Table 4-21    The capacities of collectors for polluted and faecal water and garbage in the
Klaipeda Port area
Table 4-22    Equipment available at MRCC
Table 4-23    The structure of commercial catches in Coastal Zone
Table 5-1     Effect of dredging on hydraulic resistance of the Klaipeda Strait
Table 5-2     Effect of increased inflow and outflow through Klaipeda Strait on water levels in
the Lagoon
Table 5-3     Wave penetration coefficients for existing and proposed layout
Table 7-1     Summary review of expected effects for the three alternatives
Table 8-1     Contaminated sediments in Klaipeda Port
Table 8-2     Finalised capital and maintenance dredging contracts executed between 1
January 1995 to January 1999
Table 8-3     Capital and maintenance dredging contracts finalised in 1999 and ongoing
contracts
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment  vi                        September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                    HARRIS
Table 8-4       Capital dredging projects from  present to 31 December 2003, depending on
implementation of investment program for Klaipeda Port, as approved by
Lithuanian Government
Table 8-5      Implementation costs of CDF options
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment  vii                                 September 1 999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARRIS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Klaipeda Harbour entrance will be improved by the construction of two new breakwaters to
extent the existing breakwaters, by the rehabilitation of the two existing breakwaters and by
deepening and widening the entrance channel and a part of the harbour basin to - 14 meters.
The sediments to be dredged under this project     various htpes of soils of which a nart
is contaminated. Of these sediments, all clean sands will be beneficially used. The
contaminated sediments would need to be dredged separately and stored in a confined disposal
facility. However, no such facility yet exists. The remaining clean glacial till and silty sediments
will be dumped at a designated disposal site about 20 kilometres offshore from Klaipeda. The
project and its impacts on the environment are extensively described in the Environment Impact
Assessment Report of the project, the executive summary of which is presented below.
BACKGROUND
When in 1991 the independence of Lithuania was restored, the idea of creating a united,
modern and universal seaport was promoted. Since that date, the structure of Klaipeda Port has
been fundamentally reorganised and the port activities are now legislated by the Klaipeda Port
Act. The Klaipeda State Seaport Authority (KSSA) is in charge of the functioning of the Port and
is responsible for maintenance, reconstruction and modernisation of the Port infrastructure,
while separate independent terminals are managing operations.
In 1997, as part of "the Programme of Construction and reconstruction of infrastructure objects
of Klaipeda State Seaport up to the year 2000", some 25 million USD were invested in the port
infrastructure. The navigational channel was deepened and at present ships with draft of up to
10.5 m can enter the Port.
In 1996, as part of the overall plan and with the aim of increasing safety and reducing downtime
the KSSA requested Delft Hydraulics of the Netherlands to carry out a study on alternative
improvements to the sea entrance. The study included the evaluation of the design layouts on
the basis of a series of full mission simulations by the Maritime Simulation Centre of the
Netherlands in co-operation with Delft Hydraulics. This feasibility study provided the basis for a
new design, which included i.a. the construction of new breakwaters, deepening and widening
of the access channel and re-alignment of the axis of the inner harbour channel.
In 1997, KSSA requested the Lithuanian Energy Institute to carry out a technical study on the
proposed dredging works. This study provided the basis for the design of the dredging works
and the potential impact on the environment. It also addressed the impact of the dredging works
on the stability of the existing breakwaters.
In 1998, the KSSA commissioned Frederic R. Harris in association with EDC - Environmental &
Dredging Consultancy and Uostamiescio projektas, to prepare the final design for the Klaipeda
Port Entrance rehabilitation, including the final design of the new breakwaters and the dredging
works, as well as this Environmental Impact Assessment.
The main purpose of the port entrance rehabilitation is to reduce wave penetration into the port
and give larger vessels improved and safe access to the port. The project is co-ordinated by
World Bank. The design works are financed by a grant from Netherlands and Japanese
Governments.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   1                        September 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARRIS
NEED FOR REHABILITATION
The Port of Klaipeda is the main port of Lithuania. It is located on the south-east coast of the
Baltic Sea at the entrance of the Curonian lagoon. Particularly during the winter months, under
rough weather conditions, navigation through the entrance channel is dangerous and the deep
water berths at the oil port and the Klasco Port are unusable.
in the recent past a number of accidents occurred with shins runnina out of control at the
entrance of Klaipeda Port. Over the last 15 years four major accidents occurred. In two of these
cases the ship was wrecked and in one case there was major damage to a quay and cranes.
One of the accidents involved a tanker and resulted in a large oil spill. Taking the traffic volume
into consideration four major accidents in such a short period is clearly too much.
Especially entering or departing of loaded vessels of 20,000 DWT and more, compose a source
of potential danger. These ships must follow the relatively narrow channel and negotiate an
abrupt 230 bend, not wider than the channel itself and located directly at the entrance. When
inbound this leads to relatively high speeds in order to be able to compensate for wind, waves
and current while sailing within the channel limits. Slowing down or stopping occurs relatively
close to the oil terminals.
Under severe weather conditions the length of the breakwaters provides insufficient protection
against waves to the tugs to allow them to assist these vessels should assistance be required.
If tankers must leave the oil terminals under emergency conditions, only a relatively small
distance is available to accelerate to a sufficiently high speed and an adequate course to depart
safely from the sheltered harbour area.
From the above it can be concluded that in its present state the nautical safety of the port is
below any international standard. In addition it is to be noted that the harbour's breakwaters
(especially the Southern one) have sustained damage during recent storms and possible further
damage would enhance the problems just mentioned.
ALTERNATIVES EVALUATED UNDER THIS EIA
Three alternatives were considered under this EIA to address the need for rehabilitation.
Alternative 1: No-Action
In this alternative the present situation will remain unchanged. The proposed project will not be
executed, which means no dredging and construction activities will be carried out. This
alternative is taken as the "neutral" reference for comparison of the other two alternatives.
Alternative 2: The proposed (original) project
This alternative includes the construction of two new breakwaters and dredging of
approximately 2 million m3 of sand, silt and glacial till sediments. In this project alternative, all
dredged sands (from the outer entrance channel) will be beneficially used for nearshore or
beach replenishment. All silty sediments as well as all the glacial till sediments will be disposed
off at the designated offshore disposal site. In this alternative all non sand sediments will be
dredged as one volume, which means that no differentiation will be made between clean and
contaminated sediments and between silty sand and glacial till.
Alternative 3: The proposed project plus confined disposal facility
This alternative is the same as the proposed project, but with some changes in the execution of
the dredging works. In this alternative the contaminated sediments will be dredged separately
from the clean sediments and subsequently stored in a confined disposal facility (CDF). With
respect to the CDF it is to be noted that the feasibility, the design characteristics and the
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2                        September 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARIS
location for implementation are still to be worked out. Some initial studies have been carried in
this respect.
Dredging of the contaminated sediments will be done in line with modern practice of removing
contaminated sediments, i.e. with high dredging accuracy, minimal turbidity and resuspension of
contaminated sediments and minimal spill.
PROPOSED ACTION
Each alternative was evaluated on a number of criteria both for the construction period and the
subsequent operational phase, and compliance with international environmental regulations.
Although the proposed project (alternative 2) already has a significant positive environmental
impact by reducing navigation hazards and consequently oil pollution risks at the Klaipeda port,
the planned offshore disposal of contaminated sediments is considered to be a violation of
international environmental agreements.
Consequently, alternative 3 has been selected as the Preferred alternative and Proposed
Action. This alternative will require the implementation of a CDF. The CDF, which can be
constructed from uncontaminated dredged materials (Glacial till), should be designed to solve
not only the contaminated sediment problem from this project, but also to provide a solution for
other contaminated sediment problems elsewhere in the port areas. Details on contaminated
sediments elsewhere in the port are given in the main text.
Environmental information used to produce this document results from numerous studies and
field surveys by several agencies and investigators working in the study area over the past
several years. Especially the contributions of the experts of the Klaipeda University were
extremely useful. The summary of the data and interpretations presented are a synthesis of all
available information found to be recent, accurate, and applicable to the evaluations.
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
An opportunity to review the draft version of the EIA (in the Lithuanian language) was
announced twice in the local Klaipeda newspaper. Public response was limited and the Port
Authorities received no formal comments on the EIA by December 31, 1998.
In December 1998, copies of the draft EIA have been presented to the Lithuanian Ministry of the
Environment, the Klaipeda Municipality, the Klaipeda County Governor's Administration, the
Klaipeda public health centre of the Ministry of Health, the fire-fighting department of the
Ministry of Home Affairs, the Project Expertise Bureau, the KSSA and to representatives of the
World Bank, for review. By June 1999 only comments from the Worldbank representatives had
been received.
A technical public hearing was organised by the Port Authorities on May 11, 1999. The
discussions focussed on the costs of the breakwaters, the direct benefits of the works for
Lithuanian contractors and the width of the harbour opening.
A public hearing on the environmental aspects of the project and the resulting EIA was
organised by the Port Authorities on September 15, 1999. During the meeting serious concerns
were expressed by the participants in relation to the delay in implementing a Confined Disposal
Facility for safe storage of contaminated sediments and regarding the damage of offshore
dumping of dredged sediments on fisheries. The findings of the public hearings have been
included in the EIA.
ALTERNATIVE ANALYSIS
The impact assessments and use-conflict criteria were divided into two groups, those related to
the construction activities during the project and those related to the subsequent operations at
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   3                        September 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                           HARRIS
the rehabilitated port entrance. The evaluation of each alternative included the consideration of
all possible detrimental, mitigatable, or beneficial impacts that could result from implementation
of the alternatives. The following information summarises the pros and cons resulting from this
analysis.
Major positive effects are expected in relation to navigational conditions and safety, and the
related reduction of oil spill risks. The new breakwaters will also have a small positive effect on
fisheries and aquatic life in the proJiet area
The project is expected to result in higher future maintenance costs and will have a negative
effect on water quality in the Baltic Sea if contaminated sediments are dumped at the offshore
disposal site.
During construction several detrimental effects are to be expected. However, as all of these
effects are related to the construction and dredging activities they are all of a temporary nature.
This means they will stop once the project is finished. Included in these temporary effects are
detrimental effects on water quality, aquatic life, especially if contaminated sediments are
dredged without precautions. Small detrimental effects are expected in relation to fisheries,
navigation.(hindrance) and urban land traffic. Mitigating measures to minimise the indicated
negative effects are presented in this report.
Summary review of expected effects for the three alternatives.
+: slight increase; ++: increase; +++ considerable increase; 0: neutral;
- slight decrease or reduction; - -: decrease or reduction; - - -: considerable decrease or
reduction
equal to zero alternative               _                        .
I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I.=_ d1  
effects during operations            zero         Proposed       Proposed project
(permanent effects)               alternative      project        including CDF
Hydraulics                             0           +10/-               +/0/-
Wave climate inside Port
reduction short wave height
reduction long wave height         O
Navigational conditions and safety     0
Environmental risks                    0
Coastline erosion /development         O              O                  O
Maintenance dredging                   O
Salt intrusion in the lagoon           0         up to +/- 4%       up to +/- 4%
Fisheries                              O
Aquatic life in Baltic Sea             0
Aquatic lifein Lagoon                  0              0                  0
Water quality at disposal site  O        O
Effects during construction
(temporary effects)
Water quality                          O
Aquatic life                           O
Fisheries                              O
Navigation and Port operations   _
Urban land traffic                     0
Recreation                             O             +/-                 +/-
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4                          September 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARRIS
PREFERED ALTERNATIVE
Alternative 3 has been selected as the so-called Preferred Alternative and was presented
accordingly to the Port Authorities in the draft EIA (September 1998). This alternative was found
to have the same benefits as alternative 2, but the least and less severe negative impacts, while
still meeting the goal of the Client, e.g. a safer and more economic port.
ENCROACHEMENT ON PREFERRED ALTERNATIVE AND PROPOSED ACTION
During the execution of the EIA study for the project, upon KSSA's initiative the area to be
dredged under this project was split into two tenders. One tender organised by Frederic R. Harris
(FRH) and financed by a World Bank loan, covering the (re)construction of the breakwaters and
the dredging (practically) from the existing coastline seawards. The other tender organised by the
Lithuanian Energy Institute (LEI) and financed by KSSA itself, covering the dredging from the
existing coastline land inwards. The dredging area under the FRH tender comprises only clean
sediments, whereas practically all surface sediments under the LEI tender can be classified as
contaminated under the Lithuanian classification system.
In view of the fact that a CDF had not yet been implemented, the KSSA requested permission
from the Lithuanian Ministry of the Environment to be allowed to dump the contaminated
sediments present in the dredging area covered under the LEI tender at sea. Although not in line
with the concept of environmental protection, or the international attempts to improve the water
quality of the Baltic Sea - measures to improve the water quality in and around Klaipeda are listed
as priority actions under the Baltic Sea Programme approved by the regional Ministers of
Environment at Helsinki (April 1992) and Gdansk (March 1993) - this permission was granted and
early 1999 dredging in the LEI area started. During the summer of 1999 practically all
contaminated and clean sediments had been dredged in the LEI dredging area and had been
dumped offshore.
Consequently, with no contaminated sediments present in the dredging area covered under the
FRH tender and all the contaminated sediments already removed from the LEI dredging area, the
so-called preferred alternative as developed in this EIA appears no longer relevant for this
project.
However, there is still a considerable volume of contaminated sediments left in various parts of
the Klaipeda port. Lithuanian experts estimate the present volume of class 3 and 4 sediments at
approximately 200.000 m3. Undoubtedly, more contaminated sediments will be formed
(deposited) in enclosed port areas in the years ahead. This clearly demonstrates that the
implementation of a CDF is still very relevant.
According the Minister of Transport and Communications, Mr. R. Didziokas, the project for
storage of contaminated sediments will form part of the Public Investment programme and the
Tina programme as a separate project. The implementation of this project is anticipated in 2001.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
As the project will influence a variety of environmental and social aspects, an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) has been included in the EIA. This EMP contains a review of the
anticipated adverse effects, defines adequate measures to mitigate them, and establishes a
monitoring program to measure and control both the impacts and the effectiveness of the
mitigating measures.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5                        September 1999
Executive Summary



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                   HARRIS
Additional works directly related to the project have identified in the form of:
*  The set-up of a nautical and environmental database system for storage and retrieval of
relevant data and information for better planning of future development projects, including
dredging and disposal works.
*  A contaminated sediment remediation program.
*  The development of a CDF for storage of contaminated sediments.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6                                September 1999
Executive Summary



-- y   Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          HARRIS
1   INTRODUCTION
In May 1998 the Klaipeda State Seaport Authority commissioned Frederic R. Harris B.V. in
association with EDC - Environmental & Dredging Consultancy and Uostamiescio projektas, the
design of the Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation project. This design includes the preparation
of tender documents for the construction of two new breakwaters and the rehabiiitation of the
existing breakwaters, the dredging works for the deepening of the entrance channel and harbour
basin, the improvement of the mooring/fendering at the Oil and Klasco berths and the installation
of a wave/current measuring device near the harbour entrance to support the pilotage.
Although the proposed project should have a significant positive environmental impact by
reducing navigation hazards and consequently oil pollution risks at the Klaipeda Port, the
proposed project has been placed in environmental screening category "A", according World
Bank regulations. This in view of potential for serious environmental impacts associated with the
construction of the new breakwaters, the volume of the proposed dredging works (> 1,000,000 m3
of partly contaminated sediment), and the presence of fish spawning places and fish migrating
routes in the project area.
This report presents the results of the Environmental Impact Assessment, which was carried out
according the requirements of the World Bank's Operational Directive OP/BP 4.01. The content of
this report has been written in such a manner, that most can be read without specific knowledge
of the relevant fields of expertise.
This EIA was prepared in the period May 1998 to September 1999. Its contents is based on the
information available at that time.
The consultants acknowledge the co-operation they received from the Klaipeda State Seaport
Authorities, the Lighthouse and Hydrografical Service, specialists from the Baltic Eco Association
and from Mr. Pedro Taborga, Mr. Inesis Kiskis and Mr. Piotr Krzyzanowski from the World Bank.
Also they gratefully acknowledge the assistance they received from experts of the Klaipeda
University and Dr. Arturas Razinkovas and Dr. Sergej Olenin in particular, Dr. Kestutis Joksas of
the Lithuanian Institute of Geology, Prof. Brunonas Gailiusis of the Lithuanian Energy Institute and
Arturas Slauteris of Geoprojektas.
Drs. Ronald W. van Oostrum (EDC) was the principal environmental specialist responsible for the
preparation of this EIA. Ir. Cock van der Lem is the Harris project manager for this contract. Ir.
Rudy Broekens and Ir. Pieter Janssen were responsible for production of this report.
The report has been structured as follows:
In chapter 2 the legal and administrative framework is given. This section includes the relevant
environmental laws and regulations, as well as information on the cummunity involvement and
public hearings.
A description of the project is given in chapter 3. This chapter also describes the method of
construction of the new breakwaters as well as the possible dredging scenarios.
Chapter 4 deals with the baseline data on the present situation and is divided into seven sections
related to: general information on the study area, climate, hydraulics, geology, topography and
sediment characteristics, water characteristics, ecological characteristics and special features of
the study area.
The environmental impact of the project during operation is presented in chapter 5. A
differentiation is made between impacts on hydraulics, wave climate inside the port,
H7371   Draft Final Environmental impact Assessment   1-a                        September 1999



-- s   Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            HARRIS
sedimentation and erosion processes, salt intrusion into the lagoon, navigational conditions,
environmental risks, aquatic life and fisheries.
The environmental impact of the project during construction is presented in chapter 6. Here the
effects of the dredging and disposal activities, as well as the construction of the new breakwaters
are reviewed. A differentiation is made between impacts of dredging and disposal and breakwater
construction on water quality, aquatic life and fisheries. In addition the impact of dredginq on the
stability of the existing breakwaters, the impact on maritime and land traffic and the impact on
recreation is reviewed.
In chapter 7 options for beneficial use of the dredged sediments and options for an
environmentally sound approach to the problem of contaminated sediments are given. In addition
the environmental aspects of three alternative project policies (no action, proposed project, more
environmental friendly alternative) are reviewed and evaluated.
In chapter 8 the environmental management program (EMP) is presented. This EMP includes a
review of the most significant environmental effects, defines adequate measures to mitigate them,
and establishes a monitoring program to control both the impacts and the effectiveness of the
mitigating measures.
An executive summary is given at the beginning of this report.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   1-2                         September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         A
7                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARRIS
2   LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
International guidelines and national legislation enforce environmental protection in Lithuania.
Accordind to the governmental resolution No 456 of 12 May 1997, the proposed project belongs to
the category of economical activities and objects, which requires a comprehensive Environmental
Impact Assessment to be made. The following review summarises the laws and regulations
applicable to this specific project.
2.1    LITHUANIAN ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
LAW ON ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA OF 1992 AND AMENDMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTS TO THIS LAW OF 28 MAY 1996
This law states the functions of the Ministry of Environment, municipal institutions in the field of
environment protection, the obligations of governmental, management and control institutions
assuring the rights of citizens and public organisations (Article 8).
The economic activities are planned and executed following this and other laws, by-laws, legal
acts, programs for environment protection and environmental monitoring, general and master
plans and projects, evaluating the potential of environment protection of the Republic of Lithuania
(Chapter 15).
Legal and physical persons who are planning to start economic activities must make an
Environmental Impact Assessment according to the laws existing in Lithuania. This must be done
on their own account and the results must be handed for approval to a number of institutions
according to the list confirmed by the Government of Lithuania. Those institutions evaluate the
handed document about the possible impact on environment and according to their competence
give their conclusions or motivated review concerning the possibility of such activity. The review is
compulsory for the institution, which issues licences for economic activity (Article 15).
LAw ON ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF L1THUANIA ADOPTED ON AUGUST
15, 1996
This law regulates the environmental impact assessment and the relationship of the participants
of this process (Article 2).
According article 6, the participants of the environmental impact assessment process are:
1) Reievant parties of the environment impact assessment of a proposed activity, being:
Proponents of the proposed activity and organisations of physical planning; Ministry of
Environment; Ministry of Health; Fire-fighting department; County governor's institution; Municipal
institution (see Table 2-1).
2) Public (Society)
Resolutions of the Government of Lithuania and orders of the Ministry of Environment related to
this law include:
*  The Governmental Resolution No 456 of 12 May 1997 by the Government of the Republic of
Lithuania, which indicates the types of activities and objects where the comprehensive
environment impact assessment is to be made. These include ports (all cases) and dredging
of water territory (all cases).
*  The order No 170 of the Ministry of Environment of 18 September 1997. The order is fixed for
the documents for the planning of the territory, decisions and consequences and reports on
Environment Impact Assessment that are analysed in the Ministry of Environment. In this
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2-1                      September 1999



Kiaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
document there is sequence and terms/periods for the approvals of the report and
Environment Impact Assessment program, and distribution of functions of the services.
* The order No 49 of 19 March 1998 by the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of
Lithuania, which approves the regulations for the preparation of the reports and program for
the evaluation of Environment Impact Assessment.
* The Governmental Resolution No 1305 of 11 November 1996 of the Government of the
Republic of Lithuania, stating that the public is to be acquainted with the program according to
"Concerning the information of the public about the planned economic activity and order of
implementation of its proposals".
Table 2-1
The governmental institutions and organisations including their authorisation and function in the
EIA process
Name of organisation  Address        | Authorisations and functions
Ministry of Environment     Jak6to 4/9,Vilnius Confirms program for environment impact
assessment, reports, approves the
Technical Project, organises state
ecological expertise
Ministry of Environment     Birutes 16,      Issues the permission for dredging works
Klaipeda Env. Prot. Dept.   5800,Klaipeda    and dumping.
Klaipeda Municipality       Liep0 11,        Issues the summary of conditions for
5800,Klaipeda    project design works, approves the
program for impact on environment,
comprehensive report of assessment and
technical project.
Klaipeda County Governor's   Danes 17,      the same
Administration              5800,Klaipeda  _
Ministry of Health, Klaipeda    Liep0 17,   the same
public health centre        5800,Klaipeda
Ministry of Home Affairs Fire-  Trilapio 4,  the same
fighting department         5800, Klaipeda
State enterprise, Project   A.Vienuolio 6,    Make general and special expertise for the
Expertise                   2600,Vilnius     projects
The law foresees the following stages for the Environment Impact Assessment (Article 7):
* Initial environment impact assessment - when the documents for the planning of the territory
are prepared and detailed plans are prepared,
* Comprehensive environment impact assessment is to be made - when the technical project is
made.
The initial environment impact assessment is made according to the special conditions for the
project design issued by the subject for environment impact assessment.
Article 1 0 foresees, that state expertise for environment impact assessment is compulsory for all
types of economic activities and objects the list of which is confirmed by the decree No 873 of the
Government of Lithuania of 22 July 1996. This list includes constructions in the Baltic Sea and in
the Curonian Lagoon, seaports and harbours, quay-walls, waterways.
Article 11 foresees that state expertise for environment impact assessment is to be organised by
the Ministry of Environment.
Article 12 foresees the publicity of environment impact assessment. The public is to get
information and give proposals, remarks as well as claims. Municipalities organise the
participation of the society in the process. Public discussion is to be organised by the Employer on
his own account.
The text of the law on Environmental Impact Assessment and the related Governmental
Resolutions is given in Appendix A to this report.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2-2                        September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        9
HARRIS
LAW ON WATER TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA OF 1997
This law foresees that dredging and cleaning works of the bottom for navigational needs are to be
executed according to the regulations approved by the Ministry of Environment (Article 19).
THE LAW OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION OF 1997
This law foresees that it is necessary to apply the requirements of the marine environmental
protection from contaminated materials for the planned economic activity in the way that is set in
the Annex I of Helsinki Convention (Article 6).
The limitations for disposal of the dredged ground are not applied on condition that the disposal is
executed in inland or territorial waters with the permission of the Ministry of Environment (Article
28).
Article 48 foresees that the economic activity that might have negative impact on the marine
environment can be executed only by the order fixed by the laws on environment protection,
environment impact assessment for planned economic activities, i.e. when a positive decision
from the Ministry of Environment is received.
ADDITIONAL DREDGING RELATED RULES
In addition to these laws "The temporary rules for the dredging of water territory of Klaipeda Port,
entrance channel and dumping of the soil at sea" are valid, according the approved order No 54 of
the Ministry of Environment of 16 November 1994.
In the order No 67 of 17 April 1997 by the Minister of the Environment called "Concerning the
evaluation of loss made to fishery due to dredging works in the port", it is determined that the
dredging of water territory of the port during fish migration can be executed only when it is
extremely necessary and fixed conditions are to be fulfilled (from April 1 to May 31 and from
August 16 to October 31).
The text of both dredging related rules is included as Appendix B to this report.
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS
The Gdansk Convention
The Convention on Fishing and Conservation of the Living Resources in the Baltic Sea and the
Belts - the Gdansk Convention - was signed in September 1973 and entered into force in 1974.
The objectives of the Gdansk Convention are to achieve greater and closer co-operation between
the Parties in order to maintain the maximum stable productivity of the living resources of the
region.
The provisions of the convention are restricted to fishery aspects only. No reference is made
regarding pollution aspects or dredging works. Only the very general concept of "conservation of
the living resources" is considered relevant to the project. In this respect, protective measures for
fisheries during construction, dredging and disposal and the related scientific investigations
(monitoring programs) can be considered relevant issues under this convention.
The ESPO Convention:
The Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context (Espoo, 1991)
stipulates the obligations of Parties to assess the environmental impact of certain activities at an
early stage of planning. It also lays down the general obligation of States to notify and consult
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2-3                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         A
HARRIS
each other on all major projects under consideration that are likely to have a significant adverse
environmental impact across boundaries.
The list of activities relevant for this convention does not include port rehabilitation projects or
dredging works. As the proposed project is not expected to have significant adverse
environmental impact across the countries boundaries, this convention is considered to be not
applicable.
The Helsinki Convention:
The Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania on 12 March 1997 ratified the Helsinki Convention on
Marine Environmental Protection of the basin of the Baltic Sea of 1992.
The objectives of the Convention on the protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea
Area (1992 Helsinki Convention), are to take all appropriate measures, individually or by means of
regional operation, to prevent and eliminate pollution in order to promote the ecological restoration
ik         of the Baltic Sea area and the preservation of its ecological balance. The 1992 convention
succeeds the older 1974 convention on the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea
areas.
The Convention stipulates in Article 11 "Prevention of dumping"', paragraph 2:
Dumping of dredged material shall be subject to a prior special permit issued by the appropriate
national authority in accordance with the provisions of Annex V. This especially the case with
disposal of contaminated sediments and as such relevant to the project area.
Furthermore Lithuania is party to the following international environmental agreements:
Biodiversity,  Climate  Change,  Ozone  Layer  Protection,  Ship  Pollution,  Wetlands
2.2  WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GUIDELINES
Although the execution of the project is subject to the Lithuanian laws and regulations as
described in section 2.1, this Environmental Impact Assessment was carried out according the
requirements of the World Bank's Operational Directive (OP/BP 4.01, Annexes B and C, July
1998).
Additional documents consulted in relation to this port related environmental assessment
included:
*  World Bank Technical Paper Number 126: Environmental Considerations for Port and
Harbour Developments. John D. Davis, Scott Macknight, IMO Staff, and Others, 1990
*  World Bank Technical Paper Number 140: Environmental Assessment Source-Book, Volume
11 Sectorial Guidelines; Pages 185 - 195, uPort and Harbour Facilities
*  World Bank Technical Paper Number 139: Environmental Assessment Source Book, Volume
I - Policies, Procedures, and Cross-Sectoral Issues, Chapter 7 'Community Involvement and
the role of Non-Governmental Organisations in Environmental Review".
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2-4                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                           RI
s                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARRIS
2.3  COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND PUBLIC HEARINGS
2.3.1   Notification to the public
The draft EIA was presented to the KSSA in September 1998. After translation into the Lithuanian
language, this draft EIA was made available to the general public for review. The invitation by the
Port Authorities was published twice in the local Klaipeda newspaper, i.e. on October 19, 1998
and on November 4, 1998 (copies are included in appendix D). The number of people that came
to review the report was rather small (approximately 10) and no comments were received or
noted.
2.3.2  Public hearings
The people possibly affected by the works can be divided into two levels:
*  The directly involved or affected communities, which include fishermen, port operators,
people living near the beaches to be reclaimed, tourist facilities like hotels, people living or
working near the construction site.
*  The indirectly involved communities include those who, because of their particular concern or
expertise, may have relevant information regarding the nature, scope, and particulars of
potential environmental effects, e.g. consulting engineers and NGO's.
The indirect involved communities including many university lecturers have been involved from
the very beginning of the EIA preparations. Many of them have contributed to the contents of the
EIA report. See also appendix C: list of contributors.
In addition two public hearing were held at the KSSA office in Klaipeda. The first was related to
technical aspects of the project, whereas during the second one the environmental aspects of the
project and the resulting EIA was discussed.
Public hearing on technical aspects: May 11. 1999
In Spring 1999 in local newspapers in Klaipeda some articles were published where the authors
put into discussion whether a vertical breakwater would not be cheaper than the rubble mound
breakwater presented in the draft EIA report. Although it was quickly revealed that the calculations
in the newspapers included some calculation errors, the Klaipeda State Seaport Authority decided
to organise a meeting in Klaipeda in order to present and discuss the subject with people who had
expressed their interest. This meeting was organised on 11 May 1999 and was attended by the
authors of the articles (Lithuanian architects and engineers), representatives from the Lithuanian
Institute of Engineers, representatives of 'Expertise" bureau and several others (see below). On
behalf of the Consultants Mr. J.C. van der Lem was present.
At the start of the meeting, Mr. Van der Lem gave the attendees an overview of the project. First
of al the reason for the project was indicated. Further the results of the work done by Delft
Hydraulics and MARIN/MSCN in the previous studies to the project was presented and finally the
work done by the Consultants.
During the discussions after the presentation, comments and remarks were made with respect to:
1.     Costs of the breakwaters and comparison to vertical breakwater
2.     Direct benefit of the project to Lithuania
3.     Width of the harbour entrance
Ad 1.  Cost comparison
With respect to the cost comparison Consultants indicated that Delft Hydraulics in 1997/1998 had
made a cost comparison for rubble mound breakwaters and vertical breakwaters. This
comparison demonstrated that the rubble mound breakwater is less expensive than a vertical
breakwater. Verification of the rates by the Consultants at the start of the present project revealed
that indeed the vertical breakwater is more expensive than a rubble mound breakwater.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2-5                        September 1999



Kiaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
7                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARPIS
In addition to this, Consultants emphasised that the primary objective of the project is to reduce
the wave conditions inside the port. Important aspect in this respect is the reflection of waves
against the breakwaters inside the port. Therefore a vertical breakwater is less favourable than a
rubble mound breakwater.
Finally, because of the importance of fish spawning, a rubble mound breakwater (with its high
porosity) is also to be preferred over the vertical (caisson) breakwater (with its rigid, closed fronts).
Ad 2.  Direct benefit of the project to Lithuania
During the discussions it became clear that attendees would prefer a vertical breakwater since
this would result in a higher direct benefit to Lithuania. Assuming the vertical breakwater to be of a
caisson type, it would need to be constructed locally. This would result in (more) use of local
labour as well as local construction materials, which would give a direct benefit to Lithuania and to
Klaipeda more particularly.
Although Consultants do not deny this, they do not consider the direct benefit to Lithuania an
argument to select a (more expensive) vertical breakwater. Also in the construction of the rubble
mound breakwaters local labour will be included. In case of construction of the rubble mound
breakwaters with tetrapods (as will be an option to the contractors) still a substantial amount of
local construction materials will be included in the project.
Finally, the implementation of the project will have a far larger (and lasting) effect on the economy
in Lithuanian than the mere construction itself.
Ad 3.  Width of the harbour entrance
The width of the entrance was discussed and again it was emphasised that a width of 150 m was
considered too small. Preferably a width of 300 m was to be taken, being the length of the vessels
entering the port.
Consultants emphasised that in Rotterdam the channel is in the order of 500 m width for vessels
up to 300,000 DWT (approx. 350 m length). However in Rotterdam the entrance channel is a dual
passage way, whereas in Klaipeda it is only a single passage way. Finally, Consultants explained
that it is still anticipated to execute additional ship simulation studies once results of
measurements with the new measurement system are obtained.
When the meeting was adjourned, no formal "agreement" had been reached in the sense that
some people kept their (personal) opinions and reservations. The KSSA is preparing the Minutes
of Meetings, which will be distributed to the attendees in due course.
The list of participants to this community meeting is presented in Appendix D.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2-6                         September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            S
t                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARRIS
Public hearinq on the environmental aspects and the EIA: September 1 5, 1 999
In line with the EIA requirements, a public hearing on the project and its environmental aspects
was organised at the KSSA office on September 15.
The public was informed about and invited to participate by means of an add in the
Klaipeda Newspaper of September 6, 1999. In addition a letter of invitation was send to 7
NGO's. A project summary document was attached to the letter of invitation. Both the
newspaper invitation and the list of invited NGO's have been included in appendix D.
Approximately 30 participants were present at the hearing, which was also covered by local
television (broadcasted the same night) and local newspapers.
On behalf of the Consultants Mr. J.C. van der Lem (project manager) and Mr Ronald van Oostrum
(environmental specialist) were present.
After being introduced by Mr. Vitas Kaunas (project manager KSSA - PIU1, Mr. Van der Lem
gave the attendees an overview of the project. Subsequently, Mr. van Oostrum presented a
&          detailed review of the realisation of the EIA and of the environmental aspects of the works.
The comments and remarks made during the discussions after the presentations, as well as the
related answers, are summarised hereafter:
From Fisheries Research laboratorv
1. At present, dumping of dredged materials also takes place outside the designated
offshore disposal areas. As a consequence of decades of dumping a large sea area has
been negatively affected. In view of the damage done in this way to the fishing industry
some compensation might be justified. What is your opinion on that?
Replv: A specific dumping area has been indicated in the contract documents. If the
contractor complies with the requirement only to dump at this area, we do not think the
contractor should pay a compensation fee. Monitoring will be carried on to ensure that
dredged sediments are only dumped at the designated disposal site.
The topic of compensation in general (not specific for this project) is something that
might be discussed with the Ministry of the Environment.
2. The indicated disposal site for dredged sediments is more than 30 years old and
completely full. So how can you dump there?
Reolv: Based on the information available to the Worldbank study team, the disposal
area indicated is still operational. This site was also used in the first six months of this
year (1999) for disposal of the sediments dredged in the LEI dredging area. However,
this aspect will be checked with the Ministry of the Environment.
From Lithuanian Green Movement
3. It is indicated in the documentation that the net sediment transport along the coast is
practically null. How sure is it that indeed no coastline erosion will take place north or
south of the breakwaters?
Rep/Z: This problem has been studied in detail in the course of the project. The experts
involved do not expect the breakwaters to have a noticeable effect on coastline
development. However, in view of the importance of this aspect, a monitoring program
has been identified to study coastline development and to verify the expert's
assumptions.
4. It is indicated in the documentation that contaminated sediments in the LEI part have
been dumped at sea with the approval of the Ministry of the Environment. As these
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2-7                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      9
1                                                                                      HARRIS
sediments fall under the scope of the EIA, is it indicated in the EIA that these sediments
have caused damage to the marine environment?
Reoly: This aspect is clearly indicated in the main text of the EIA as well as in the
Executive Summary. It is acknowledged that the disposal of the contaminated
sediments will have caused damage to the marine environment. However, no specific
damage assessment has been carried nut in relation to the d.isposal of contaminatedl
sediments originating from the LEI dredging area. The main reasons being that:
1. Also from other parts of the port (including the highly contaminated Malku bay)
contaminated sediments have been dredged and dumped at the offshore disposal
site in the same period (1999).
2. Contaminated sediments have been dumped at the designated offshore disposal site
for many years.
Consequently, it is considered to be practically impossible to assess the damage caused
by the disposal of the contaminated sediments from the LEI area.
5. The development / implementation of a CDF has been planned for more than 5 years
now, but has been postponed twice. Will the CDF be implemented as part of the
present Worldbank project?
Reply: There is a clear desire from the side of the Worldbank to assist the Port
Authorities in solving the contaminated sediment problems of the Klaipeda port. Both
the Worldbank and the Port Authorities acknowledge that on short notice a solution in
the form of a CDF is in the Ports own interest. Within the present Worldbank dredging
area, no contaminated sediments are present. However contaminated sediments (class
3 and 4) are present practically everywhere along the seven kilometres long stretch of
the east bank of the Klaipeda Strait between the Winter Port to Malku Bay. This means
that any development in this area (dredging works or reconstruction of quay walls) will
involve handling of contaminated sediments.
6. Is money available for the implementation of a CDF?
Reply: This is still a point of discussion. No money has yet been allocated by the Port
Authorities for implementation of a CDF. The Worldbank is actively searching for
funding in this respect.
7. What are the rights of the public with respect to this project and the EIA? Is it possible
to oppose the project if it does not include a CDF?
Replv: By means of this public hearing, participants (the public and NGO's) can actively
participate in the EIA process. Concerns and comments by the public regarding the
project will be taken seriously and will be noted in the EIA. However, the function of the
EIA is limited to presenting and evaluating the pro's and con's for the natural and social
environment. It is up to the Ministry of the Environment and the Worldbank to accept or
reject the project or to decide to include a CDF. So, the rights of the participants of this
public hearing are limited in this respect.
8. What will be the maintenance costs of a CDF?
Reply: This costs for maintenance and after-care of a CDF will greatly depend on the
design, the size and the location of the CDF. As these aspects are part of an ongoing
investigation by the Worldbank team, no direct numbers can yet be given.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   2-8                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         A
_ .                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARRIS
3   DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
BACKGROUND OF THE PROJECT
When in 1991 the independence of Lithuania was restored, the idea of creating a united, modern
and universal seaport was promoted. Since that date, the structure of Kiaipeda Port has been
fundamentally reorganised and the port activities are now legislated by the Klaipeda Port Act.
The land and the infrastructure of the port are still state-owned, but the superstructures can be
privatised. The Klaipeda State Seaport Authority (KSSA) is in charge of the functioning of the
Port and the integration of it into Lithuanian transport complex. The KSSA is responsible for
maintenance, reconstruction and modernisation of the Port infrastructure, while separate
independent terminals are managing operations.
The Government of the Republic of Lithuania has approved a major investment program called
'the Programme of Construction and reconstruction of infrastructure objects of Klaipeda State
Seaport up to the year 2000". This programme includes the following projects:
1. Harbour entrance rehabilitation.
2. Dredging of the navigation channel and the harbour.
3. Container terminal.
4. Improvements of the Ro-Ro terminal.
5. Specialised quay for fertilisers and cement.
6. Specialised quays for scrap metal, timber, building materials.
7. Reconstruction of the quays.
8. Reconstruction of the railway interfaces.
9. Disposal site for contaminated sediments.
10. Passenger ferry terminal.
11. Cruise vessel terminal.
In 1997 some 25 million USD were invested in the port infrastructure. The navigational channel
was deepened and at present ships with draft of up to 10.5 m can enter the Port.
In 1996, as part of the overall plan and with the aim of increasing safety and reducing downtime
the KSSA requested Delft Hydraulics of the Netherlands to carry out a study on alternative
improvements to the sea entrance. The study included the evaluation of the design layouts on
the basis of a series of full mission simulations by the Maritime Simulation Centre of the
Netherlands in co-operation with Delft Hydraulics. This feasibility study provided the basis for a
new design, which included i.a. the construction of new breakwaters, deepening and widening of
the access channel and re-alignment of the axis of the inner harbour channel.
In 1997, KSSA requested the Lithuanian Energy Institute (LEI) to carry out a technical study on
the proposed dredging works. This study provided the basis for the design of the dredging works
and the potential impact on the environment. It also addressed the impact of the dredging works
on the stability of the existing breakwaters.
In 1998, the KSSA commissioned Frederic R. Harris B.V. in association with EDC -
Environmental & Dredging Consultancy and Uostamiescio Projektas, to prepare the final design
for the Klaipeda Port Entrance rehabilitation, including the final design of the new breakwaters
and the dredging works, as well as this Environmental Impact Assessment.
The main purpose of the port entrance rehabilitation is to reduce wave penetration into the port
and give larger vessels improved and safe access to the port. The project is co-ordinated by the
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   3-1                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        m
HARRIS
World Bank. The design works are financed by a grant from the Netherlands and Japanese
Governments.
3.1  GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
3.1 1  Improvement of Klaineda harbour entrance
The "Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Projecf' comprises:
 the construction of two new breakwaters to extend the existing breakwaters,
* the rehabilitation of the two existing breakwaters,
* dredging works for the deepening and widening of the access channel and deepening of a
part of the harbour basin to -14m, including the re-alignment of the inner harbour access
channel
* the improvement of the mooring/fendering at the Oil and KLASCO berths
*  the installation of a wave/current-measuring device near the harbour entrance to support the
pilotage.
Two of the above elements of the project are considered to be of relevance to the environmental
impact, i.e.: the construction of the two new breakwaters and the dredging and disposal works,
including the re-alignment of the navigational channel inside the port.
The main features of the works are shown in Figure 3-1. A summary of the basic characteristics
of these works is given in section 3.2 (method of construction).
:S~~~~~4
I  , .i::   S          Dane river
Figure 3-1   The basic layout of the works
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   3-2                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      HARRIS
3.1.2  Future options
In addition to the development plans for the Klaipeda port as described above, two plans need to
be mentioned, as they are of environmental importance:
ADDITIONAL DREDGING WORKS INSIDE THE PORT AREA
The presently proposed dredging works include the sea access channel and the northern
harbour area up to the Dane River. Based on the LEI dredging study (LEI 1997) it is clear, that
considerable additional deepening dredging works are being studied for the area from the Dane
River up to Alksnyne (some 5 kilometres in the direction of the lagoon). It is demonstrated in the
LEI study that the effect the present project will have on flow conditions in the Klaipeda Strait
and on salt intrusion into the lagoon may be increased considerably by additional deepening
dredging works in the remaining parts of the Klaipeda Port.
THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW DEEP-SEE HARBOUR OUTSIDE THE PRESENT PORT AREA
Recently studies have started regarding the feasibility of a new deep-sea port outside the
present port area in the Klaipeda Strait. The area considered for this new port is located directly
north of the existing north breakwater. That project is not expected to have any effect on the
environmental impacts of the present project.
3.2  METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION
3.2.1  Dredging and disposal works
DESIGN OF DREDGING WORKS
As indicated above (Background of the project), KSSA requested the Lithuanian Energy Institute
in 1997 to carry out a technical study on the proposed dredging works. This study provided the
basis for the design of the dredging works.
The original limits of the entire dredging area go from the 16 m. depth contour line in the Baltic
Sea up to the harbour entrance, the northern and southern breakwaters and the northern part of
the harbour area up to the mouth of the Dane River. The sediment quality investigations as
carried out by the LEI demonstrated that the most inner part of the project area (the first
kilometer from the Dane River seawards including the enclosed port area) contained severely
contaminated sediments. Based on these findings it was decided by KSSA not to dredge and
deepen this area for the time being. Subsequently this part was taken out of the dredging plans.
In March 1998, the KSSA commissioned Fred. R. Harris in association with EDC -
Environmental & Dredging Consultancy and Uostamiescio projektas, to prepare the final design
for the Klaipeda Port Entrance rehabilitation, including the final design of the dredging works.
There was a clear overlap in the works to be carried out in relation to the dredging part of the
project between the works of this World Bank team and the LEI. In order to prevent double work,
the Port Authorities decided to split the dredging area into two parts.
The dredging area was subdivided into 41 sections of varying size according to the scheme
given in Figure 3-2. The boundaries of the dredging area for the World Bank team are marked
by line 27 (between oil berth 2 and 3) and line 71 (out at sea).
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   3-3                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                           m
HARRIS
Consequently the design characteristics of the total dredging works as presented in this report
are a mixture of the dredging design by the LEI (from the Dane River up to line 27) and the
dredging design by the World Bank team (from line 27 to the 16 m depth contour line).
The access channel has a design depth of 14 meters and a width of 150 meters (between the
toe-lines). Slopes are a design factor, which would in this shallow layer dredging not affect
volumes significantly. Slopes can be defined as: "box-cut equivalent of natural angle of repose";
boulder clayk will stand at any excavated angle including vertical, the sands would be expected to
settle in the order of 1 vertical to 5-8 horizontal.
Acceptable dredging tolerances are still to be discussed, but for calculation purposes a vertical
tolerance of 50 cm and a horizontal tolerance of 3 meters is assumed for this project. However
these tolerances may be minimised by proper equipment selection.
1: ;4
Dane river
Figure 3-2    Dredging area sections
At the location of the bend increased channel surface will be created to allow ships some extra
space to drift sideways. Some small additional dredging work is also being considered in relation
to the construction of the breakwaters. This to prevent that the heads of the breakwaters are
constructed on a sloping plane.
For more detailed information on the final designs reference is made to the related design
reports.
SEDIMENT CHARAcTERISTicS AND VOLUMES
The following description of the sediments, as well as the volumes involved are based on the
data as presented in the LEI report and soil investigations carried out by Consultants. Although
H7371   Draft Finai Environmental Impact Assessment    3-4                        September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabifitation Project                                          D
HARRIS
the final quantities of the various sediments to be dredged might to some degree deviate from
those presented, this will not affect in any way the outcome of this EIA.
In general the types of the bottom materials, of significance for the fairway dredging, and limited
to the shallow top layer of some 3-4 m thickness can be described as glacial till or "boulder clay"
under a blanket of fine to medium sand.
The upper sand layer, which was identified by available survey techniques, has a high degree of
dredgeabiiity. A reservation must be made for the possible occurrence of stones, cobbles and
boulders originating from the underlying boulder clay.
The boulder clay is close to rock stage, extremely tough to excavate. It is further characterised
by the enclosure of stones, cobbles and boulders of greatly varying degree of incidence. The
clay itself is very hard to dredge and even powerful excavating equipment will have a relatively
low production rate. The stones, cobbles and boulders constitute a very significant complication.
With larger sizes, the presence of these rocks will obstruct the excavation in an increasing
manner. It is thereby technically not feasible to establish with any precision the incidence of the
various classes of rock with regard to size by geotechnicaVgeophysical means.
A point of serious concern is the presence of contaminated sediments in the LEI dredging area.
Although all the contaminated sediments are located outside the area marked as the Worldbank
dredging area, they are located within the Port Entrance Rehabilitation project area. All
sediments located in the Worldbank dredging area are clean or only slightly contaminated. The
levels of contamination found in this area are so low that no restrictions are required in relation
to dredging, disposal and/or beneficial usage of these sediments. Details on sediment quality in
the Worldbank dredging area, the LEI dredging area and the non dredged part up to the Dane
River are presented in section 4.4.3 of this EIA.
For planning of the dredging works the entire dredging area has been divided by the LEI into 9
sub-areas (Figure 3-3). Unfortunately in the data presented by the LEI, the sediments in selected
areas are all categorised according the most difficult layer to be dredged. This means that in
areas where both fine sand and boulder clay is to be dredged, the information only displays the
total volume and the indication that it is boulder clay. In reality it might be considered to dredge
these two different sediment types separately, especially if contaminated sediments are to be
removed. This aspect should be realised while evaluating the sediment volumes given in Table
3-1. According the calculations of the LEI the total volume of "boulder clay amounts to 1,477,000
mi3, whereas the total volume of sand amounts to 412,000 m3.
Table 3-1
Characteristics of selected dredging areas, according to LEI (Kaunas, 1998).
Soil type:          I - boulder clay,
11 - sand with gravel and pebble admixture;
Disposal area:      a - Baltic Sea dump 24 km offshore,
b - Baltic Seashore 1 km north from Northern breakwater.
Item                           Sub areas
A     B    C      D    E    F    G       H      I
Dredging depth (m)              14   14   14    14   14   14   14   14   13.5
Average layer thickness (m)     3.0   3.0  3.0  3.0  2.0  2.0   1.0  1.0  2.0
Soil type                        I     I     I     I     I     I    11    11     I
Quantities (m x 1000)          308  211   255   103  275  278  211  201   47
Estimated duration (days)       60    50   51    18   45   48    31   31    10
Disposal area                   a    a    a       a    a    a    b    b    a
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    3-5                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                             9
HARRIS
The areas E, F, G and H together form the dredging works to be carried out under the World
Bank tender. In these areas Consultants carried out additional soils investigations and detailed
soundings, based on which Consultants prepared their estimate of different materials to be
dredged. These are indicated in Table 3.2, according the same classification as in Table 3.1.
Table 3-2
Characteristics of selected dredging areas, according to Consultants
r       ltem                         sub area
_           _              E+F          G+H
Dredging depth (m)               14          14
Average layer thickness (m)     2.0          2.0
Soil type                         I           11
Quantities (M3 x 1000)          675          675
Disposal area                    a            b
~~~~~ ~~~~Dane river~
Figure 3-3    Dredging areas by LEI
DREDGING EQUIPMENT TO BE USED
Due to differences in the sediment characteristics (sand, silty sand and boulder clay), the levels
of contamination and local characteristics (open sea versus sheltered harbour area), different
dredging scenarios have been developed. However, it is to be noted that the selected contractor
will determine the final choice of the dredging equipment.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    3-6                         September 1999
n-o ,-



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          5
tlARRIS
For the area between lines 71 - 27 (World Bank study area), a sensible dredging scenario could
be:
*  Remove the sand blanket above the glacial till as much as possible by Trailing Suction
Hopper Dredging and minimise the workload for stationary equipment.
* Apply stationary equipment, of which excavators mounted on a self-elevating platform with
split barges seem to have preference, for the removal of the boulder clay packages. Apply
location interchange between inshore and offshore part of ihe work area in order to curtaii
downtime (in view of wave conditions).
For the area between lines 27 and 10 (LEI study area) the usage of a bucket dredger in
combination with a grab dredge is foreseen.
DISPOSAL OF DREDGED MATERIALS
According the LEI study the vast majority of the dredged sediments, including all the boulder clay
and the contaminated sediments will be disposed off at the marine dumpsite No 3, which is
located some 20-24 kilometres offshore. It is proposed to beneficially use the sands dredged
from the outer sea channel (between section 47 and 71), by placing these sediments north of the
North breakwater at a depth of 4 m.
In Section 7 of this EIA, recommendations on dredging and handling contaminated sediments,
as well as on additional options for beneficial use of the dredged sediments are presented.
3.2.2  Breakwater construction
In order to reduce wave heights within the port of Klaipeda, both breakwaters will be extended.
The North breakwater will be extended by about 250 m and the South breakwater will be
extended by about 350 m. The distance between the breakwater heads will be small enough to
reduce wave heights in the harbour adequately, but will be large enough to enable vessels
entering or departing safely (see Figure 3-1).
The breakwaters will be low crested, as the expected overtopping during wave attack is
acceptable for navigation. The breakwaters will not be accessible, so floating equipment will be
required to carry out maintenance.
The breakwater extensions will be of the rubble mound type, with a quarry run or gravel core. A
typical cross-section of the new breakwaters is presented in Figure 3-4. On the core a rock filter
layer will be placed to prevent the core material from being washed out. On the trunk sections,
on the filter layer a rock armour layer will be placed which can resist the wave attack and through
which the filter material can not be washed out. The heads of both breakwater extensions will be
armoured with concrete armour units. These units will be prefabricated at a construction site
near the breakwaters. At the toe of the breakwaters (the point where the armour layer reaches
the seabed), a toe protection will be constructed which gives support to the armour layer and
thus prevents the armour layer from sliding down. On both sides of the breakwaters a bottom
protection consisting of a rock layer on a geotextile membrane will be placed to prevent scouring.
The most probable construction method of the new breakwaters involves floating equipment.
The new breakwater heads will be located on the slope of the existing entrance channel. As the
breakwater heads will be constructed on a horizontal sea bottom, firstly a trench will be
excavated at the planned breakwater head location. Then the core of the breakwater will be
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   3-7                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitaton Project                                         NA}
constructed by dumping quarry run or gravel using dump barges and profiling the material using
a pontoon mounted grab. The bottom and toe protection, under layers and armour layers will be
constructed using pontoons, floating cranes and tugs.
The construction of the extensions of the breakwaters involves about 270,000 m3 rock and
30,000 m3 concrete. The rock material for the breakwater works will be supplied from abroad,
either from Finland or Sweden. Aggregates and sand for the concrete armour units and possibly
gravel for the breakwater core will come from local borrow areas.
Figure 3-4    A typical cross-section of the new breakwaters
3.2.3  Wreck removal
Two shipwrecks are located near the head of the existing North breakwater. The wreck located
on the outside of the breakwater is the former Greek tanker "Globe Asimi", of which no data
could be retrieved regarding possible cargo remains. During the time of writing of this EIA, no
decision had yet been made with respect to the possible removal of this wreck.
The wreck located on the inside of the breakwater concerns the remains of the motor vessel
"Rudolf Breitcheid". This vessel, which is to be removed under the current project, ran aground
on a shoal near the head of the breakwater on 24 September 1988. At that moment the vessel
was carrying steel roles as cargo. During the accident the vessel broke in two. After the accident
the vessels cargo was unloaded, after which the vessel's bow part was taken to Finland.
Presently only the back part still remains.
The original dimensions of the ship were:
"uLength of vessel:        142 m
thWidth of vessel:         18,6 m
*  Tonnage of vessel:      15570 t
In 1993 the dimensions of the remaining wreck were estimated at:
*  Length of the wreck:    71 m
*  Mass of the wreck:      2774,0 t
In 1994 an attempt was made to lift the wreck ashore. Unfortunately, during the execution of the
wreck removal works, the crane SPK-1 5 sank near the northern breakwater. Consequently, only
a part of the 'Rudolf Breitcheid" wreck has been removed. At that time the KLASCO engineers
from the communications department presented the following data with respect to the wreck
removal works:
* Mass quantity of the wreck: 3482.0 t
*  Lifted ashore:          1238.8 t
*  Left:                   2243.2t
*  Oil products present:   none
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    3-8                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitabon Project                                                       I
HARRIS
In the mean time the upper part of the sunken crane has been removed, but the foundation of
the crane still remains. This foundation is also to be removed as part of the current project.
Note: It is to be noted that KSSA has indicated that it can not guarantee the preciseness
of the above data.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    3-9                              September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        v
HARRIS
4   BASELINE DATA ON PRESENT SITUATION
4.1  GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE STUDY AREA
Klaipeda is located at a strait connecting the Kursiu
Mviarios (Curonian lagoon) wilth the Baltic Sea (Figure l;  
4.1). The study area comprises:
*  a part of the Baltic sea and its coasts
*  Klaipeda and its Port
*  the Curonian lagoon
Each of these areas will be discussed separately. 
4.1.1  Baltic Sea Coastal area
To the south of Klaipeda a narrow peninsula separates
the Curonian lagoon from the Baltic Sea. This peninsula                       ng
is a sandy stretch of land extending 98 kilometres, with a
width varying from 400 meters to 3.8 kilometres. It was
formed some five to six thousand years ago, as sand
accumulated in the shallower waters along the Baltic  ;1
coast. Because of its unique scenic beauty and
ecological values the peninsula has been declared as a
national park: "the Kursiu Nerija National Park". The
area is one of the most popular and prestigious
recreation areas in Lithuania and its sand dunes, pine                      Tam
forests and 80 - 100 meters wide beaches attract tens
of thousands of holiday-makers every year. The national  "  :
park also includes a 2.5 kilometres wide sea zone along
the Curonian spit coast.
The first 6.5 kilometres of the Curonian spit (see Figure
4-2a) is called the Smiltyne area. This area belongs to
the Klaipeda municipality and has a total local population          *.l?
of 80 inhabitants. Most of the local inhabitants are
employed  in  the  Kursiu  Nerijos  National  Park
administration. The Smiltyne area is divided into five   Figure 4-1  Area map
functional subareas, being: an urbanised territory,
territories for intensive and extensive recreational use, a
landscape reserve and the water aquatory.
All land is state owned and its main function is recreational use. Industrial activities in this
area are prohibited. Of the total 47 buildings in this area 4 are living apartments and 70% of
the rest are recreational objects, which include: a maritime museum and aquarium, a
dolphinarium, a Curonian spit nature museum, 2 hotels and 6 pensions, a marina, the
administration office of the National park, a fisheries research laboratory, 5 cafes and 2 local
ferry terminals.
The coastal area to the north of Klaipeda consists of a 2 kilometre wide coastal zone from the
north breakwater to the Karkle settlement, which is located some 8 kilometres from the port
entrance. Two types of natural landscapes can be distinguished: sandy beaches and morenic
cliffs. The total surface area as indicated in Figure 4-2b is 982 ha.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-1                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                       H
HARRIS
Administratively this area belongs to the Klaipeda City's "green belt" (80%) and the
"Dutchman hat" landscape reserve (20%). About 70% of the area is covered by forests, 15%
are sand dunes and 15% is urbanised.
The bottom relief is characterised by landward elevation. In the northern part the elevation
reaches 10 m, while in the southern part it reaches 30 meters. The coastline is dominated by
sandy beaches, except for a small range near the "Dutchman hat", where gravel beaches can
be found. The forests growing on the sandy soils consist mainly of pine, birch and black alms.
These Northern Klaipeda suburbs and the Paiurio Landscape Park are important as
recreational zone for Klaipeda City. In the summer this area is attended by up to 2300 visitors
per day.
Small private houses dominate in the three settlements, The present populations of these
settlements are: Melnrage 1130 inhabitants, Melnrage II 41 inhabitants and Girulai 250
inhabitants. Child camps and pensions can be found in the Girulai area. The biggest industry
in this area is the Oil Exporting Plant situated in southern Melnrage. Most of the commercial
activities here are services and include: cafes, restaurants and pensions, a camping site,
children camps and other recreational services.
d   61 ,r. *A*  ,.-
A                             
Figures 4-2 a and b   Coastal areas south and north the breakwaters. Green - forest, yellow
-  beach,  purple  -  living  apartments,  red  -  recreational  objects,  brown  -
industrial/commercial.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-2                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         v
HARRIS
4.1.2   Klaipeda and its Port
The city of Klaipeda stretches along the Klaipeda Strait and is built according a linear plan.
The city has 202,000 inhabitants, making it the third largest city in Lithuania. The Port of
Klaipeda is the most northern ice-free port in the eastern part of the Baltic Sea.
Figure 4-3    Klaipeda Port areas
The Port is oriented in a South - North direction. The distance from the most northern point to
the most southern point is more than 1 1 km. The Port areas comprises more than 19 km of
quay walls, 8.3 km of which are used for cargo handling. The rest of the quay walls are used
for shipbuilding, ship repairing and other activities. At present the northern part of the port
has a depth in between -10.5 - -12.0 m. In other parts of the port depth varies between -8
and -1 2 m. The width of the Klaipeda strait varies from 0.4 - 1.1 km.
At present the port is able to accommodate ships of up to 200 m in length and with draughts
of 10.5m. Every year about 7000 ships enter the port from more than 50 foreign countries.
Via regular shipping lines Klaipeda Port is linked to various European and American
countries. There are well known lines to Kiel, Hamburg, Bremerhafen, Copenhagen,
Stockholm, Arhus and Gdynia and container lines to Rotterdam and Felixstowe. Hinterland
road and railway connections are good. The highway links Klaipeda to Kaunas, Vilnius, Minsk
and Moscow. Two railway stations serve the Port, whereas the nearest airport is in Palanga,
25 km away.
The most important types of the cargo in the Klaipeda port are: steal prodects - about 4.5
million tons, fertilisers - about 2 million tons, oil products - up to 5-6 million tons, wood
products - about 0.7 million tons, grain - about 0.5 million tons, reefer cargo - up to 1 million
tons, sugar - about 0.5 million tons and cement - up to 0.4 million tons.
In Klaipeda Port downtime in the port is linked to meteorological conditions. During strong
storms, in average occurring 20-25 days per year, ships can not enter or leave the port. In
some years this period can even be longer resulting in 45-50 downtime days in a year. Also
due to weather conditions the stevedoring companies cannot operate in between 15-25 days
per year.
The Klaipeda State Seaport Authority KSSA, which was founded in 1991, is in charge of the
functioning of the port and is responsible for maintenance, reconstruction and modernisation
of the Port infrastructure. Loading and unloading operations are being managed by separate
independent terminals. The land and the infrastructure of the Port belong to the state,
whereas the superstructure can be privatised. Besides some private stevedoring companies,
the Port includes several shipyards (both construction and repair), and the oil Terminal
"Klaipeda Nafta". In total more than 10000 employees work in the Klaipeda Port and related
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-3                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        m
HARRIS
industries. More information on specific aspects like vessel traffic control, and reception
facilities of the Port can be found in Section 4.7 of this report.
4.1.3   Curonian lagoon
The Curonian lagoon is a large shallow transitory freshwater body, situated in the
southeastern Baltic Sea and separated from the sea by the Curonian Spit. The surface area
of the lagopn is 1584 kM2, the longest axis is 93 km, the shortest axis is 46 km. The basin
contains about 6 km of water. The mean depth is 3.8 m, whereas the maximum depth of 5.8
m can be found in the southern region.
The southern and central portions of the lagoon are fresh water due to discharge from the
Nemunas River and other smaller rivers, maintaining a predominant flow from the south to
the north.
The northern part of the lagoon and the Klaipeda Strait are influenced by seawater intrusions
from the Baltic Sea. These rapid and irregular water exchanges cause large fluctuations in
temperature, salinity and other characteristics.
As the lagoon is relatively shallow, stratification of the water column, if present at all, is weak
and unstable. The large amount of nutrients transported by the rivers keep the lagoon in a
eutrophicated state.
Morphological properties of the lagoon and hydrodynamical unstability can be considered as
the key factors determining the main characteristics of water masses, bottom substrate,
distribution of pelagic and benthic communities and ecological problems as well.
In 1983 the Curonian spit was broken in its narrowest part near the town of Lesnoje (Russia),
due to a strong storm and an extreme Baltic Sea level rise. The seawater inflow through the
break did not cause permanent damage to the lagoon ecosystem.
4.2    CLIMATE
The climate of Lithuania is transitional between maritime and continental. In the 12-15
kilometres-wide coastal zone it is maritime, and in the eastern part of the country it is
continental. From the point of view of suitability for human health and economic activities the
climate can be considered to be among the favourable ones. It is characterised by seasonal
changes of temperature four times a year, by moderate heat in summer and by adequate
humidity and a sufficient number of bright days. The negative features include long autumns
and winters, and a relatively short vegetation period (169-202 days).
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-4                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
4.2.1  Temperature and Precipitation
The temperature and precipitation data shown in Table 4-1 show the usual seasonal changes
for the study area.
Table 4-1
Average temperature and precipitation data in the study area
Average     Temperature    and Average Air and Water temperatures in
Precipitation in Kaunas         Klaipeda and the Curonian Lagoon
Period: 1951 - 1990             Period: 1996
Month    Temperature   Precipitation [mm]  Air Temperature Water Temperature
[C]                            [0C]            [0C]
Jan             -4.9           36                -1.1            0.1
Feb             -4.1           27                1.6             0.6
Mar             -0.3           33                1.4             2.4
Apr             6.0            40                3.7             5.1
May              12.6          55                9.7             12.7
Jun              15.9          93                15.8            18.0
Jul              17.0          72                18.1            21.3
Aug              16.2          66                19.9            21.9
Sep              12.1          57                14.7            15.1
Oct             7.1            48                7.5             9.5
Nov             2.2            52                3.0             3.3
Dec             -2.3           45                -0.9           ice
4.2.2  Wind
Detailed wind information, based on data of 1947 - 1996 of Klaipeda Marine station, is
presented in the LEI report (Kaunas 1998) and can be summarised as follows:
Although wind is one of the most unstable meteorological elements and sudden changes of
weather are characteristic all year round, a distinct seasonal effect can be recognised in the
monthly mean values of the wind velocity and direction.
The prevailing wind direction is SE in the winter, westerly to northerly in spring, westerly in
summer and variable between W and SE in the autumn. The winds are weakest in spring and
highest in wintertime. Strong winds generally come from westerly to northerly directions (SW-
W-NW-N) and occur throughout the year. In some winters strong cold winds from the east
may persist for several weeks.
The all year long-term wind climate at Klaipeda is presented in Table 4-2. This table shows
the percentage of occurrence of winds of various strengths from each direction. From this
table it can be deducted that in about 80% of the time the winds are less than 10 m/s.
D
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-5                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                              AIS
_                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARRIS
Table 4-2
Probability that winds occur in the given speed and direction class at Klaipeda Met Station (long
term); Based on period 1947 - 1988
Wind speed Wind Direction in 30' sectors ('N)                                                            I
(mIs)       0      30    60    90    120        150   180   210   240   270    300   330   Total
<.50        .52   .52   .53   .55   .39    1.31.  .24   .20   .18   .19            .28    .36    4.27
.50:1.75    1.20   1.25   1.29   1.38   1.01    .82   .59   .49   .46   .48        .69    .87    10.54
1.75 :I3.35               2U 4ii       2        I86   101  '1.00   1.01   1.04    1.39   1.48   18.71
3.35:5.25   1.15   1.40   1.64   2.1    2.58    2.32   1.06   1.41   1.56   1.67    1.86   1.73   20.48
5.25:8.45   1.03  .95    1.12   1.71   3.44    3.44   1.70   2.99   3.48   3.65    3.21   2.56   29.28
8.45:11.15   .18   .09    0.09  .19   .65       .73   .50    1.11   1.36   1.51    .97    .64    8.04
11.15:14.15  .10   .06    0.06  .09   .33      .39   .30   .88    1.11   1.24   .72    .43    5.70
14.15:17.00  .01   .01    0.01  .01   .05      .06   .08   .30   .40   .48         .28   .16    1.86
17.00:21.00  .01   .00    .     .      .01     .02   .03   .16   .22   .28         .16   .09   .79
21.00:24.50  .00                               .      .00   .02   .03   .04        .02   .01    .12
24.50:28.50                      .     .       .      .      .00   .01   .01       .00    .      .03
28.50:33.00        .       _    .                     .      .                              - .   -__--
>33.00      .      .      .      .     .        .     .      .      .      .00     .     I       .00
Total       564   6.03   6.75   8.51   10.70   9.95   5.52   8.57   9.83   1058   9.57   8.34   100.00
4.2.3   Fog and Ice formation
Both fogs and ice formation are meteorological conditions that cause trouble to the activities
in the port areas.
FOG
Fog can occur all year round, but two maximum occurrences can be observed: one in the
beginning of winter in December and one in spring in April. Fogs mostly occur when the wind
direction is from the west. A review of the average number of foggy days in Klaipeda is given
in Table 4-3.
Table 4-3
____________     ~Average_number of fo  dys~ in Klaipeda __
Month         Jan   Feb  Mar  Apr  Mly  Jun  Jul  AU9  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Year
No of Days    3.4  4.0  5.9  6.0  5.7  3.6  2.4  1.9  2.7  3.4  3.5  4.4  47.0
Average
duration of fog 39   33   44   40   42   17   17   9    11   24   31   33   28.3
in hours
ICE FORMATION
In wintertime the waters of the lagoon will freeze. The thickness of the ice in the lagoon at
Nida is approximately 65 - 70 cm in frosty winters. In the northern parts of the lagoon, up to
the Klaipeda Strait the ice is three times thinner and not thicker than 30 cm.
During mild winters or at the end of a frosty period, the ice cover at the lagoon may break up
due to termical cracks in the ice and high wind velocities resulting in the formation of drift ice.
These drifting ice formations may cause danger to navigation in the Klaipeda Strait. Very
intensive ice drifting period are also potentially dangerous for ships mooring near quay walls
and ships that cannot use the normal anchoring positions in the port. Intensive ice moving
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-6                        September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                       I
HARRIS
periods, with ice from the lagoon floating to the sea through the Klaipeda Strait, usually last
for 3 to 10 days. Due to the influence of warmer water from the Baltic Sea, intensive
navigation, water depth and waves, the Klaipeda Strait does normally not freeze. Exceptions
were recorded for the winters of 1935 and 1936, when the Klaipeda strait was covered with
ice for a period of 20 - 30 days.
The Baltic Sea near Klaipeda (and consequently also the Klaipeda Strait) freezes only in very
cold and frosty winters. The last of these cold winters was in 1970, when all of the Baltic Sea
was covered by ice for more than one month. In milder winters small and large sized ice
patches may be found along the coast up to about 100 km offshore.
4.3    HYDRAULICS
4.3.1   Water levels and flows
The tidal motion in the Baltic Sea is very weak. Water level changes at sea are mainly
caused by wind set-up and at Klaipeda Port also by fresh water run-off. According to the
Admiralty Chart 2276, Chart Datum is approximately Mean Sea Level. Monthly mean water
levels presented in the LEI report (Kaunas 1998) show a seasonal variation with low values
(around -0.1 m) in springtime and high values (around +0.1 m) in the period from September
through January.
Data of extreme water levels at sea (station at Pionerskas) and in Klaipeda Strait (Klaipeda
Port) seem not fully consistent, possibly due to differences in the sampling periods, but do
indicate that a level of about +0.5 m is exceeded once per year and a level of +1.0 m is only
seldomly exceeded. The water level may drop below -0.5 m once every year and rarely below
-1.0 m. Extreme water levels always occur during extreme events and may fall back to MSL in
a period of one or two days in case of storms. In that period a large volume of water (approx.
200 million m3 per dm water level change) has to pass Klaipeda Strait to level the water level
in the lagoon with the sea. This may cause high flow velocities in Klaipeda Strait.
The statistical analysis of the water-level fluctuations at the Klaipeda water-level
measurement post (three kilometres inland from the harbour entrance) as carried out by the
Baltic Eco group over a period of 34 years (1950 to 1972 and 1978 to 1988) is presented in
Table 4-4.
Table 4-4
Prob bility of minimum and maximum water levels in Klaipeda Strait
Return period  Maximum level (m)  Minimum level (m)
1             0.45               -0.51
2             0.85               -0.58
5             1.10               -0.77
10            1.24               -0.83
20            1.43               -0.89
50            1.62               -0.97
100           1.80      _        -1.03
Normally, the water level changes will be small, especially during a day. Then the flow
velocities in Klaipeda Strait and the outlet will be mainly determined by the rivers discharging
into the lagoon and density currents. The mean annual inflow of the main rivers (see Figure
4-4) amounts to:
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-7                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                     9
HARRIS
*  Nemunas River:   18 km3
*  Matrosovka River:  4 km3
*  Deima River:       1 km3
This means an average inflow rate of fresh water of 730 m3/s.
From long-term measurements it appears that about 97 % of the flow data in the central part
of tle lagoon show velocities of !ess than 0.10 m/s; the maximum observed flow velocity was
0.50 m/s.
The water balance in Klaipeda Strait over a period of many years shows:
*  Average annual outflow volume:   27.8 km3 (from the lagoon to the sea)
*  Average annual inflow volume:    5.5 km3 (from the sea to the lagoon)
*  Net outflow:                    22.3 km3
* .. ~11
Li.1~~v --   -<
- 
Figure 4-4 River water inflow into the Curonian Lagoon (long
term average situation without wind).
When the flow is directed from the lagoon to the sea, the most recurrent water discharge in
the Klaipeda Strait is 1300 m3/s. During tides the discharge increases till 3250 m3/s, whereas
the average velocity of the flow increases to 0.8 m/s. The maximum conductivity of the Strait
is approximately 5000 m3/s, which corresponds to a flow velocity of 1.2 m/s.
Inflow into the lagoon from the sea on average occurs 40 times per year with a total duration
of 70 days. Wind set-up and density currents cause the inflow of salt sea water along the
bottom of Klaipeda Strait into the lagoon. In the period 1973-1981 the average annual inflow
amounted to 4.7 km3 and after deepening of the access channel it increased to 5.9 km3 in
the period 1982-1989. Usually the discharge during inflow from the sea is around 850 m3/s.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-8                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        a
HARRIS
However, during extreme storms it could reach as much as 3500 m3/s, with a corresponding
flow velocity of 1 m/s.
Sometimes intermediate conditions occur in the Strait. In those cases a fresh water surface
layer flows from the lagoon, whereas a salt bottom layer flows from the sea to the lagoon. The
discharges during these conditions, which occur in approximately 25% of the time are small,
and flow velocities may reach 0.2 m/s.
For the currents in the Klaipeda port region, reference is also made to Delft Hydraulics (1998)
who described the current conditions based on measurements carried out by Baltic Eco
(1984-1989):
The currents in the port were measured some 1500 m landward from the port entrance.
These flow conditions are supposed to be representative for the port up to the port entrance.
A summary of the measured velocities is given in Table 4-5. In this table, the exceedance
percentages for different current velocities are presented.
Based on the monitoring works four flow regimes have been identified by Baltic Eco:
1. Maximum current flowing into the sea over the whole cross-section
2. Maximum current flowing into the lagoon over the whole cross-section
3. Maximum current flowing into the sea over the whole cross-section, while also flow into
the lagoon occurs at other parts of the cross-section
4. Maximum current flowing into the lagoon over the. whole cross-section, while also flow
into the sea occurs at other parts of the cross-section
Table 4-5
Current velocities in the port
Current    velocity Flow re gime       __=
higher than:       1      2       3    4
(mis)               2_3_
0.0                68.8  14.2   5.9  5.9
0.1                63.7   12.2   4.9  3.1
0.2                49.3  6.6    2.4  1.0
0.3                30.8  4.0    1.1
0.4                9.3    2.5    0.3
0.5                 4.6    1.0
0.6                2.6    0.0          _
0.7                0.0     __
The maximum flow velocity to be expected in a 70-year period is 1.2 m/s. From Table 4-5 it
can be seen that during 12% of time the current velocity exceeds 0.4 m/s. In these periods
the most channel scour will occur.
In the studies mentioned above, also a relationship between current, discharge and water
level difference between the lagoon and the sea is presented, see Table 4-6.
Table 4-6
RelationshiP between current, discharge and water level difference
Hiagoon-Hsea (m)  Discharge (m3/s)    Current velocity (m/s)   Current direction
-0.6              3500                1.0                   into the lagoon
0.4               2800                0.7                   into the sea
0.5               3250                0.8                   into the sea
1.2               5000                1.2                   into the sea
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-9                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
4.3.2  Waves
The Baltic Sea wave climate is mainly induced by wind. In general it can be stated that in the
Klaipeda water territory near the seashore, the biggest waves reach 3 to 5 meters. In the
open sea they reach 6 to 7 meters, whereas in exceptional situations they may reach more
than 9 meters.
OFFSHORE WAVE CLIMATE
For determination of the offshore wave climate near Klaipeda, model results from the wave
hindcast model of the British Meteorological Office have been used. The model returns wave
characteristics at specific gridpoints. Data, on which the model for the Baltic Sea is based,
are available for a 12-year period. The gridpoint for which the offshore wave climate is
determined is (55.8 ON, 20.7 E), where the present entrance to Klaipeda port is at (55.7 ON,
21.1 E).
For each directional sector of 30, the exceedance probabilities for different wave heights
have been determined with the model. Based on these probabilities, extreme significant wave
heights have been determined, see Table 4-7. In this table, only the wave heights for the
relevant directional sectors are presented. The table shows a dominant wave direction
between SW and W.
Table 4-7
Extreme deep-water wave height offshore Klaipeda
sector (ON) 180      210      240       270       300       330       0
return     H3        Hs       Hs        Hs        H,        H,        Hs
period     (n)       (m)      (m)       (m)       (in)      (m)       (m)
1 year     3.3       4.2      4.5       5.6       3.5       3.4       3.9
5 years    4.4       5.5      5.7       7.1       4.6       4.5       5.2
10 years   4.8       6.0      6.2       7.8       5.0       4.9       5.7
20 years   5.3       6.6       6.7      8.4       5.5       5.4       6.2
50 years   5.9       7.3      7.3       9.3       6.0       6.0       6.9
NEARSHORE WAVE CLIMATE
To obtain the nearshore wave climate, necessary as input characteristics in the breakwater
design, a mathematical wave model has been set up. The wave propagation modelling has
been carried out using the nearshore "Spectral Wind Waves module" of the two-dimensional
modelling package MIKE21, developed by the Danish Hydraulic Institute.
The wave propagation has been calculated for waves approaching from the sectors 180-0 ON
via west. In order to calculate the wave propagation from each direction correctly, three
models have been set up. The Southwest model is used for calculation of waves coming from
1800 and 210 N waves, the West model is used for 2400, 2700 and 300 ON waves and the
Northwest model for 3300 and 0 N waves. For more specific information on the models used
reference is made to the conceptual design report (Harris, 1998). The resulting significant
wave height and mean wave direction at the locations of the new North and South breakwater
are presented in Table 4-8.
Also, waves are registered in the coast hydrometeorological stations of Klaipeda (since
1948), Sventoji (1948 - 1958) and Nida (since 1954). Statistical analysis of available data
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-10                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitaton Project                                       m
HARRIS
shows that 85% of the waves near the coast are less than 2 m high. 45% of the observed
wave height values range from 0.5 to 1 .0 m.
Table 4-8
Nearshore wave characteristics, return period = 50 years
Offshore    wave North breakwater             South breakwater
direction [N]   (Zbotto= -7 m CD)            (Zb.tton= -10 m CD)
He [im]    Nearshore  wave H (im]       Nearshore  wave
direction [N ]             direction [ON
180              4.0         215              4.0         232
210              4.3         223              4.5         240
240              4.5         248              5.0         250
270              4.8         260              5.3         262
300              4.2         276              4.6         278
330              4.0         285              3.6         295
0                3.8         289              3.1         299
HARBOUR AREA AND LAGOON WAVE CLIMATE
The waves entering the Klaipeda Strait and harbour areas from the sea gradually die out.
However, from time to time oscillations of the water level occur in the harbour area. This
phenomenon is rather dangerous for ships staying near quays. Harbour oscillations can
reach 50 cm in height, with 30 - 300 second periods.
During severe storms, 3 - 4 meter high waves were observed in the northern part of the
Klaipeda Strait, whereas 1 meter high waves occurred in the central part of the harbour.
Wave observations in the lagoon are performed at Nida (since 1948), Juodkrante (since
1954) and Vente (since 1954). Low but steep waves are induced by strong winds in the
shallow lagoon. The highest waves recorded reached 2.2 m in the central part of the lagoon
(1959 - 1961). In most cases (60%) wave height is about 0.5 m.
4.3.3  Coastal sediment transport
HISTORIC DATA
The present contours of the entire Lithuanian coastline of the Baltic Sea were formed about
6000 years ago after the maximum of the Lithuanian Sea transgression. In the past the outlet
of Klaipeda Strait was not fixed by breakwaters. Historic data show that in the period 1746-
1796 the Curonian spit became 565 m longer and another 75 m in the period 1796-1820 (i.e.
8.5 m/yr.). At the same time the northern coast of the outlet retreated (180 m in the period
1796-1820 or 7.2 m/yr). Hence, the outlet migrated slowly northward.
In the period 1834-1878 the outlet was fixed by the construction of breakwaters. In the period
1834-1845 the first part of the northern breakwater was built. Then, in the period 1845-1878
the southern breakwater was built and the northern one extended because the northern
beach had accreted to the tip of the northern breakwater in 1845.
In 1957 the southern breakwater was extended by 350 m to its present length. Possibly the
northern breakwater was reduced in length by 60 m at that time.
In 1960-1962 the depth of the access channel was dredged to a depth of 10 -10.5 m below
Datum in the outer part of the channel and to 9 - 9.5 m in the inner part. In 1982-1983 the
depth of the outer part of the channel was further increased to the present depth of 12 -12.5
m. The width of the present channel is 100 m.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-11                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        a
HARRIS
Figure 4-5 shows the response of the coastline on the human interference in the period 1835-
1990. Unfortunately, only the coastline in the immediate vicinity of the breakwaters is shown,
which makes it hard to see whether the coastal changes are only local or are part of large-
scale changes. Experts of Delft Hydraulics reported a mildly sloping beach profile south of the
outlet and a steep sloping profile north of it. They also observed demolished bunkers at
several hundreds of metres north of the northern breakwater indicating erosion.
18;78i 87
N...~~~~~
1                 1878
1878   ~*    KUPRMIV
Figure 4-5    Coastline development from 1835-1990 near Klaipeda Strait (according to
Knaps, 1968; Zilinskas, 1990)
PRESENT OPINIONS ABOUT COASTAL SEDIMENT TRANSPORT
Available information indicates no unanimous opinion about the direction and quantity of the
littoral drift along the sand spit.
Local investigators suggest a north going sand drift of about 400,000 m3/yr. Partly this will be
based on littoral drift computations and partly on coastal behaviour near structures on the
coast.
Halcrow (1993) assumed a net southward sand drift, whereas experts of Delft Hydraulics
concluded during a site visit in September/October 1994 that a north going transport was
most likely, which was supported by littoral drift computations later on (1998). In their study
they concluded that the coastal behaviour at the outlet suggested that a southward littoral drift
took place in a period in the previous century, followed by a small north going transport later
on, at least after 1957. The small net longshore sand transport results from two opposing
gross contributions (i.e. in southern and northern direction), which can easily reach figures of
several hundreds of thousands of cubic meters per year (in each direction).
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-12                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                     H
HARRIS
In the present situation this means that the two coastal segments north and south of the
breakwater are more or less independent coastal systems. This means that there is hardly
any sand transport from the one segment to the other. For the south of the entrance this
means that the shoreline is rather stable. Due to the relatively large distance between the
waterline and the tip of the southern breakwater no significant quantities of sand are
deposited in the entrance channel. Or in other words: the sand remains in the coastal system,
the result being a stable coast.
North of the entrance, however, sediment that is transported in southward direction will be
deposited in the entrance channel. (The distance between the shoreline and the tip of the
northern breakwater is much smaller, due to the accretion that occurred from 1835 onwards.)
Quite relevant information for understanding the coastal behaviour are dredging data. Since
the outer channel is deepened by dredging, maintenance dredging was required to maintain
the design depth and width of the channel. It is mentioned that the annual maintenance
dredging did not exceed a volume of 100,000 m3 when the access channel was maintained at
a depth of 10 m. In the period after 1985 the maintenance of the channel (to a depth of 11.4
m) amounted to 150,000 - 200,000 m3/yr.
The dredged sediments were initially dumped close to the shore north of the outlet. Presently,
most of the spoil is dumped far from the shore (See also Section 4.7.2 Dredging and
disposal). A small part of the spoil consisting of clean sand from the marine sector of the
access channel is dumped closer to the shore north of the outlet in a water depth of about 20
m. At present the dredged material is deposited at a location from where it cannot return to
the coastal system. This means that the coastal system north of the entrance suffers from a
negative sand balance, which leads to the observed erosion. So, based on the above
analysis it seems that the observed erosion north of the entrance is not caused by a net
northward sediment transport, but by the fact that sand is regularly taken out of the coastal
system.
The largest shoreline retreat occurs at a few hundred metres north of the northern breakwater
(near the bunkers). This can be explained by considering the diffraction of waves from west
to southwestern directions.
4.3.4  Sediment transport Curonian lagoon - Baltic Sea
The lagoon area is a transitory basin for the fluvial and marine suspended matter. Depending
on hydrodynamics, bottom characteristics and particle size, part of suspended material is
accumulated within the lagoon, whereas the rest is transported to the sea.
The Nemunas river runoff is the most important source, which accounts for approximately
87% of the total amount of allochtonous material. The mean sedimentation ratio in the lagoon
is 3.2 mm per year.
Total annual seawater inflow volume is equal to the total lagoon volume, however the amount
of material transported by inflows accounts for only 1.6% of total sedimentary lagoon material.
Otherwise, nearly half of the total suspended matter entering the lagoon is transported to the
sea.
Sedimentary matter fluxes in the Klaipeda Strait have been evaluated on the basis of field
investigations (filtration of suspensions and sediment traps).
Concentration of suspensions in the Klaipeda Strait ranges between 3.5 and 58.8 mg/l. Near
the bottom sediment concentrations are higher than in the surface layer. Judging by the data
obtained from sediment trap studies very intensive sediment transport takes place in the
western passage of Curonian lagoon, and the port fairway. The intensity of sediment fluxes in
the close vicinities of harbour embankments and semi-enclosed bays is rather low. The most
J
H-7371   Drall Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-t3                 September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        9
HARRIS
intensive fluxes of sedimentary matter develop in the port gate aquatory (Figure 4-6).
Sediment transport is seasonally changeable and the most changes occur in autumn and,
sometimes, spring.
SEDIMENTATION IN HARBOUR AREAS
The accumulation of sedimentary matter in the Klaipeda Strait is closely related to the
frequency of changes in hydrological situation, resulting in alterations of water flow directions.
During most of the year seaward sediment fluxes prevail, but there are periods when water
flows are directed from the sea into the lagoon. Under the conditions of abrupt decrease in
water flow velocity, mass accumulation of transported material in local bottom areas may
occur. This phenomenon takes place in all seasons. Most intensive filling up of the port
aquatory takes place under the conditions of winds when marine sediments are transported
into the strait. Sometimes the thickness of the sediment layer exceeds 1 m in certain parts of
the aquatories.
g/cm2/day
2500
2000 -
1995
1500 
-U-1996
1000                                 -                                  -1997
Total
500
0
G-7 (*4                         G3 G_            I
Western passage of         Central part            Port gate
the Curonian Lagoon        of the strait           aquatory
Figure 4-6    Average data of sediment fluxes intensity in 1995-1997 alongside the
Klaipeda Strait
4.4  GEOLOGY, TOPOGRAPHY AND SEDIMENT CHARACTERISTICS
4.4.1   Geological history
HISTORIC DEPOSITS
Geological information shows that beneath recent sediments two types of deposits can be
found in the study area. These deposits were formed during the stages of the Baltic Sea
evolution, being mainly the Pleistocene and later on the Litorina stage of the Holocene.
The Pleistocene originated sediments are known as "glacial till" and consist of grey, dense
tills (loams, sandy loams), containing gravel, pebble and boulders. The glacial till layer
reaches a thickness of 40-60 m. The top of glacial deposits ranges from 9.2 - 15.8 m and
dips from the east to the west towards the Curonian spit. On top of the till, the younger glacial
deposits of the Litorina period are present. These sediments consist of sand enriched with
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-14                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
organic material and peat sublayers. These sand layers are 5 - 8 meters thick, but in some
local areas where excavations have been carried out, outcrops of clayey and sandy loams
(tills) occur.
RECENT DEPOSITS
The recent sediments in the Klalpeda Strait consist of lagoon and sea originated material.
The composition of recent sediments in the Klaipeda straits is not uniform, due to differences
in sedimentation and erosion processes and dredging activities.
In the central part of the Strait, where sediment transport occurs, the recent sediment layer
thickness is less than 20-30 cm. In the dredged parts of the Strait the accumulated silty
sediment layer thickness reaches 0.4 - 1.2 m. The highest variation in sediment layer
thickness observed, is in the port gates area and in the access channel where, after storm
events, up to 1 - 1.2 m thick sand layers can be formed.
4.4.2  Bed topography
The Curonian lagoon has a mean depth of 3.8 meters. In the southern region of the lagoon
the maximum depth reaches 5.8 meters.
The port area is dominated by depths of 7-12 m. The northern part and sea channel are the
deepest parts in the harbour. The sea channel depth varies in range from 12 - 13.2 m, while
the depths near the Oil terminal and KLASCO embankments reach 12 - 12.5 m. The
navigational channel to the "Bega" embankment also reaches 12-12.5 m. From this "Bega"
embankment southward the navigational route becomes shallower from 9.7 - 10.4 m to 8.2 -
8.7 meters. In the southern part of the port depths in the International Ferry manoeuvre circle
reach 8.8 - 10 meters, while in the mooring locations it even reaches 11 -12 meters. At Malku
bay depths of 9 - 10 meters are present.
At present the bathymetry of the port area is still subject to change. In 1998, deepening of the
sea channel and northern part of the port to -14 meters was started. At a later stage, other
parts of the port area, including the embankments from the port gates to the mouth of Dane
River and its embankments will be deepened to -14 meters as well. The "Bega" and
"Klaipedos Smelte" embankments will be deepened to -12 m, while the rest of the harbour
area will reach 10 m depth.
The sandy bottom of the coastal zone gradually slopes from zero at the beach to a depth of
50 meters some 30 kilometres offshore. Two kilometres offshore Klaipeda water depth is
approximately 15 meters.
4.4.3  Sediment characteristics
TYPES OF SEDIMENT
Sediment data received from the Institute of Geography and the Lithuanian Energy Institute
(1998) show that the foreshore of the beaches on both sides of the outlet consists of fine and
medium sand above the 10 m depth-contour (Figure 4-7). Medium sand is found above the 5
m depth-contour north of the outlet and only above a level close to Chart Datum south of the
outlet. Below the 10 m depth-contour and around the unprotected part of the access channel
at sea the sediments are finer, mostly sandy coarse silt.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-15                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                                        5
HARRIS
Inside the Klaipeda Strait, in the deep part of the harbour area the bottom mostly consists of
fine sand, silty sand and mud (Figure 4-8).
The dredged spoil of the harbour area consists of mud mostly originating from the lagoon and
fine sand originating from the coast.
The bottom  of the lagoon generally will consist of muddy deposits due to the absence  of
strong flow velocities and wave action.
7
,   .........................    ......
_ r ] f ~~~~~~~.......--.:.-.:,,,
I .,_ ,................................. .
KLA!PtDA
'  ' '     - I     D...................... .............
.~~~~~~.           .   .   t.  . 1  ... .: .   :--:.:- : -- . . ..  .   .
_ .   .   \.  . ,  . ,  .   .   . _ _ _ . .      . .
....         po.   entanc.chnne. 1-s'iltymudfine'-g                   ed,  2.- silty m u
coarse-grained  3 _     silt coarsegained  sa         , 4   s, 5
,, L_ .- . . .r ..sand  f     gied 6.-.sand. medium. grained
~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   _-...... ._.3   
~~~~~~~~... _..X.* 1e SIPD             .-.... .
~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . ....._. ...z
7 . 
- / ~~~~~~~......... ............................  .. ,
....~or entrance chne. 1 - sit  mdfn-rie, 2  -, sit     u
{, ~   ~     oas-rand ,,          - sitcas-rie              ad, 4.     - san    sity I   -
..~an  fin  grind  6 - 's'n- meiu    grie.'..   . 
The thickness of the soft surface sediments varies from a few centimetres inside the port
area to several meters in the access channel. Below the surface sediments a layer of glacial
till or "boulder clay" can be found. The several meters thick layer of boulder clay is very hard
(close to rock) with enclosures of stones, cobbles and boulders in varying degree of
incidence.
GRAIN-SIZE DISTRIBUTION
Grain-size composition of bottom sediments is given in Table 4-9. In the most dynamic areas
of the strait the peculiarities of grain-size distribution of bottom sediments have a seasonal
pattern. A periodical replacement of bottom sediments takes place in the fairway and western
passage of the Curonian lagoon where the types and grain-size composition of sediments
reflect the seasonal changes of current speeds. Under the maximal current velocities bottom
erosion occurs, whereas, when the current velocities slow down the silt material starts to
deposit. The most stable composition of bottom sediments is observed in the aquatories of
the central and southern embankments of the port and in closed bays where the
accumulation of thin dispersed matter takes place and silty-clayey mud develops.
H7371      Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment       4-16                                        September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                    9
HARRIS
.  ,  .  os_ . .    ....                            :
..-.; '.Xt
Figure 4-8  Types of surface sediments in the entrance channel and northern part of the port
area. 1 - silty mud fine-grained, 2 - silty mud coarse-grained, 3 - sand silty, 5 -
sand fine grained, 6 - sand medium grained.
Table 4-9
Average grain-size composition (%) of the bottom sediments prevailing in the aquatory of
__________________               the Klai eda port
_Type of bottom               Particle size, mm         _______
Sediments               >1.0              1.0-0.1           0.1-0.01          <0,01
Fine sand               0.78              93.35            5.87               -
Silty fine sand         0.32              75.40            23.65              0,63
Coarse silt             0.46              31.72             52.40             15,42
Fine silty mud          0.27              9.45             67.63              22,65
Tills                   3.37              20.22             48.24             28,17
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment  4-17                               September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      o
HARRIS
NORMS AND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR CONTAMINATED SEDIMENTS
The bottom sediments of the Klaipeda Strait are subdivided into four classes:
1. Non-contaminated sediments, i.e. sediments in which concentrations of chemical
elements do not exceed the background values, according to the separate lithological
types of the bottom sediments in the Curonian lagoon and the Baltic Sea.
2. Slightly contaminated sediments, i.e. sediments in which concentrations of chemical
elements exceed the background values, but do not exceed values, characteristic for
non-contaminated sediments (listed in the London Dumping Convention and other
classifications). Dumping of these sediments into the sea does not deteriorate the quality
of seawater and does not influence sea organisms toxicity.
3. Contaminated sediments, which may affect sea organisms but, nevertheless, their
dumping into the sea is permitted.
4. Highly contaminated sediments, which are potentially dangerous to sea organisms.
The limiting concentration values for the third and fourth classes were determined according
to the London Dumping Convention and data of other soil classification systems, as well as
estimated parameters of detected levels of contamination of the bottom sediments in
separate aquatories. Dredged sediments falling in the classes 1 and 2 may be dumped in the
sea or used for other purposes. Sediments falling in the classes 3 and 4 may only be dumped
in the sea in exceptional cases.
This classification system for bottom sediments is presented in the 'Rules of dredging and
cleaning of the Klaipeda port aquatory and sea channel and dumping of soils in the sea". The
class criteria are summarised in Table 4-10. The complete text of this document is included
as Appendix B to this report.
Table 4-10
Sediment classification system for dredging and disposal purposes in the Klaipeda region.
_ _ Sediment pollution classes according MCL of toxicants
Clas   Name    Concentration of pollutants (less than)
s               mg/kg
Cu      Pb     Zn       Ni     Cr      Hg      Cd    Hydro-
carbons
1     Clean       20      20     100     30      75      0.1      1    20
2     Little     100    100    200        50     100    0.5       3    100
polluted  ..
3
4          .     E                                                    I ;
LEVELS OF SEDIMENT CONTAMINATION IN THE STUDY AREA
For the investigations on sediment contamination in the study area reference is made to the
following sources:
1. The 1999 sediment investigations campaign in the outer part of the Klaipeda port area as
part of the Worldbank EIA and dredging study.
2. The 1997 sediment investigation campaign in the entire project area for the LEI study
(Kaunas, 1998).
3. The 1995 Haskoning report "Study on the dredging and disposal of contaminated
sediments, Klaipeda port, Lithuania".
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-18                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        m
HARRIS
The 1999 sediment investigations campaign in the outer part of the Klaipeda port area
as part of the Worldbank EIA and dredging study
As part of the Environmental Impact Assessment for the "Kiaipeda Port Entrance
Rehabilitation Project', a sediment quality assessment was been carried out in the outer part
of the Klaipeda port area. This is the area relevant for the dredging study forming part of this
Woridbank project. The aim  of this assessment was to assess the thickness and the
characteristics of the sediment layers present, including the nature, the concentration and
distribution of pollutants. Sampling consisted of both surface sampling and borings. Surface
sampling was carried out by a diver scooping a sample with a bucket. The borings for core
sampling were done with a diver operated pneumatic hammercorer with stationary piston.
The sampling results in the form of core descriptions are included as Appendix E
Sampling and sampling locations
In total 22 sediment cores were taken in the project area. The sampling locations are
indicated in Figure 4-9.
-  GPJORED~,                0      ~           '0
/                 .               0    i-
~~~~~~ '4-   -4- I6t.-+1t
-"jp{PhRAe2 ' 
X-ele51~~~~~~~~  *5^                        @   I4
KSAiPEA P              STAC?L
Figure 4-9: Sampling locations of the 1999 sediment investigations.
At the 11 encircled positions (10, 22, 11, 21, 9, 12, 20, 19, 8, 16, 18) only the grey hard till
was present as the surface sediment and no or only a few centimetres of soft sediments
were found. Consequently no samples from the encircled area were available for chemical
analyses.
At the other 11 locations a layer of fine to medium to coarse sand with occasionally
intrusions of blackish mud was found. From these cores 23 sub-samples were taken for
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-19                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        ff
HARRIS
The 1999 sediment investigations campaign in the outer part of the Klaipeda port area
as part of the Worldbank EIA and dredging study
As part of the Environmental Impact Assessment for the "Klaipeda Port Entrance
Rehabilitation Project", a sediment quality assessment was been carried out in the outer part
of the Klaipeda port area. This is the area relevant for the dredging study forming part of this
Worldbank project. The aim of this assessment was to assess the thickness and the
characteristics of the sediment layers present, including the nature, the concentration and
distribution of pollutants. Sampling consisted of both surface sampling and borings. Surface
sampling was carried out by a diver scooping a sample with a bucket. The borings for core
sampling were done with a diver operated pneumatic hammercorer with stationary piston.
The sampling results in the form of core descriptions are included as Appendix E
Sampling and sampling locations
In total 22 sediment cores were taken in the project area. The sampling locations are
indicated in Figure 4-9.
3 '.42'  la,                             .    42!                       V "
, / '. t ~~~I ''I-
1le  - 3                   'i .    -n/ .    .~~'                  .   
- ~~~~ ~~ (02s!9m t%oQ              I    
-8 ~  ~     ~      ~     '   1q*    S          S          SO>9         V
K>; PFPA Pr *rrANS, dE..t
9i75~~~~~~ ~~~OiIA/e~~~~~~~~%O
Figure 4-9: Sampling locations of the 1999 sediment investigations.
At the 11 encircled positions (10, 22, 11, 21, g, 12, 20, 19, 8, 16, 18) only the grey hard till
was present as the surface sediment and no or only a few centimetres of soft sediments
were found. Consequently no samples from the encircled area were available for chemical
analyses.
At the other 11 locations a layer of fine to medium to coarse sand with occasionally
intrusions of blackish mud was found. From these cores 23 sub-samples were taken for
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-19                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                            Na
HARRIS
laboratory analyses. In addition to grain size distribution and physical parameters like dry
matter contents and remains after heating at 600 C, the samples were analysed on the
pollutants like mineral oil, heavy metals, organochloro-pesticides, polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons (pah's) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's).
Based on the laboratory results, which are summarised in Table 4-1 1, it can be concluded
that all sampled sediments can be classified as clean sediments The results of the physical
and chemical laboratory testing are included as Appendix F.
Table 4-11
Sediment characteristics of bottom sediments in the World Bank dredging study area
Lab.                                Concentration, ppm, drv weight
Core    Depth [cm]   Sample  Sediment type       Cd    Cr    Cu    Pb        Hg      Ni    Zn      Mineral    PCs's       Sum
No.                                                                   _        oil                10 PAH's
BH1     0.00 - 0.60    1       Fine sand         <1    <10    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    18          <50       <0.001       <1
BH11    0.60 - 0.80    3       TILL              <1    22      15    <10   <0.3    14    46          <50      <0.001       <1
BH2     0.00 - 1.00    8       Fine sand         <1    14    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    26            <50      <0.001       <1
BH2     1.00 - 2.00    16      Fine sand         <1    <10   <10   <10   <0.3   <10    20            <50      <0.001       1.1
BH2     1.50 - 1.70    20      Muddy silt        1.2   45      22     17    <0.3    16    99        <500       <0.001      1.3
3H3    0o o 1.00      10       Fine sand         <1    <10   <10   <10   <0.3   <10    12            <50      <0.001       <1
sH3     1.10 - 2.60    18      Fine sand         <1    13    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    21            <50      <0.001      4.8
BH4     0.00 - 0.60    2       Fine - medium     <1   <10   <10   <10   <0.3   <10    16             <50      <0.001       <1
sand
BH4     0.60 - 1.65    4       Fine - medium     <1    11    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    18            <50      <0.001       <1
sand                      _
BH5     0.00 - 0.35    15      Fine sand         <1    16    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    18           <50       <0.001       <1
BHs     0.35 - 2.30    14      Fine sand         <1    <10   <10   <10   <0.3   <10    12            <50      <0.001       <1
BH6     0.00 - 1.30    12      Fine sand         <1    <10    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    14           <50      <0.001       <1
3H6     1.30 - 2.40    21      Fine sand         <1    12    <10    <10   <0.3   <10    22           <50      <0.001       <1
sH6     2.40 - 3.00    23      Coarse sand       <1    <10   <10   <10   <0.3   <10    16            <50      <0.001       <1
3H7     0.00- 1.00    9        Coarsesand         <1    <10   <10   <10   <0.3   <10    11           <50      <0.001       <1
sH7     1.00 - 2.60    17      Coarse sand        <1    <10    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    19          <50     <0.001        <1
BH13    0.00 - 1.40    13      Fine - medium      <1    <10   <10   <10   <0.3   <10    10          <50       <0.001       <1
sand                  I
BH13   1.40 - 2.60    22       Fine - medium      <1     10   < 10   <10   <0.3   <10    13          <50      <0.001       <1
sand                  I
BH14    0.00 - 0.90    5       Fine- medium       <1    <10   <10   <10   <0.3   <10    13           <50      <0.001       <1
sand
BH15    0.00 - 1.20    11      Fine - medium      <1    <10   <10   <10    <0.3   <10   <10          <50      <0.001       <1
sand                                                            _
BH15    1.20 - 2.10    19      Fine - medium      <1   <10    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    12           <50      <0.001       <1
sand
BH17    0.00 - 0.95    6       Fine sand          <1    <10    <10   <10   <0.3   <10    14         <50       <0.001       <1
BH17   0.95 -1.85    7         Fine - medium      <1    <10   <10   <10    <0.3   <10    1 7         <50      <0.001       <1
sand                     _       _
Bioavailability testing
Besides physical and chemical testing bioassay testing (bioavailability of pollutants) was
carried out on 9 surface samples (marked A to K in the above figure). Testing was not
possible on samples C (bottom completely covered with small and big boulders) and H
(solid till).
Whole sediment toxicity of the nine samples was assessed through 10-day exposures with
the amphipod, E. estuarius. The organisms, E. estuarius used in testing were 3-5 mm in
size. After ten days, E. estuarius exposed to the nine samples of sediment from Klaipeda,
did not show a statistically significant reduction in survival when compared to the survival of
organisms in the control. In accordance with the 1991 USEPA guidance for dredged
sediment testing projects, samples are considered toxic if survival of organisms exposed to
test sediment are at least 20% less than the survival observed in the reference sediment
and this difference is statistically significant after a ten-day test period. The results indicate
H7371     Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-20                                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            t
HARRIS
that sample I (in front of the oil terminal), is statistically significant when compared to the
control however, since survival in the sample was within 20% of the control it is not
considered toxic under USEPA guidelines. No other samples were statistically significant.
The testing results are summarised in Table 4-12. The full testing report is included as
Appendix G.
Table 4-12
Results of the toxicological testing of Kiaipeda sediments
10 - day Solid Phase Test. Species: E. estuarius
Samples    final count subsamples; initial live count: 20               % survival
1          2           3           4           5_ _ _
Control     20          20          20          20          19         99%
A           20          20          18          19          15         92%
B            17         20          17          20          17         91%
D            16         17          19          19          20         91%
E            16         17          20          18          20         91%
F           20          16          20          15          18         89%
G            17         20          19          20          19          95%
I            16         19          19          18          13           85%
J            20         19          18          18          20          95%
K            19         19          20          20          19         97%
1) Surface sediment I has a statistically significantly lower survival percentage than the control.
The results mean there is no restriction required with respect to either beneficial usage or
disposal of the sediments originating from this area.
The 1997 sediment investigation campaign in the entire project area for the LEI study
(Kaunas, 1998).
In the period 1997 - 1998, sediment investigations were carried out by the Lithuanian Energy
Institute as part of the "dredging of Klaipeda Harbour entrance Channel and the northern part
of the water territory up to - 14 m".
Ten bottom samples were taken in the coastal area in the direct vicinity of the Port. In this
area the bottom sediments mostly consist of sandy sediments. The samples have been
analysed for the presence of heavy metals, mineral oil and PAH (Polycyclic Aromatic
Hydrocarbons. The laboratory results are presented in Table 4-13. For the colour indication
reference is made to the classification system presented in Table 4-10.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-21                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      9
HARRIS
Table 4-13
Concentration of chemical ingredients in the surface layer (0-5 cm) of bottom sediments in
the Baltic Sea nearshore (1997 May-June)
.    .                         Concentration [mg/kg]              Concentration
Station   Sediment                    C            [                     [pg/kg]
number  type                   Cu_  Pb    Zn    Ni    Cr    HC'  PAH's
1       Sand medium grained    4.0   7.5   15.2  3.2   5.1    0.5    4
2        Sand fine grained     4.8   9.5   16.4  6.    7.7    0.6  1
3        Mud silty coarse grained   17.4  24.5  76.6  25.6  38.5   40.0  20
4        Sand fine grained silty    5.8   10.6  17.4  7.8   9.1    2.0    11
5        Mud silty fine grained  21.4  26.8  95.4  32.1   44.2   90.4  30
6        Sand medium grained   4.2    8.3   15.7  3.6   5.3    0.8    6
7        Sand fine grained     4.5    10.2  16.2  6.5   7.3    1.1    5
8        Sand fine grained silty    5.3   10.2  16.8  7.4    9.4    1.5    8
9        Silt coarse sandy     5.7   10.7  19.0  9.1    10.4   1.9    10
10      Sand fine grained silty    5.1    10.2  16.5  7.0   8.2    1.4    9
1) HC= Mineral oil
In addition, 54 samples have been taken in Klaipeda Port in the direct vicinity of the port up
to the Dane River (Figure 4-10). In this area the bottom sediment mostly consists of silty
sand and sandy silt. The samples have been analysed on heavy metals, mineral oil and
PAH (Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons). The laboratory results are presented in Table 4-
14. For the colour indication reference is made to the classification system presented in
Table 4-10.
Based on the laboratory
results,  it  can   be
concluded    that   the
samples  taken  in  the
Baltic Sea nearshore are i
clean  or  only  slightly
contaminated.  However
practically all the samplesI
from the bottom entrance 
and the northern part of               4 .3
the Klaipeda port area are 
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
classified polluted (class
3)  on  the  basis  of                              2
hydrocarbons  and  the
heavy metal Nickel.
Sediments falling in the
classes 3 and 4 may only
be  dumped  at sea  in
exceptional cases.
Figure 4.1 0: Sampling
locations 54 samples LEI                                          42
study.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-22                   September 1 999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                         m
HARRIS
Table 4-14
Concentration of chemical ingredients in the surface layer (0-5 cm) of bottom sediments in
the entrance channel and northern part of the Klaipeda port area (1997 May-June)
Station    Sediment              Concentration [mg/kg]                                       C/k
number    type                   Cu        Pb       Zn        Ni       Cr        HC        PAH's
1          Sand fine grained silty   20.3  20.2     68.2      40.8     54.8
2          Sand fine grained silty   21.4  19.4     69.7      38.5     58.0
3          Sand fine grained silty   22.6  23.8     78.6      33.2     65.2
4        1 Sand fine grained silty   19.8  22.2     72.2      30.8     55.4
5          Sand fine grained silty   18.6  22.4     67.8      32.2     56.1
6          Sand fine grained silty   16.8  18.4     58.2      28.3     48.4
7          Sand fine grained silty   16.2  19.7     56.4      28.4     55.6
8          Sand fine grained silty   18.9  23.7     73.7      35.9     56.7
9          Sand fine grained silty   20.4  24.0      75.4     40.2     55.2
10         Sand fine grained silty   22.3  24.8     78.3      44.2     59.8
11         Mud coarse silty      19.4      23.2     90.7      38.7     40.1
12         Sand fine grained silty  _18.9  _123.8   78.8  _  30.7      47.3
13         Sand fine grained     13.8      16.1     56.1      18.6     47.6      30.4     | 1
14         Sand fine grained silty   17.5  21.7     62.3      25.2     44.2
15         Sand fine grained     12.3      13.6     54.7      19.8     44.1      30.8      10
16         Sand fine grained     14.4      15.2     54.5      18.5     43.8      33.2      13
17         Sand fine grained silty   18.5  22.4     74.2      30.4     45.6
18         Sand fine grained     12.9      15.7     46.3      19.4     38.4      28.6      9
19         Mud coarse silty      24.6      22.7    | 88.4     43.8    I 38.4     242
20         Sand fine grained silty   17.2    1 19.8  69.4     30.4     39.7
21         Sand fine grained silty   16.4  18.9      69.8     25.8      45.2
22         Sand fine grained      14.1 6 16.4        48.7    | 18.6     47.3     27.8      lo
|23         Sand fine grained      10.9     17.3      55.4     20.1      49.2     29.8       10
24         Sand fine grained      14.8     19.6      48.7     19.2      48.4     35.7       14
25         Mud coarse silty       20.8     17.4      81.5     39.8     39.2
26         Mud fine silty         19.7     21.4      92.0     32.8     27.7                94
27         Mud fine silty         18.1     20.9      87.3     30.5     28.9    -
28         Sandfine grained silty   15.6   17.5  _  65.8      20.8     35.7
|29         Sand fine grained      11.4    | 18.7     42.4     16.8      42.3     28.4     | 1
30         Mud coarse silty       21.9    | 15.8     76.1     37.5     35.7         __
31         Sand fine grained      7.2     | 15.8     42.2     19.7      18.4     24.4       10
32         Mud coarse silty       17.7     18.7      78.9     38.4     32.8
33         Sand fine pgraed       6.8      14.2      45.4     18.6     24.7      19.8      9
34         Sand fine grained     6.9       17.1      37.0    |12.6               19.2     1 8
35         Sand fine grained      5.3      14.4    | 34.3     20.9      16.2    9234       9
36         Sandfinearained        5.8      11.7     29.8      14.2     20.4      19.5      8
37         Sand fine rained silty   13.8   15.0      52.2     18.7     38.4
38         Sand fine grained silty   14.3  15.2      66.7     15.8     36.6
39         Mud fine silty         28.4     31.1      142.7
40         Sand fine grained silty1 25.7   24.3      96.8
41         Mud coarse silty       26.8     27.2      127.4 
42         Mud coarse silty       23.5     24.5      121.8    49.8    | 50.2
43         Mud coarse silty      27.8    128.7       126.2      _ 
44         Sand medium grained    15.7     19.4     61.2    |20.4        37.4    | 58      20
45         Mud fine silty         29.5     30.4      130.1
46         Mud coarse silty       24.1     25.7      108.5    48.6     46.2
47         Mud coarse silty       22.8     25.8      112.6    43.6     47.2
48         Mud coarse silty       25.6     24.2      114.8
49         Mud coarse silty       23.8     22.9      105.4    48,9    | 49.2
50         Mud fine silty         27.8     28.7      126.3   |  
51         Mud fine silty        26.1      27.8      125.0
52         Mud fine silty         27.4     26.9      127.5
53         Mud coarse silty      20.2      23.8      106.4   | 46.2    | 44.8
4           Mud fine silty        26.3      25.6    L 129.5   _
1) HC= Mineral oil
H7371     Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment  4-23                                   September 1999



Kialpeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                   M
HARRIS
The 1995 Haskoning report "Study on the dredging and disposal of contaminated
sediments, Klaipeda port, Lithuania".
In 1995, HASKONING (Royal Dutch Consulting Engineers and Architects) executed a "Study
on the dredging and disposal of contaminated sediments, Klaipeda Port, Lithuania". Volume 1
(Inventory of existing data, by courtesy of HASKONING) included some data on levels of
sediment contamination in the port.
Essentially th'le report iocuses on the contamination and cleaninn of Malku bay. However, in
Annex 19 of Volume 1 "sampling locations, analyses results and soil stability properties of
sediments in other parts of the Klaipeda port" are presented. The inventory is based on 175
samples in the entire port, not specifying in further detail the exact locations of these
samples. In Table 4-15 average concentrations of heavy metals and hydrocarbons are
presented (up to the Dane River).
Table 4-15
Concentration of heavy metals and hydrocarbons (HC) in the bottom sediments of the
Klaipeda port aquatory (175 samples)
Aquatory                              Concentration (mg/kq
Sediment Cu   Pb   Zn   Ni   Cr   Hg   Cd   HC
= . _     =_ == _ ___ ty_ typ
Bar entrance channel  smiS     2.0   4.2  5.0   1.2  20.0  0.06  <0.5  3.8
Ships swinging area   ssmS     5.0  9.1   22.5  17.0  39.0  0.07  <0.5  6.2
Innerroad            AsmS    5.7  5.8  29.0  19.0  48.0  0.11  1.2   13.2
SstA     17.0  7.5  55.0  25.0  53.0  0.16         39.2
SstA     9.6  10.1  36.5  10.1  39.4  0.12  2.1   63.0
Embankments 8-12     SstA      10.0        36.0  11.0  48.0  0.12  1.1   43.0
of KLASCO terminal   |_ l_l_l                               ___
Winterport of KLASCO5 smA      30.0        1.9  18.0  76.0  0.18  2.8
terminal
Entrance channel of    AsmS    23.7  15.7  60.0  11.0  65.0  0.15  1.0   8.2
Smelte port _                                         _____
Dane river mouth     AsmS    30.0          70.0  10.0  45.0  0.19  1.3   36.4
Again the classification system of Table 4-10 has been applied.
Summary on sediment quality
As has been demonstrated at many other contaminated sediment sites world-wide, the
results of these investigations showed a direct relationship between the percentage of fine
particles (< 0.063 mm) and the level of pollution. The more fine particles the higher the level
of pollution. Consequently the types of sediment (based on composition and grain size)
present in the study area can be linked to a level of contamination and zones with different
levels of contamination can be assessed. Following the classification of the bottom sediment
contamination as presented in Table 4-10, areas with class 1, 2 and 3 type contaminated
sediments were identified in the study area.
The surface sediments in the approaches to the Klaipeda port entrance up to oil terminal 2,
which is the World Bank dredging study area (seawards from gridline 27), comprise only
clean or slightly contaminated sediments. No restriction is required in relation to disposal or
beneficial use of these sediments from a contamination point of view.
The remaining surface sediments falling under this Worldbank EIA, present in the area
stretching from oil terminal 2 up to the Dane river comprise class 3 contaminated sediments.
The class 3 type sediments can be found practically all over the area. As sampling has been
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-24                September 1999



Kiaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      a
HARRIS
limited to the top 5 cm surface layer of the bottom, quantification of the total volume of
contaminated sediment is not possible. According Lithuanian regulations these sediments
can only be dumped at sea in exceptional cases.
In other parts of the port (outside the scope of this EIA) several locations can be found
containing class 3 or class 4 contaminated sediments.
Based on the geophysical and bathymetrical investigations as carried out by the Research
Institute "Geoprojektas", and the - 14 m design level, it is clear that in a part of the dredging
area also hard glacial till is to be dredged. The glacial till is of historic origin and is not
contaminated.
4.5    WATER CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BALTIC SEA, KLAIPEDA STRAIT,
CURONIAN LAGOON
The Curonian Lagoon is characterised by the intensive water exchange with the Baltic Sea.
The water is constantly moving either towards the sea (80 % of cases) or to the lagoon.
The hydro-chemical regime of the lagoon and the Klaipeda Strait is affected by several
factors: river and sea inflow, municipal wastewater and shipping. The hydro-chemical regime
of the coastal waters is affected by the outflow of fresh water from the lagoon.
4.5.1   Water temperature
Water temperature fluctuations in the northern part of the Curonian lagoon depend on air
masses advection, solar radiation and river inflows. The temperature regime in the well-mixed
lagoon shows no significant variation between open and littoral parts. Some vertical gradients
form only during short periods of calm weather. The temperature of the coastal Baltic Sea
waters also depends on solar radiation, air masses advection and lateral water transport.
During warm seasons the upper water layer is nearly homogeneous due to wind action. The
exception is when east and north winds blow the warmed coastal waters into the open sea
causing cold deep-water upwelling. The deep-sea layers have nearly constant temperature.
During winter the temperature of the enclosed lagoon is nearly uniform around 0 0C, and only
in the harbour area the temperature is higher (0.1-0.4 C) due to warmer seawater advection.
The warming of the lagoon normally starts in April when the ice cover melts and air
temperature reaches 8.0-10.0 0C. The highest temperature in lagoon is recorded in the mid-
summer period when water temperatures reach 16.0-21.0 C, water temperature in the
Klaipeda strait will be 2.0-3.0 OC colder, due to seawater inflow. In the Baltic Sea maximum
upper layer temperature reaches 18.0-20.0 OC in August. Winter and spring temperature
depends on winter yearly variations reaching 5.0-7.0 0C. During springtime the coastal waters
in the vicinity of the Port entrance are affected by the outflow of warmer waters from the
lagoon (10.0-11.0 0C). In autumn seawater is well mixed due to storm events.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-25                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            
HARRIS
4.5.2   Oxygen levels
Dissolved oxygen concentrations in the Curonian lagoon vary depending on the time of the
year.
In spring, when the temperature is still low and photosynthetic activity is high, the water is
saturated up to 170% of oxygen in the central part of the lagoon and even in the polluted
Malku bay oxygen levels still reach 78% saturation.
During summer time oxygen saturation decreases, but critical concentrations were observed
only in the harbour area. In the Malku bay bottom layer it drops to 3.7 mg/I, which equals 41%
of saturation. Some oxygen depletion also occurs in the harbour area near the main city
sewer. The situation during autumn is more or less similar showing lowest oxygen values
near the sewer and Malku bay. During wintertime no oxygen depletion was observed.
In the Baltic Sea the maximum oxygen concentrations in the photosynthetically productive
layer in the open sea reach 16 mg/I while in the nearshore area they reach 13-14 mg/l. This
means that the oxygen saturation levels are 113-115 %.
4.5.3   Background turbidity levels
Turbidity is used as a measure of the "clarity" or "cloudiness" of a liquid. It is defined as a
reduction of transparency caused by the presence of undissolved matter. It gives a good
indication of the appearance of a water in an aesthetic sense, but it is also an indicator of the
amount of suspended material. It is essentially an optical parameter and can be measured in
a number of ways, ranging from the relatively simple Secchi disk to electronic turbidimeters.
Suspended matter or suspended sediment is related to the weight of the solids in water and
as such it is not the same as turbidity. However, the two are interrelated and for a specific
site a relationship between the two can be established.
Background natural turbidity levels are determined by the development of plankton organisms
as well as by wind induced resuspension events, which are especially important in the shallow
Curonian lagoon areas. Sediment-rich river water inflow also influences turbidity levels. Both
in the lagoon and Klaipeda strait the turbidity levels show obvious seasonal variation (Table
4-16). Increasing wave heights in the lagoon will result in increased levels of resuspended
sediments and consequently reduced transparency. This relationship is presented in Table 4-
17.
Table 4-16
Seasonal variation in water transparency, Seki disk depth
Area                    Spring     Summer    Autumn         Winter
Klaipeda strait         0.8        1.0          1.3         1.3
Lagoon, northern part   0.9        0.7          1.1
Lagoon, central part    0.8        0.8          0.7         0.6
Table 4-17
Wave climate influence on water transparency
Wave heiqht, m        Transparency, H. m
< 0.25                1.5-2.7
0.25                  1.0-1.4
0.50                  0.8-1.0
0.75                  0.4-0.8
1.00                  0.2-0.3
1.20                  0.2
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-26                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        o
HARRIS
Suspended sediment fluxes in the Klaipeda Strait have been repeatedly evaluated on the
basis of water samples (Pustelnikovas, 1983, Galkus, 1995). Suspended matter
concentrations in the Klaipeda Strait range between 3.5 and 58.8 mg/l (Table 4-18). Near the
bottom the concentrations are higher than in the surface layer.
Table 4-18
Seasonal changes of suspended matter in the Klaipeda Strait during 1994-1996
Average concentrations, mg/l    Ranges, mg/l
Year       Month       Surface     Near bottom   Total water  all depths
water      layer          column
1994       November  7.8           -              -            6.7-10.2
1995       February    10.7        15.0           12.8         4.3-28.7
April       23.2        22.8          23.0          16.0-38.9
May        22.6         28.8          25.7         21.0-36.0
July        16.8        20.9          18.8          10.0-30.4
December  7.4          9.4            8.4          3.5-15.5
1996       May         27.8        33.3           30.5         15.5-45.0
July        9.6         14.1           11.9         8.0-22.0
October    22.2         36.9          29.5         6.8-58.8
Average 1994-1996      16.3        22.9           19.1         3.5-58.8
A considerable decrease of suspended matter levels takes place in the nearshore zone near
the Klaipeda Strait mouth. This is the unloading area of sedimentary matter flows from the
Curonian lagoon. Previous investigations revealed that concentrations of suspensions in the
nearshore waters decrease to 2.4-21.8 mg/I (average 9.2 mg/I), while in the Klaipeda Strait
they reach levels of tens of mg/I. Approximately 85% of the suspended matter is composed of
particles larger than 0.01 mm in diameter. The largest part of it consists of detritus. Of the
suspended matter, sediment particles make up about 23% in the surface layer, to 40% in the
near-bottom layer.
In the access channel to the port, which can be seen as a continuation in the sea of the
Klaipeda Strait, the outflow of suspended matter can easily be traced to a depth of 20 -25 m.
The main mass of sedimentary matter migrates in the western and northwestern direction. To
the south from the southern jetty the concentration exceeding 5.0 mg/l in the near-bottom
layer occupies only a narrow strip of the nearshore till a depth of 5-13 m.
In the greatest part of the underwater shore slope the concentrations of suspended matter in
the near-bottom layer usually range from 3 - 5 mg/l. In only a few areas concentration values
below 3 mg/I stand out on this background. These areas almost coincide with the outcrops of
till deposits affected by the processes of recent bottom erosion. It is to be noted that the
given marine turbidity levels are related to measurements under calm weather conditions. No
data are available for suspended matter levels during stormy weather conditions.
4.5.4  Salinity
Salinity is a measure of the mass of dissolved salts. It reflects the relative proportions of
freshwater and seawater and is an important habitat descriptor. Salinity is usually measured
in "practical salinity units" (PSU), which are nearly identical to parts per thousand (3O/6 or ppt).
Salinity of the Atlantic Ocean is approximately 35%.. The Baltic Sea is more brackish, with
decreasing salinity from the west to the east and from the south to the north.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-27                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         9
HARRIS
Salinity levels in the coastal waters near Klaipeda depend on fresh water outflow from the
Curonian lagoon (Figure 4-11). The average summer salinity levels range between 5.0 and
7.0/., which could drop to 4.6/^ due to the above reason.
Depending  on  wind  speed  and  direction,
intensity of the lagoon's outflow and water level                   RPaangs
fluctuations, the  salinity  conditions  in the
Klaipeda Strait and the northern parts of the
lagoon can change rapidly, ranging from  the
mesohaline >6.5 PSU) to fully limnic (<0.5                          ilaip.da
PSU).
According to long term monitoring data it can be
stated that salt-water intrusion into the lagoon
strongly varies, but the sea always influences
the Klaipeda strait. In the winter salt water could        Juodkran te    Drc',^ra
penetrate 20 or even 50 km north in the lagoon
(0.06%o  near Nida). During  calm  weather
periods in the summer, salt water penetrates in
the Klaipeda strait reaching 3.8%o.
The  biggest salt-water  intrusions  normally
happen  during  autumn  reaching  even  the               Nida
central part of the lagoon while in the Klaipeda
strait  salinity  exceeds  4.0%o.  Seawater   Figure 4-11    River water outflow to the
intrusions are usually of a short duration. In 78            Baltic Sea. Color intensity
% of the cases they do not exceed 2 days. In                 outside lagoon shows
1977 the strongest salt water intrusion event                salinity gradient from 2
since 1954 occurred. In September of that year               (darkest) to 7 (white)
fresh water was left only in the Nemunas and                 PsU(
Minija rivers mouths, while near Juodkrante
salinity levels reached 5.0-6.0 /.
However, strong salt-water intrusions can also occur in summer, when a low water level in the
lagoon is observed. The salinity stratification in the lagoon (meaning that the surface layer is
occupied by the outflow of the lagoon's water, while the sea water is entering as a near
bottom layer) is unstable.
4.5.5   Pollution
Two types of pollution can be distinguished in the study area, being pollution caused by
nutrients and pollution caused by heavy metals and organic chemicals.
Most of the nutrients are transported to the lagoon through the 937 km (475 in Lithuania)
Nemunas River. This river carries municipal, industrial and agricultural pollution from the
1000458 km2 area of the Nemunas river basin. The annual nutrient dynamics in the lagoon
depend on its biological cycles. Increased nutrient concentrations are also recorded for the
area near the main Klaipeda sewer. As a consequence of the load of nutrients, both the
lagoon and harbour area are very eutrophicated.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-28                    September 1999
H7371    Draft Final Environmental lmDact Assessment    4-28                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
Besides the load of heavy metal and organic chemical pollution brought to the area by the
upstream rivers, several local sources can be identified:
*  discharge of municipal and industrial waste water (city sewers, shipyards, oil industry,
ships)
*  rainwater runoff from industrial sites in the port
*  accidental spills
*  the contaminated sediments present in the Port area, which once formed start to act as a
source itself (especially in Malku Bay, but also at the Klasco commercial port, the
Klaipeda Ship repair yard, the bays of the second ferry link, the paper mill enterprise, the
rail ferries swinging place, Smelte port and the Dane river mouth).
The average oil hydrocarbons concentration in the lagoon reaches 0.03 mg/I. Bottom
sediments are also slightly polluted: in the Klaipeda Strait near 42.7 mg/kgws, near the Paper
Mill 41.2 mg/kgws. Oil hydrocarbon concentrations could increase rapidly during oil spills,
which is not uncommon in a harbour. Other organic chemicals detected in the waters and
sediments of the study area include chlororganic pesticides, detergents, and phenols.
Mercury (Hg) concentrations in the lagoon are rather low. Some higher Hg concentrations
were found in the bottom sediments in the Malku bay near the city sewer. During last years
Hg concentrations in the Baltic Sea has tendency to decrease. The average Hg concentration
in the seawater is 0.03 mg/I.
The Hg concentration in the bottom sediments also has the tendency to decrease with a
present average of 0.06 mg/kgws.
Other heavy metals like tin, lead, cadmium and copper were also found in the bottom
sediments. For more information on sediment contamination reference is made to Section
4.3 of this report.
The outflow from the Curonian lagoon also carries contaminants and nutrients to the Baltic
Sea. When entering the sea, this water penetrates up to 12 miles west and, due to the
dominating currents, up to 50 km north.
In the sea the existing disposal sites for dredged sediments can also be seen as a source for
sea water contamination, as not only clean sediments have been dumped at these areas. In
the Baltic Sea, the highest levels of hydrocarbon contamination in water and bottom samples
can be found near the dumping areas.
4.6    ECOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS
4.6.1   Baltic Sea marine ecology
The Klaipeda strait area and marine aquatory contain pure communities of soft bottom
invertebrates and are almost devoid of benthic vegetation. Only in the deeper areas (10 - 20
meters) on a stony bottom rather abundant filtration feeders (blue mussel (Mytilus edulis) and
barnacle (Balanus improvisus)) occur. Otherwise the region is of great importance as
migration route of spawning migration for salmon (Salmo salar), sea trout (Salmo trutta
trutta), smelt (Osmerus eperlanus), vimba (Vimba vimba) and other. Freshwater fishes from
the lagoon migrate to the neighbouring sea areas for feeding on benthic animals.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-29                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      m
HARRIS
TYPES OF HABITAT AND KEY SPECIES
The sea area, neighbouring the outlet of the Curonian lagoon is characterised by permanent
influence of winds, waves and water currents, which produces a very hydrodynamically active
environment. Therefore there is no oxygen deficiency and no oxygen based gradients in the
distribution of bottom biota, as occurs in the offshore deeper areas. The main physical
factors, which determine the local scale distribution of benthic biotopes and bottom
communities include bottom substrate, waves effect, light conditions and desalinating effect
from the lagoon outflow. The main types of bottom biotopes in the area under consideration
are listed below:
* An exposed sandy beach (on sites with admixture of gravel and pebbles) swashed by
waves and flooded by water during storms, often with swells of decomposing macroalgae.
No macrofauna and flora is present except scarce specimens of the air breathing
amphipod Talorchestia deshayesii, but interstitial meiofauna occurs in the lower wet
sections.
* A narrow depression of 0.5-1.5 m depth made by bores along the sandy beach face in
the uppermost part of the submarine slope. In summer time it contains mats of floating,
partly decomposing macroalgae (mostly filamentous greens with admixture of red algae
Furcellaria lumbricalis), which are densely inhabited by amphipods Gammarus and
Bathyporeia.
* Sands, movable by waves and currents from 1 to 5 m depth. Inhabited by mobile
burrowing amphipods (Bathyporeia and Corophium species), shrimps (Crangon) and
mysid shrimps (Neomysis and Mysis), the tube dwelling polychaete Pygospio elegans and
infaunal "borrowers" (oligochaetes, polychaetes Nereis diversicolor and Marenzelleria
viridis) as well as fish fry. The bottom animal community consists of 1 to 4 species with
total abundance of 300 - 6000 ind./m2 and biomass of 0.6 - 4.3 g/m2.
* Stony bottoms at the depth from approx. 8-10 m to 20-25 m with dense aggregations of
stationary epifaunal suspension feeders, the blue mussel Mytilus edulis and the barnacle
Balanus improvisus, colonies of hydrozoan Cordylophora caspia and single specimens of
the red algae Ceramium rubrum (occurs down to 20 m). The bottom animal community
comprises up to 50 species in total and is characterised by very high biomass (up to
1747 g/m2) and abundance (48000 ind./m2). This community functions as a biofilter,
cleaning and lightening the water.
* Sand and coarse aleurite bottoms on sites with admixture of mud at the depth from 5 m
to 30 m (beneath the most intensive wave action zone) with the bivalve molluscs
Macoma balthica and Mya arenaria, polychaetes Pygospio elegans and Nereis
diversicolor, amphipod Corophium volutator. Usually the community consists of 8-10
bottom macrofauna species, its abundance as well as biomass vary in a wide range
(1000 - 7000 ind./m2 and 100 - 600 g/m2). This is the most widely distributed bottom
community throughout the area, serving the important feeding ground for benthofagous
fish of both marine and freshwater origin.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental impact Assessment   4-30                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        9
HARRIS
W ~I# I
Figure 4-12 Underwater biotops near Lithuanian Baltic coast
UNDERWATER HABITATS OF THE KLAIPEDA PORT BREAKWATERS
Underwater biological surveys undertaken in 1995-1997 (Figure 4-13) have shown that the
breakwaters' boulders, concrete blocks and tetrapods form plentiful artificial habitats for
benthic algae, invertebrates and fish. The stones are covered almost totally by dense
canopies of fucoid brown algae Pilayella sp. from the water surface down to 1.5 - 2 m depth
and by green algae Cladophora sp. in the depth range 2-4 m. Deeper, at the depth interval of
4-6 m the outer, exposed surfaces of stones are nearly free of fouling, here only sparse
specimens of the green algae and the barnacle B. improvisus occur. Colonies of the blue
mussel together with associated fauna are found at the inner, sheltered surfaces of stones.
Beneath 6 m the bottom is sandy with typical Macoma community. There is obvious
difference between communities inside and outside the breakwaters. The richest community
is outside the southern breakwater, not influenced by the lagoon outflow, while inside the
breakwaters epilithic communities are poor due to constant salinity and water quality
changes.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-31                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
&~34
N                                                                    1
s ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~            ~    ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. . . . . ,,  . .. .1.
Figure 4-13    Underwater survey of the Klaipeda port breakwaters. 1 - concrete
blocks and tetrapods, potentially suitable for the Baltic herring spawning grounds;
2 - approximate isobaths; 3 - SCUBA divers observation sites, incl. underwater
photo and sampling; 4 - sampling
ZOOPLANKTON
The species composition, community structure and abundance of the zooplankton depend on
the water mass and the season: for instance, the crustacean zooplankton usually is most
abundant in July - August when the Curonian Lagoon waters prevail in Klaipeda Straight. In
Table 4-19 the zooplankton species are listed including the highest values of abundance in
the study area. Due to their abundance these organisms have a great possibility to become a
"hot spot" organisms in ballast waters.
Two of the indicated organisms, the polychaete Marenzelleria viridis and the zebra mussel
Dreissena polymorpha have shown a great invasive potential; during some periods their
plankton larvae are the dominant group of the zooplankton in the Klaipeda harbour area.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-32                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        a
HARRIS
Table 4-19
Most abundant species and taxonomic groups of zooplankton in the Klaipeda harbour area
during 1995-1997
Most abundant species and taxonomic groups       Max. densities
ths ind./ m3
Freshwater zooplankton
Daphnia longispina                               39.8
Chydorus sphaericus                              145.9
Leptodora kindti                                 2.3
Mesocyclops leuckarti                            48.1
Keratella sp.                                    120.1
Brachionus sp.                                   254.2
Dreissena polymorpha larvae                      106.1
Marine zooplankton
Acartia bifilosa                                 21.7
Marenzelleria viridis larvae                     520.0
FISH SPECIES
The important commercially exploited fish species in the Baltic Sea in terms of abundance
are the demersal (live in, on , or near the bottom of the sea) species cod and flounder, the
pelagic (in water column) species herring and sprat, the anadromous (migrating from sea to
fresh water) species salmon and the catadromous (migrating from fresh water to the sea)
species eel. In addition, a number of other species, including several flatfish species, are also
exploited. In total some 30 different species of fish are caught in the Baltic Sea. Specific
information on fish species caught in the Lithuanian coastal zone is given in section 4.7.6
(fisheries) of this report.
SPAWNING AREAS
The whole study area is practically free of natural spawning grounds for commercial fish.
However, the breakwaters serve as artificial spawning grounds for the herring (Figure.4-14 a
and b) For instance in April 1995, the mean density of fish roe deposited on the concrete
blocks and tetrapods was 2 mln ind./m2; the maximum (14 min ind./m2) was found at the
depth of 0.8 m in the central part of the southern breakwater. The laboratory analysis have
shown that approx. 95 % of roes were healthy at least at the moment of sampling. The field
observations also showed that the northern breakwater is less suitable for spawning.
Before the spawning time (May - June) big numbers of turbot spent their time in the study
area. The precise numbers, however, are not available.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-33                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                       HARRIS
25 m
_QS~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Deph (m)
MHerr.ng rawv
Figure. 4-14a  Spawning of the Baltic herring Clupea harrengus membras at the concrete
blocks of the Klaipeda port southern breakwater,300 m from the beach (April, 1995).
L      _  ;ql$>  ~~~~~ Depth,m
1                   o0
~~~~~~~ ~~3
20m                           6
FAX raw on the concrete blocks
Figure. 4-14b  Spawning of the Baltic herring Clupea harrengus membras at the concrete
blocks of the Klaipeda port southern breakwater, head part: location of dense layer of roe
(April 26, 1995).
MIGRATION ROUTES AND TIMING
Both anadromic and catadromic migrations take place in the Klaipeda strait. In this respect
the areas near the end of the strait (5-7 km up to and including the breakwaters) are very
important. Direct information on the concrete time of migration across the strait for each
species is not available. All assumptions are based on fish catches data from the strait, the
sea and the lagoon.
In general, fish migrations across the strait take place throughout the year. The most
important migratory species, which have spawning migrations across Klaipeda strait, are:
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-34                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        9
HARRIS
1. Salmon (Salmo salar L.), Red Book, rare species, (the migration of reproducers - July -
December, smolts - April - June)
2. Sea Trout (Salmo trutta L.), Red Book, rare species, ( the migration of reproducers - July
- December, smolts - April - June),
3. Twaite shad (Alosa falax L.), Red Book, rare species (the migration of reproducers -
during the spring months ),
4. Sea lamprey (Petromyzon marinus L.), Red Book, rare species (no data available),
5. Sturgeon (Acipencer sturio L.), Red Book, rare species, may be disappeared species, (no
data available),
6. Whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus L.), rare commercial species (the migration of
reproducers -October - January),
7. Vimba (Vimba vimba L.) rare protected species (the migration of reproducers -October -
April),
8. Smelt (Osmerus eperlanus L.), migratory commercial species (the migration of
reproducers -October - March),
9. Eel (Anguilla anguilla L.), migratory commercial species(the migration of reproducers -
May - July),
10. Lamprey (Lampetra fluviatilis L.), migratory commercial species (the migration of
reproducers -October - April).
The feeding migrations of other fish species (bream, pikeperch, perch, flounder, herring,
three-spined stickleback and others) also take place. The timing of all migrations shows year-
to-year variations.
In the Coastal Zone seasonal, spawning or feeding migration take place too: spawning
migration of herring - April-June, turbot pre-spawning migration - April -June, feeding
migrations of juveniles of different species, etc.
POLLUTION
Evidently the sea areas around the port of Klaipeda are influenced by eutrophic lagoon water
and port wastes. However, it is extremely difficult to estimate the antropogenic part of waste
in the rather complicated (hidrologically and ecologically) system of the Klaipeda strait and the
Baltic Sea aquatory. In this respect it is to be noted that due to the many years that this
situation exists, most of the animal and plant species in the area are tolerant to polluted
waters, as well as to salinity, temperature changes and other unfavourable abiotic conditions.
4.6.2   Curonian lagoon ecology
Being at the end of several river basins and in open connection with the sea, the relatively
shallow Curonian lagoon functions as a sink for both fluvial and marine suspended matter.
Due to the large inflow of nutrients the lagoon is eutroficated and excessive algal blooms
have been recorded. Nevertheless, the lagoon still functions as an important aquatic habitat
with a wide variety of species, of which several are commercially important.
TYPES OF HABITAT AND KEY SPECIES
The habitats of the Curonian lagoon are characterised by low depths, active hydrodynamic
patterns and distribution of various sediment types. Soft and hard bottom habitats can be
distinguished for the benthic environment. The pelagic system is best characterised by the
salinity levels present, and can be divided into: limnic (freshwater), frontal and marine.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-35                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      u
HARRIS
Key species are closely linked to the habitat dynamic and coupling between pelagic and
benthic systems. The first one responds to momentary changes (hours to days scale) of
environmental factors (mostly salinity and temperature), whereas the response of the second
system is restricted to the longer periods (weeks to months scale). Consequently, bottom
macrofauna permanently is a mixture of marine and freshwater species, however in the
pelagic system either fresh or limnic communities are dominant in most cases. Unstable
frontal pelagic communities are distributed in the narrow salinity range and undergo spatial
fluctuations.
The hard bottom habitat is the most diverse part of the benthic system. Key species are
epifaunal suspension feeders like: zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha in the freshwater
conditions and barnacle Balanus improvisus in the brackish harbour strait. These habitats
include hard artificial and semi-natural substrates (piles, sunk wood, and embankment
boulders) to the boulders and other substrate of natural origin. Average weight and
abundance of macrofauna were estimated to be 51 g/m2 and 8x103 ind/M2 respectively.
Habitats with artificial substrates in many cases are periodically influenced by extreme
environmental factors (ice cover, wave breaking etc.), therefore macrofauna parameters
could be reduced in these areas. During the vegetation period, littoral hard bottom substrates
are covered by macroalgae communities of seasonal opportunistic filamentous green algae:
Cladophora, Enteromorpha, Chaetomorpha sp. and opportunistic red  algae  Bangia
atropurpurea.
Soft bottom habitats include coarse to fine grained sandy and muddy bottom types and are
inhabited by burrowing oligochaetes, chironomids, polychaetes Nereis diversicolor and
Marenzelleria viridis, etc. The average weight and abundance of the macrofauna communities
are estimated at approximately 17 g/m2 and 15x103 ind/M2 respectively. Seasonal
filamentous green algae mats are observed during the vegetation season only.
The distribution of the four main bottom macrofauna communities is presented in Figure 4-15
a and b.
Three types of pelagic habitats (limnic, marine and frontal) are forming different quantitative
and qualitative patterns of zooplankton community. The limnic habitat (up to 0.5 psu) is
characterised by comparatively high species diversity. There are 23 limnic crustacean
species 'and taxonomic groups found. The key species are Chydorus sphaericus, Daphnia
longispina, Cyclops strenuus and Mesocyclops leuckarti. At different stages of the seasonal
succession they reached more than 50 % of total zooplankton density ranging from 50 up to
550 ind/l. Most abundant representatives of Rotatoria are Keratella sp. and Brachionus sp.
In the marine zooplankton community 8 marine and brackish crustacean species were found
during Baltic Sea water intrusions. Monthly averages of total density were 10-15 times lower
than in limnic zooplankton community. Acartia bifilosa appeared as a dominant species with
the maximum density exceeding 25.0 ind/l.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-36                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitaton Project                                         0
HARRIS
Baltic Sea    Port area
Kiaipecda//
Strait
31 D           } E                          /   g   Klaipeda
mImm 4        |   2    Northem          /   we2
city
Central
p art
Southernm                    ie Smitoe!
Figure 4-1 5a   Curonian lagoon zonation and   Figure 4-1 5b   Klaipeda Strait area
distribution of bottom macrofauna              with diverse hard/morenic (Balanus
communities                                   improvisus) to soft and muddy bottom
1. Dreissena polymorpha community;             (Oligochaeta) communities. Local
2. Valvata community;                          bays are temporally defaunated.
3. Marenzelleria viridis community;
In the junction of fresh and marine water masses the frontal community appeared at salinity
range 1.5-5.5 psu and is represented by a mixture of limnic and marine species. Slightly
higher species diversity and comparatively low density of limnic (50.0 - 180.0 ind/I) as well as
marine (2.0 - 19.0 ind/I) species are characteristic of frontal zooplankton community.
Phytoplankton community consists of 438 species, forms and varieties of plankton algae, 343
species of them were common both in the lagoon and in the adjacent Baltic Sea areas. Most
of the species belong to the fresh-to-brackish (37% of total species number) and fresh water
(42%) ecological groups, however the data on their distribution along the salinity gradient is
not available. In spring and summer-autumn periods key species are Stephanodiscus
hantzschii (Diatomophyceae) and Aphanizomenon flos-aquae (Cyanobacteria) with densities
up to 30 mg/l and 100 mg/l respectively.
Benthic macrofauna production is used as a food source for the demersal benthic fishes.
However, the grazing ratio of zooplankton within pelagic system is low. Nevertheless, not
grazed part of zooplankton communities in the water masses with critical salinity values are
the source of particulate organic matter. Due to high mortality, approximately 60-80% of the
limnic and 60-70% of marine community biomass at 0.5-2.0 and 5.0-6.5 psu respectively are
transported from pelagic to the benthic system.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-37                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
FISH SPECIES
In the northern part of the lagoon the main commercially important species are: Smelt
(Osmerus eperlanus L.), pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca L.), bream (Abramis brama L.),
roach (Rutilus rutilus L.), eel (Anguilla anguilla L.), perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) and other illegally
fished rare protected migratory fishes.
The western coast of the lagoon is an important area for most migratory fishes: ide
(Leuciscus idus, asp (Aspius aspius), Vimba vimba, flounder (Piatichthys fiesus). The fish
communities there are formed of river species. Totally more than 30 fish species are known
to be common in the lagoon.
In the north part of Curonian lagoon local freshwater fish populations are reproducing.
POLLUTION
The Lithuanian monitoring programmes have documented fish communities clearly
influenced by eutrofication. In the Curonian lagoon, the abundance of cyprinids, such as
roach, silver bream and bream, is extremely high compared to most other coastal lagoon
areas.
On extreme accumulation sites and inside the harbour inlets the benthic macrofauna is
scarce or even absent, because of contaminated sediments and heavy organic pollution.
In the pelagic system approximately 4 % of the total number of phytoplankton species are
known to be potentially toxic. However only few species reach high abundance: the green
algae Scenedesmus quadricauda, the blue-greens Microcystis aeruginosa, Anabaena
spiroides and, especially A. flos-aquae. During intensive algae growth at temperatures around
20 0C, concentrations of A. flos-aquae several times reached "hyper-bloom" levels (higher
than 100 mg/I).
Both benthic and pelagic systems are of enhanced potential to be recipients of invasive
species. This phenomenon known as "biological pollution" may result in structural and
functional ecosystem changes. Totally 8 alien species are known to occur in the vicinity of the
harbour area and most of them belong to the different groups of benthic macrofauna. Two of
them, the polychaete Marenzelleria viridis and the zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha
already dominate in the lagoon.
4.6.3  Curonian Spit National Park ecology
The Curonian spit is a patch of preserved land between the Baltic Sea and the Curonian
lagoon with a unique scenic beauty. Up to the 15th century both deciduous and coniferous
forests covered the spit. Later, however, large portions of them were felled by axe. This
resulted in severe sand shifting. The moving sand swallowed 14 villages. It was in 1825 when
reforestation projects were started to try to stop the moving sand. At present the spit is
covered by some 7 thousand hectares of forests, most of them pinewoods. On the old dunes
linden, oaks and elm trees can be found.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-38                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                     n
HARRIS
TYPES OF HABITAT AND KEY PLANT SPECIES
Several vegetation belts can be identified in        0 Girulici
the Klaipeda region of the Curonian Spit.
These are: the beach, the relief elements of
the coastal dune (west slope, crest, east slope,
and dune plain), hummock, biggest dunes and                 Khaip6da
the coast of Curonian I anoon. In these belts,
the flora characteristic only of the Curonian
Spit coast has formed. The  main  plant
associations of the coastal dunes as presented
in Figure 4-16 are the following (the area
numbers in the text are linked to areas marked
in this figure:
*  On the seacoast beach belt the winds (and              Ju  krant6
holidaymakers) are  constantly  moving
sand. The conditions for plants to settle
here are not favourable. The remnants of
thrown out water-plants accumulate at the
foot of coastal dunes, enriching the sand
with organic nutritious matters and forming
minimum   conditions  for  the   most
unexacting plants. So, small groups of the
Cakile baltica as well as the colonies of
Honckenya peploides grow there. They           bv a
form  plant association  of  Cakiletum
baiticum (areas marked as 1).
*  The west slope is ruined by winds, very              E'reila   f ent1
often by holiday - makers, and during
storms by the sea waves as well. The
cereals, which are not sensitive to sand
drifting, grow here. The most common        X\ tL.-Si1L
species are Ammophila arenaria, Leymus          Nlida                     0
arenarius,  Festuca  arenaria. On  the
Lithuanian coastal dunes (west slope),
these  plant .species  form  compact
associations  of Leymo Ammophiletum   _         _       _       _    i
oriento balticum.
On the wavy dune crest plants resistant to
drought and strong winds grow. They are :    Figure. 4-16  Main  communities'
Festuca subulose, Ammophila arenaria,    distribution  in  the  Curonian  spit.
Leymus      arenarius,    Tragopogon    (Legend explanations are in the text).
heterospermus, Hieracium  umbeilatum,
Artemisia campestri, sand ect.. These plant species form on the dune crest associations
of Leymo Ammophiletum oriento balticum with Artemisia campestris and Leymo
Ammophiletum oriento balticum with Festuca sabulosa (areas marked 2).
*  On the eastern slopes of the dunes, the conditions for the growth of plants are more
favourable. Here the amount of humus in the soil is higher and western winds are
weaker. In this relief element of the dunes the following plants are growing: Jasione
montana, Helichrysum arenarium, Festuca sabulosa, Carex arenaria and ect. These plant
species form on the eastern slope associations of Helichryso Jasionetum with Festuca
sabulosale. (areas marked 3).
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-39                  September 1999



KIaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
*  On the dune plain belt the variety of species is richer, than on the above-mentioned relief
elements of the dunes. Such plants are : Corynephorus canescens,Jesione montona,
Festuca sabulosa, Helichrysum arenatium. Carex arenaria and ect. These plant species
form on the dune plain associations of Helichryso Jasionetum with Festuca sabulosae
and Corenyphoretum canescentis with Festuca sabulosa (areas marked 3).
*  Forests occupy the biggest part of the Curonian Spit dune plain and hummock territory.
At a distance of 30 - 90 meters behind the dune plain meadows Empetro nigri - Pinetum
forest are growing. Here Pinus sylvestris, Empetrum nigrum, Juniperus communis prevail.
In this area the following plant species are growing : Desohampsia flexuosa, Melampyrus
pratense, Agrostis tenuis and ect. In other places where the amount of humus in the soil
is lower, Cladonio - Pinetum mediocuropae type forest are growing (area marked 4).
Here the lichen and moss cover has remained stable. Prevailing species are - Cetraria
crispa, Cladonia gracilis and Pleurozium schreberi.
*  In places, where the amount of humus in the soil is higher, Pyrola - Pinetum type forest
grow (areas marked 5). Here Pinus sylvestris arid Pyrola rotundifolia prevail. Singly plants
are: Betula pubescens and Alnus glutinosa. Characteristic grasses of the forest include:-
Deschampsia flexuosa, Carex arenaria, Luzula campestris, Orth/i/a secunda, Pyrola
minor, Pyrola chloranthe, Chimpaphila, umbellata and Monesen uniflora.
*  On the older parabolic dunes, near the narrow settlements Juodkrante and Nida old
Myrtillo - Pinetum forest are growing (areas marked 6). Characteristic forest plants are:
Vaccinium myrtillus, V. vitis - idaea, Convallaria majalis, Melampyrum pratense,
Majanthemum bifolium and Trientalis europaea.
-  On some parabolic dunes are Pinetum mugo associations (areas marked 7). Here
constantly abundant are moss and lichen - Cetraria islandica, Cladonia alpestris,
Dicranum rugosum, Pleurozium shreberi and Ceratodon purpurens.
*  In dry places of dune plain and hummock Betuletum vacciniosum associations (areas
marked 8) are present. Prevailing plant species: - Betula pedula and Pinus sylvestis.
Such plants are : Juniperus communis, Sorbus aucuparia, Salix aurita, Populus pendula.
The grass and underwood, what Carex nigra, Calamagrostis canescens, Agrastis
stolonifera, Poa palustris, Pyrola rotundifolia and Pyrola mitora constantly grow.
*  In wet places of dune plain and hummock, where the amount of humus in the soil is
higher there are Alnetum urticosum associations (areas marked 9). Here, Alnus glutinosa
with Betula pendula prevail. Grass plants - Vaccinium vitis - idaea, Melampyrum pratense,
Agrostis tenuis, Pao irrigata, Veronica officianlis, prevail.
*  In humid soil of dune plain and hummock are Betuletum caricosum. Solitary Alnus
glutinosa, Populus tremula, Salix cinerea, Agrostis stolonifera Poa palustris, Pyrola
rotundifolia and Pyrola minor can be found.
*  In wet places of dune plain and hummock, where the amount of humus in the soil is
higher Alnetum urticosum associations are growing. Prevailing plant species include
Alnus glutionosa with Betula pendula. Solitary Sorbus aucuparia, Sambucus racemosa,
Salix cinerea, Rhamnus carhartica, Rubus idaeus, Rubus caesius, Ribes nigrum growing.
In the grass vegetation Urtica dioica prevails.
*  The biggest dunes are covered by grass vegetation, which form  Corynephoretum
canescentis and Helichryso - Jasionetum associations. Here from the grass plants
Corynephorus canescens, Jasione montana, Helichrysum aremarium. Carex arenaria,
Artemisia campestris, Hieracium umbellatum and Astragalus arenarius prevail.
ANIMAL SPECIES
The mosaic type spreading of the vegetation in the Curonian Spit determines the distribution
of its fauna. Important mammals are: Moose or European Elk (Alces alces), Wild Pig (Sus
serofa), Sciurus vulgaris, Pine Marten (Martes martes), Roe Deer (Capreolus capreolus),
Brown Hare (Lepus europaeus), Fox (Leypes vulpes), Eurasian Badger (Meles meles),
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-40                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        m
HARRIS
Common Stoat (Mustela erminea), Least Weasel (Mustela nivalus), Common Otter (Lutra
lutra). Important bird species are: Great Tit (Parus major), Wood Pigeon (Columba
palumbus), Common Coot (Fulic atra), Common Crane (Grus grus), Black-headed Gull
(Larus ridibandus), Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea) and Eagle Owl (Bubo bubo). From the
reptiles noteworthy are: Locerta agilis, Locerta vivipara and Anguis tragilis. From Amphibia
noteworthy are: Rana esculenta, Rana terrestris, Rana temperaria, and Bombina bombina.
From the insects noteworthy are: Mesoligia lite rosa, Sterrha fuscoienosa, Photedes elymi,
Cocindella maritimo, Vanessa atalanta.
4.7  SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE STUDY AREA
4.7.1   Navigation and vessel traffic control
TYPES AND NUMBERS OF SHIPS
Every year Klaipeda port is visited by more than 50 types and sizes of ships. These include
liquid, dry and neo bulk cargo ships, specialised cargo ships like Ro-Ro ferry's and container
ships, fishing ships and several non-merchant types of ships.
In 1997, more than 7000 ships (excluding small fishing ships and pleasure boats) called the
Klaipeda port. In some periods between 30-40 ships per day call on the port, resulting in
about 60-80 ships movements across the entrance of the port per day.
PILOTAGE
Pilotage in Klaipeda port is mandatory for medium and big sized ships, from the ports
'Receiving light buoy" at 2.5 nautical mile from port entrance, up to the entrance channel and
in all port areas. Exemptions of the mandatory pilotage are arranged for the smaller fishing
ships and pleasure boats, and for some of the Ro-Ro ferry ships. The latter, only if their
captains have a special permit from the harbour master. The Klaipeda port pilot station is
located at the harbour master office tower near quay wall No.4. Pilot's watch is kept 24 hours
a day except in periods of dense fog and strong SW - NW winds above force 7 of the
Beaufort scale.
Anchorage can be obtained in the outer roads at the receiving light buoy. The outer roads
anchorage for tankers is situated at a distance of 3.5 miles from this buoy where waterdepth
ranges from 31 - 35 m.
The pilot orders tugs if necessary. Mooring and unmooring of large sea-going vessels can be
done with tug assistance only. The number of tugs to be ordered depends on the weather
conditions and can be agreed upon between the captain and the pilot.
VESSEL TRAFFIC CONTROL ACTIVITIES
The port is equipped with a vessel traffic control system. The VTC-station is located at the
Harbour master office tower. Its radar stations are located on tower 1 (Harbour master office)
and on tower 2, which is located near the quay wall No. 72. Pilots-operators provide all vessel
traffic control from tower No. 1. All ships on the port entrance and in port are under vessel
traffic control. Radio contact with the vessel traffic control centre is established through the
Port Radio station, operating 24 hours per day.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Irnpact Assessment   4-41                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        N
HARRIS
ACCIDENTS IN KLAIPEDA PORT
The northern part of the Klaipeda port is not safe during strong western storms, because of
wave conditions. In these cases, ships located at quay walls No. 1-8 should sail to open sea
for the storm period, or must take additional safety actions, like tug assistance, or stay on
anchor in harbour. The situation for the ships is even more difficult during storms from west
or northwest directions near quay walls No. 1-4.
A few major accidents have occurred in Klaipeda port. The most serious accidents took place
in 1981 with the tanker GLOBE ASIMI and in 1987 with the cargo ship RUDOLF
BERSHTEIN. Wrecks of which now are near the head of the North breakwater. These
accidents occurred during strong westerly storms, when the ships tried to leave port, as it
was considered unsafe to stay near quay wall No. 3 (GLOBE ASIMI) and quay wall No. 7
(RUDOLF BERSHTEIN). During these stormy conditions with big waves at the entrance of
the port and varying current conditions in- and outside the port entrance, it is very difficult for
ships to leave or enter the port.
Smaller accidents involving small fishing boats took place between 1980-1992 at the entry of
the port and with a floating crane near port entrance, wrecks of which are on the North
breakwater. In 1987 and in 1988 minor accidents involving the Ro-Ro ferry ships took place
in the entrance to the port.
NAVIGATIONAL CONSTRAINTS DUE TO WAVES AND ICE FORMATION
As the port is not protected from westerly storms and related waves by natural banks or
breakwaters, incoming waves cause difficult navigational conditions. During these stormy
conditions it is difficult to both enter and leave the port. On entering the port, ships more or
less sail on the waves. Due to the fact that the ships have to slow down in speed, the
manoeuvring possibilities are strongly reduced. According to port regulations a ships speed
limitation is 6 knots. The accident with the Ro-Ro ferry ship MUKRAN on arrival to Klaipeda
port was attributed to insufficient manoeuvrability as a consequence of reduced speed.
As the existing entrance of the port is at rather short distance from the oil terminal quay walls,
where tankers with hazardous cargo (oil products) are mooring, this is an unsafe situation.
When ships depart the port during storm conditions, the same speed problem arises. Ships
must make a turn at the channel bending point at rather close distance from the port
entrance, where waves penetrate from the sea. During the turning process (about 25
degrees), a ships speed might drop from 6 knots to 3-4 knots, sometimes even to 1.5 knots,
like tanker GLOBE ASIMI. With these slow speeds the ships manoeuvrability is strongly
reduced as well and consequently the ships sailing line is dictated by waves, currents and
wind drift.
In general Klaipeda port is ice free in wintertime. Only in very cold winters (once per 30-40
years) the south part of the Baltic Sea and the port are covered by ice. In springtime and
some times in wintertime ice patches will shift from the Curonian lagoon to the sea via the
Klaipeda Strait. During very intensive ice shifting periods some risks exist for the ships
mooring near quay walls and for ships which can not use anchoring positions in port areas.
During ice shifting periods the small fishing ships and other medium sized ships face difficult
sailing conditions.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-42                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitabon Project                                          
HARRIS
4.7.2  Maintenance dredging and disposal
Klaipeda Port is the only area along the Lithuanian coast where maintenance and capital
dredging works are carried out. Some beach replenishment works north of Palanga may be
considered in the future, but these works do not fall within the scope of works of the Port
Authorities.
Maintenance dredging totals approximately 500,000 m3 a year and is mainly carried out in
three areas within the port:
*  The navigational channel outside the breakwaters, with quantities ranging from 70,000 to
500,000 a year. On an average dredged volumes totals approximately 200,000 m3 of
sandy sediments a year.
*  The harbour entrance, from the tip of the breakwaters up to and including the oil berths:
150,000 m3 of sand and mud.
*  The area in front of the international Ferry terminal: approximately 150,000 m3 of mud
and sand.
Since 1995 capital dredging works are being carried out in various parts of the port to
improve accessibility. These capital dredging works include dredging of the hard glacial till
sediments.
Klaipeda Port does not have its own dredging equipment. As there are also no Lithuanian
dredging contractors, foreign dredging companies are invited to bid for all dredging works. In
the past decade, Latvian, Russian and Polish dredging companies have carried out dredging
works.
Maintenance dredging (sand and silt) is mainly carried out with Trailing Suction Hopper
Dredgers. The capacity of the hoppers is 1200 to 3000 m3, while the average daily
productivity amounts to 3000-5500 m3 (small hopper) and 1.0000-11000 m3 (medium sized
hopper) of dredged material.
Capital dredging is mainly carried out with a bucket dredger in combination with a grab
dredger. The bucket dredgers used have a theoretical productivity of 750 m3 per hour.
However, the actual productivity varies, depending on the difficulty of dredging operations
and characteristics of the sediments encountered, in the range of 700 to 3500 m3 per day.
The relatively hard glacial till is difficult to dredge. According Russian classification this type of
material is classified as having a hardness of category 7. The next hardness category will
require blasting prior to dredging. Blasting however has not been allowed in Klaipeda since
1960.
The sediments from the glacial till layer contain varying quantities of boulders. These
boulders range in size from small stones to stones of more than 100 tons. Boulders which can
not be handled by the bucket dredger will be taken out by a grab dredger. If the boulders are
also too big to be removed by the grab dredger, sediments will be taken out from underneath
the boulder, causing it to sink to a lower position.
The boulders are collected (separated from the other sediments) and stored on the shore
near the southern breakwater. All other sediments, originating both from maintenance and
capital dredging are transported to offshore disposal sites where they are dumped.
A review of the volumes dredged since 1990 is presented in Table 4-20.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4.43                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        9
HARRIS
Table 4-20
Volumes dredged and related disposal sites since 1990
Year        Volume [m31    Dump Site           Total [m3]
1990    354 285            Site III       354 285
1991    330 650   _         Site III      330 650
1992    407 181          j Site III       407 181
1993    155 100            Site 11        561 492
406 392            Site Ill l
1994    252 309            Site IV        826 839
574 530           Site Ill
1995    243 461            Site IV        2 446 957
2 203 496          Site lIl
1996    23 271             Site IV        1 681 440
1 658 169         Site IlIl
1997    302 994            Site IV        1 472 386
1 169 392         Site Ill
1998    138 821            Site IV        772 185
633 364            Site IlIl
DISPOSAL SITES
There are four existing and one planned disposal site for dredged sediments (Figure 4-17).
From the very start of port deepening up to the 1960s, the dredged sediments were dumped
at site No. 1, which is at about 3 kilometres NW from the port gates, at depths of 10-20
meters.
From  1963  till 1986  disposal of dredged      -  _                     -       ..
sediments was performed at disposal site No. 2,   \
which is located at about 4.5 kilometres NW    \
form the port gates, at waterdepths of 20-25
meters. During this period more than 15 million
mi3 of dredged sediments were placed here.
Both disposal sites were considered to be too
close to the shore (contaminated sediments
were washed on the.nearby beaches) and were 5'      ____.._5
closed for that reason.                        \              \l
The main mass of clean and slightly polluted
sediments, including glacial till and mud from the
aquatory is at present being transported to
disposal site No. 3, which is located some 20
kilometres south-west from the port gates, at
waterdepths  of 45-49  meters. This  third                  _
dumping site, situated in front of Alksnyne, is in
operation since 1987.
Based on recent investigations it was concluded
that this disposal site lies in a lithodinamically   Figure 4-17    Old, operational and
active zone. It was found that material deposited   planne    dispOs al        and
here will rapidly spread over a substantial area.  planned  disposal site for dredged
Sediments will even  be  transported  to  the   materals from the Klaipeda Port.
nearshore zone, where it will deposit at a depth of
20 to 25 m.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-44                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                     9
HARRIS
When the problem of disposing 300 thousand m3 of heavily contaminated sludge from Malko
Bay arose, the problem of intensive spreading of the sediments at the No. 3 disposal site
forced the discussion on other alternatives. As a result it was proposed to create an
additional disposal site (indicated No. 5 on the map) some 29 kilometres south-west of the
port gates, where the waterdepth is approximately 54 m. Sediment dispersion at this site is
expected to be directed towards deeper accumulation zones.
In 1996, a new disposal site has been approved for disposal of sand, which contains less
than 30% of particles smaller than 0.1 mm. This No. 4 site is located 11 kilometres NW from
port gate at depths of 25-30 m. At present only a small part of the clean sandy sediments
from the marine sector of the entrance channel are deposited here. This disposal site has an
experimental character and is not expected to have a significant effect on marine biological
resources.
DISPOSAL OF CONTAMINATED SEDIMENTS
In 1995 a study on "Dredging and disposal of contaminated sediments in Klaipeda Port' has
been carried out. The project identified and made preliminary designs for two possible sites
for storage of contaminated sediments, being the so-called Ship Graveyard and Dreverna.
The Ship Graveyard could accumulate polluted deposits from Malko Bay for short-term
storage, whereas at the Dreverna site a long-term storage site could be developed for
contaminated sediments from different parts of the entire port. The storage capacities for the
Ship Graveyard and Dreverna are 65 and 350 thousand M3.
However, the construction of these sites was considered to be too expensive and the
realisation of a confined disposal area for contaminated sediments did not materialise.
Consequently both clean and contaminated dredged sediments are disposed in the sea.
BENEFICIAL USE OF DREDGED SEDIMENTS
All dredged sediments from the Klaipeda port are disposed of in the sea and are not applied
for any practical use.
There are plans to carry out an introductory study on "Utilisation of dredged materials from
the Klaipeda Port Area", in 1998. This study should assess expediency of ground use and
formulate environmental requirements. This study is to include the utilisation of sand dredged
from the entrance channel and port gate areas.
4.7.3  Environmental protection and coastal zone management
REGULATIONS AND PROGRAMS
The rules and regulations in Lithuania with respect to environmental protection are described
in the Constitution of the Lithuanian Republic and the law on Environmental Protection.
The main environmental protection related limitations for the Klaipeda harbour development
in the study area are:
* the territories on the southern side of Klaipeda Strait belong to the Curonian Spit National
Park and the territories north of Giruliai belong to the Pajurio regional park. In these
locations no industrial, recreational or other activities can be started without permission of
Lithuanian Government. The same applies to the entire coastal zone starting 200 meters
from the water border.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-45                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
* for the territory between Melnrage and Giruliai plans have already been proposed to
develop high quality infrastructure for the recreational and entertainment industry. (This
project is called "Integrated management and development of Lithuanian Baltic Coastal
Zone"),
* the regulations for sustainable management and protection of fishery resources in the
study area.
At this time the "Project on Integrated Lithuanian coastal zone management (EU PHARE,
Project No: ZZ 92.18) is in the final stage. The main goal of this project was to ensure
sustainable use of coastal zone resources, protection of biodiversity and productivity of
coastal ecosystems and increase the quality of the coastal environment by integrated
planning and management activities.
For some environmental problems, the responsibility and timing is fixed in the Klaipeda
Municipality Environmental Protection Program.
Waste water treatment, drinking water quality and related management are handled by the
Klaipeda Environmental Protection Project, which is carried out as a joint project between
Lithuania, Sweden, Finland and the IBRD.
ANTI-POLLUTION AND MONITORING PROGRAMS IN THE PORT
At present there are no special anti-pollution programs in port area, but in 1998 the
Lithuanian Action Plan for the elimination of oil spills in the Baltic Sea has been prepared,
whereas some port companies have their own company oriented action plans for pollution
prevention.
Several environmental monitoring programs are being carried out in the study area. Co-
ordination between these programs is a point that requires attention.
The main monitoring program is "The environmental monitoring program of Lithuania".
Several parts of this program are also related to the present study area, like: the Klaipeda Air
Quality Observation Program, the Water Monitoring Program, which includes the Curonian
lagoon, the Baltic Sea and groundwater. This program was started at 1995. The Baltic Sea
Water Monitoring Program is closely related with Baltic States Helsinki Commission
(HELCOM) Water Monitoring Program.
The second program was initiated by the Klaipeda State Sea Port Authorities in 1995 and is
called the "Klaipeda Port Environmental Monitoring Program".
Several big companies have their own environmental monitoring programs, for example
'Naftos terminalas" is carrying out an Ecological Monitoring Program, and "Klaipedos vanduo"
is carrying out a monitoring program related to Drinking Water and Water Supply.
Two monitoring programs related to fishery resources (Coastal Zone Fish Resources
Monitoring Program and Salmon and Sea Trout Monitoring Program) are going on since 1995
and 1998 respectively. The responsible organisations are the State Fish Breading Centre
Laboratory for the first program and the freshwater research group "Centre for System
Analysis" of the Klaipeda University for the second.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-46                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          AR
-       ~~HARlRIS
MONITORING AND LABORATORY FACILITIES
The following laboratories are present in the Klaipeda area:
*  the Sea Research Centre of the United Research Centre, Ministry of Environment
(meteorological,  hydrological,  hydrochemical,  bacteriological  and  hydrobiological
parameters, specific pollutants, heavy metals and radionucleids can be investigated),
*  the  Laboratory  of Regional Department, Ministry of Environment (hydrological,
hydrochemical, bacteriological parameters, specific pollutants, heavy metals, air
pollutants can be investigated),
*  the laboratories of Centre for System Analyses, Faculty of Nature Sciences, Klaipeda
University (hydrological, hydrochemical, hydrobiological and ichtyological parameters can
be investigated, the video, diving, GIS and modelling equipment are in use),
*  the laboratory of State Fish Breading Centre, Ministry of Agriculture (ichtyological
parameters can be investigated),
*  the  laboratory  of "Klaipeda  Water"  (drinking  and  waste  water,  hydrological,
hydrochemical, bacteriological parameters, specific pollutants, heavy metals are
investigated),
  the laboratories of private companies like "Geoprojektas" and "Ekosistema" - are carrying
out  short  term  investigations of hydrophysical, hydrochemical and air pollution
parameters too.
e  the laboratory  of Klaipeda  Public  Health  Centre  (hydrochemical, bacteriological
parameters, specific pollutants, heavy metals and radionucleids are investigated, the
quality of food, air quality in working place, noise and hygienical investigations are
investigated).
4.7.4   Reception facilities for ship generated waste
Klaipeda is the only seaport of the Republic of Lithuania. The Port Authority, the state Oil
Enterprise and the state Stevedoring Company "Smelte" are the main institutions responsible
for the reception facilities in the Klaipeda Port. The port has adequate reception facilities for
oily waste, mixtures, ballast water and garbage to serve vessels visiting the port.
Oily waste from ships can be transported to purification facilities located in the State Oil
Enterprise of Klaipeda. The capacity of this treatment plant is 12 000 m3 per day or 4.38
million m3 per year. This plant is used within 10-20% of its capacity. Oily waste is pre-treated
using mechanical means only. Oil hydrocarbon concentrations in the treated water that is
discharged to the Baltic Sea vary between 0.5-1 mg/I.
The State Stevedoring Company "Smelte" owns the other purification facility for oily water
storage. This plant has a capacity of 301 m3 per day or 110 000 m3 per year. After local
purification, the wastewater is directed to the wastewater treatment plant of the Klaipeda
town, where at present only mechanical treatment will be applied. Biological treatment is
planned to be introduced in 1999.
Liquid garbage and sewage from ships are transported to the local mechanical treatment
Plant of "Smelte" Co. The capacity of this treatment plant is 4000 m3 per day or 1460
thousand m3 per year. After local purification, wastewater is transported to the wastewater
treatment plant of the Klaipeda town.
Oily sediments are transported to specially arranged town dumps. Oily rags and dry garbage
are to be burnt in a small incinerator. The other garbage is directed to the town garbage
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-47                   September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                     9
HARRIS
heap. There is a need for a new incinerator, which is equipped with smoke recovery and
emission control.
Table 4-21
The capacities of collectors for polluted and faecal water and garbage in the Klaipeda Port
area
[Owner                 |Ship name          C Capacity, tones
Dituva             173
"Smelte" Co.            Sernai             298
Jokubavas          298
Flora              306
"KLASCO" Co.            Fauna              417
Total              1492
In 1994-1995, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) undertook initial surveys to the
Baltic Sea States to evaluate the current state of facilities in ports for the reception of ship
generated waste and to make recommendations for future technical assistance within the
requirements of the MARPOL 73/78 and HELCOM 1992. The project was carried out by Carl
Bro International and the implementation of the project named "Enhancement of Reception
Facilities for Ships in Eastern Baltic Ports", is being awaited.
4.7.5  Spill contingency (oil pollution) planning and response equipment
The Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Lithuania has the overall administrative and
strategic responsibility for combating oil pollution accidents in the marine environment. On
behalf of the Klaipeda State Port Authority the operational response activities in relation to oil
pollution in the marine environment are executed by the Marine Rescue Co-ordination Centre
(MRCC) of Klaipeda, which is located in the Klaipeda Port. Klaipeda MRCC is the "alarm
centre" (national contact point) and co-ordinator for all the combating activities. It is also the
leading institution within the National Oil Spill Contingency Plan for Combating Oil Pollution of
the Sea in Lithuania as prepared by Carl Bro International.
The Klaipeda MRCC is responsible for combating oil pollution in the open sea as well as in
the aquatory of the Klaipeda Port and the Curonian Lagoon.
The MRCC owns the vessel "Sakiai", which is especially equipped for combating oil and other
pollution as well as for fire fighting. The equipment available to MRCC is summarised in Table
4-22. Additional and enlarged quantities of equipment should be provided under the new
National Oil Spill Contingency Plan for Combating Oil Pollution, being at present prepared by
Carl Bro International a/s.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-48                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
Table 4-22
Equipment available at MRCC
Equipment                                              Total
Booms:
Ro-Boom 2000                                    500 meters
Bennex Noas KL=80"                              400 meters
Oil Trawl Bennex PL-800                         1
Skimmer:
Foxtail Vab 2-8 vertical absorbing skimmer      1
Walosep W-2                                     2
Cargo transfer pump:
Framo TK-5/TK-8 emergency off-loading system    1
4.7.6  Fisheries in coastal and harbour area and Curonian lagoon
The commercial fishery is important both in the open Baltic Sea, the coastal zone area and
the northern part of Curonian lagoon. In the harbour area fishery is prohibited.
Recreational fishing also takes place but there are no statistical data available. In general it
can be stated that during good fishing weather conditions you can meet 500 - 2000 anglers in
this area.
TYPE OF FISHERIES, NUMBER OF BOATS, EMPLOYMENT
The types of commercial fishery are gillnetting, trawling, trapping and hooking. At present 64
boats are fishing in open Baltic Sea, whereas in the coastal area around 90 small fishing
companies with small boats operate. Baltic Sea fisheries involve approximately 3000 jobs.
The Curonian lagoon fishery relates to about 450 jobs more. Not included in these numbers
are the jobs related to fish processing and the fish trade industry.
In the lagoon approximately 20 small fishing companies employing around 80 fishermen
operate.
COMMERCIALLY IMPORTANT SPECIES
In Lithuanian economic zone and Lithuanian coastal zone the commercial fish resources
could be evaluated as follows:
Curonian lagoon:     1300-1500 metric ton,
Baltic Sea:          60000 - 70000 metric ton.
That means that about 97.5 % of total commercial fish resources of Lithuania are of marine
origin. In coastal zone 12 fish species are of interest to commercial fishery, of which 5 are
included in the Lithuanian Red Data Book and 10 species are migratory species.
The most important commercial species in the Baltic Sea area are smelt (Osmerus eperlanus
L.), flounder (Platichthys flesus trachurus Duncker), herring (Clupea harengus membras L.),
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-49                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        H
HARRIS
pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca L.), turbot (Scopthalmus maximus L.), salmon (Salmo salar
L.) and Sea Trout (Salmo trutta L.).
In the northern part of the lagoon the main commercial important species are smelt (Osmerus
eperlanus L.), pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca L.), bream (Abramis brama L.), roach
(Rutilus rutilus L.), eel (Anguilla anguilla L.), perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) and other illegally
fished rare protected migratory fishes.
CATCHES, VOLUME AND VALUE
In the Lithuanian coastal zone the total catch was 461 ton in 1996 and 271 ton in 1997. In the
study area the total catch was 99,2 and 58,9 ton respectively. The division of the various
species in the coastal zone is presented in Table 4-23.
Table 4-23
The structure of commercial catches in Coastal Zone
Fish species                Share in catch 1996(%)      Share in catch 1997 (%)
Herring                     34.03                       25.48
Cod                         20.52                       21.14
Smelt                       14.12                       16.02
Turbot                      13.37                       14.31
Flounder                    8.93                        13.05
Pike-perch                  3.24                        2.9
Others fresh water fishes   2.43                        4.02
No accurate statistics are available regarding the Curonian lagoon fishery, but in general the
following catch structure is found: the main species are roach - 35 % of total catch, bream -
26 %, smelt - 16,3 % and pikeperch - 6,5 %, others - 16 %.
The value of the total catch in the Baltic sea and the Curonian lagoon is estimated around 40
millions litas (10 million US$) per year.
4.7.7   Recreation and water sports
The development of recreational activities and tourism in the coastal zone is mainly based on
the presence of natural resources like the Baltic sea, beautiful sandy beaches and the high
valued nature reserves "Kursiu Nerija National Park' and "Pajurio Landscape Park".
Practically the entire Curonian spit, as well as the sandy beaches to the north near Palanga
are well-known tourist attractions.
In the Giruliai-Melnrage area just to the north of Klaipeda and in the Smiltyne area at the
most northern part of the spit, several pensions, sanatoriums, hotels and children camps can
be found. During sunny days Smiltyne and Giruliai-Melnrage beaches are attended by up to
35000 and 26000 visitors per day respectively.
The most important recreational objects in this area are at Smiltyne: a marina, a maritime
museum and aquarium, a Dolphinarium and a Museum of the Nature of the Curonian spit.
At Giruliai-Melnrage: a gymnasticum, sauna's and pools.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    4-50                  September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                            9
HARRIS
The water areas of the lagoon and the sea are used for water sports and tourism. The most
popular water sport is yachting. The main yacht clubs are situated in Klaipeda and have up to
300 yachts. At the Giruliai-Melnrage water skis and other water vehicles are available.
H7371     Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-51                                     September 1999
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   4-51                                      September 1999






Klalpeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                           ml
HARRIS
5   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT DURING
OPERATION
5.1 IMPACT ON HYDRAULICS
Both the dredging works and the construction of new breakwaters will have a direct effect on
currents and waterlevels. The magnitude of these effects will vary depending on local
characteristics and conditions.
The opening at the port entrance will be considerably reduced due to the construction of the new
breakwaters. This will locally result in somewhat increased flow velocities. The dredging works in
the Klaipeda Port will reduce the hydraulic resistance of the Klaipeda Strait and hence will cause
more interchange of water between the Baltic Sea and the lagoon.
The flow in the Klaipeda Strait is alternately towards the sea and towards the lagoon. This flow is
mainly caused by wind set-up or set-down and the discharge of rivers into the lagoon. When the
flow is directed from the lagoon to the sea, the most recurrent water discharge in the Klaipeda
Strait is 1300 m3/s. During periods with increased water level differences between the lagoon and
the sea this discharge may increase to 3250 m3/s or in extreme situations even to 5000 m3/s.
Inflow from the sea to the lagoon on average occurs 40 times a year, with a total duration of 70
days. Usually the discharge during inflow from the sea is around 850 m3/s. However, during
extreme storms it could reach levels as much as 3500 m3/s.
Computer model computations by the Lithuanian Energy Institute (using the hydraulic model HEC-
RAS; Kaunas, 1998) and Harris (using the hydraulic model Duflow), indicate that as a
consequence of the planned dredging works the hydraulic resistance of the Klaipeda Strait will be
reduced. This will result in a 3 to 4% initial increase in discharge. The results of the discharge
calculations are presented in Table 5-1.
Table 5-1
Effect of dredginq on hydraulic resistance of the Klaipeda Strait
HEC-RAS        Duflow        Duflow,            difference
Water level    existing      existing      dredged
difference [m]    situation   situation    channel [m3/s]    [m3/s]       [%]
[m3/sl        [M3/Sl
0.15         1600           1658          1711          53           3.2
0.40         2730           2751          2839          88           3.2
0.80         4100           3992          4119          127          3.2
-0.15        -1700          -1730         -1797         67           3.9
-0.40        -2880          -2865         -2977         112          3.9
Water levels at the port entrance will be dictated by the water level in the Baltic Sea and will not be
affected by the project. However, at the lagoon side, both the increased inflow of water from the
sea and the faster outflow of lagoon water to the sea, will result in effects on water levels. In Table
5-2, these effects have been calculated for the most common and the most extreme flow regimes
in the Klaipeda Strait, on the basis of the relationship between the discharge and the water level
differences between the lagoon and the sea.
For these calculations a 1.75 day flow was used-,which is the average duration of an inflow period
from the sea. Two effects have not been included in these calculations, i.e. the continued river
water inflow into the lagoon and the levelling effect due to the flow itself. The results show that the
inflow into the lagoon may result in an increase of water level of 8 cm during the most recurrent
conditions and to 33 cm in the most extreme conditions. Due to the dredging works an additional
water level rise in the lagoon is to be expected. However, this increase is limited to 0.3 cm for the
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-1                       September'1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            ml
HARRIS
most common and to 1.3 cm for the most,extreme situation. When the levelling effect of the inflow
is taken into consideration as well, the total effect is expected to be even smaller (<1 cm).
The dredging works will also lead to lower water levels in the lagoon during outflow periods. Based
on the given calculations this may be up to 2 cm under the most extreme conditions. However,
when the levelling effect is taken into consideration as well (under the given extreme conditions
water level in the lagoon is to drop more than 45 cm in the given 1.75 days), the effect is expected
to be smaller than the given 2 cm.
Table 5-2
Effect of increased inflow and outflow through Klaipeda Strait on water levels in the Lagoon
water level           existing situation        dredged channel (+4%)      if
difference   discharge   1.75 day  water level  discharge  1.75 da    water level   [cm]
[cm]       [m3/sI   flow rk   change [cm]  [rm3/s1  flow     change [cm] l
-10        850       0.129      8.1        884      0.134       8.4        0.3
-60       3500       0.529      33.4      3640      0.550      34.7        1.3
16        1300      0.197       12.4      1352      0.204      12.9       0.5
50        3250      0.491       31.0      3380      0.511      32.3        1.2
120       5000       0.756      47.7      5200      0.786      49.6        1.9
The slightly increased discharges will also result in slightly higher currents in non-dredged parts of
the Klaipeda Strait, which in certain periods may lead to slightly increased bottom erosion. In the
dredged areas the enlarged flow profile will lead to slightly lower currents. From a navigational
and/or safety point of view the above effects on hydraulics are considered to be of little
importance.
In this respect it is to be noted, that in the LEI report (Kaunas, 1998) the effects of additional
deepening dredging works in other parts of the port have already been studied. The study showed
that this may lead to much stronger effects than found for this project.
5.2 IMPACT ON WAVE CLIMATE INSIDE HARBOUR AREA
SHORT WAVES
For the various alternative design layouts (Reference Delft Hydraulics, 1998), wave penetration
computations were carried out. These computations were carried out for three wave directions,
i.e. 240 N, 270 N, 300 N.
The results in the form of wave penetration coefficients for the various port sections are presented
in Table 5-3.
Table 5-3
Wave penetration coefficients for existing and oroposed layout
Alternative layout          Existing situation    Selected alternative (Bns-m2)
wave direction (N)          | 240      270      300      240       270       300
Oil Port                     ( 10 %    45 %    45 %      15 %      30 %      30 %
Klasco deep water berths         -     25 %    35 %       5 %      10 %      10 %
Other Klasco berths              -     15 %    20 %                 5 %       5 %
The above data show that a considerable rmduction in wave height will result from the improved
channel and extension of the north and south breakwater.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-2                        September1 999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         s
HARRIS
LONG WAVES
Long-wave action inside the port is dependent on the water depth at the harbour entrance. Water
depth in this case is the "large scale" undisturbed depth at the location of the entrance, i.e. without
taking into account the presence of the approach channel.
In the selected alternative, where the entrance is moved further away from the coast (i.e. to a
deeper "undisturbed" depth contour) it can be assumed that the iong-wave energy entering the
harbour will be reduced. In theory, this would be proportional to the water depth squared, but as
the long-wave theory is still not at a stage of having been proved, a conservative linear relation
with water depth is used. Based on this relationship the selected alternative would already yield a
reduction of about 25% in long-wave height compared to the existing situation.
Consequently it can be stated that the improved channel layout and the extensions of both
breakwaters will result in reduced wave heights in the port and improved navigational safety.
5.3 IMPACT ON SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION PROCESSES
The evaluation of the impact of a structure on the coast is only possible if the morphology of the
coastal system is understood. The coast can be affected in two ways, i.e.:
1. A structure blocks the net littoral drift and causes accretion on the updrift side and erosion on
the down drift side, and
2. Sand from the coast is trapped in a dredged channel and removed by maintenance dredging
and dumped outside the active coastal zone.
=ITTORAL DRIFT
With regard to item 1 the opinion on the littoral drift at the outlet of Klaipeda Strait is based on the
following information and considerations:
 The general situation and the history of the Curonian landspit suggests that it is a stable
beach barrier without significant sand supply, neither from the south (rocky headland at
Kaliningrad), nor from the north (not realistic considering the shape of the spiral beach and the
wave climate), nor from the rivers (sand trapped in the lagoon). The beach barrier very likely
is generated by cross-shore transport and further shaped and smoothed by forth and back
going longshore transport.
* A north going littoral drift of 400,000 m3/yr and no sand supply from the south would cause a
continuous retreat of the coastline of about 40 m per century near Zelenogradsk in the south.
The historic situation and the absence of reports on such erosion in spite of the many field
measurements in that area support the idea mentioned under item 1.
* The presence of an ice cover in a large area around the outlet during 57 days on average in
winter time will affect the actual wave climate. Very likely, this is not taken into account in
littoral drift computations. If taken into account by ignoring the wind data in winter time, this
could result in a lower figure for the net littoral drift.
*  The data on the composition of the sea bed-at the outlet of Klaipeda Strait do not suggest that
a considerable sand drift is passing in front of the outlet. Obviously, the sediment transport
generated by the in- and outflow of the outlet (mostly silt) dominates the littoral sand drift.
* The coastal impact of the breakwaters at the outlet seems to be very local. The impact seems
to be restricted to a distance of about 1000 m to the south of the outlet and about 1200 m to
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-3                       September1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
the north. This corresponds to approximately two times the length of the breakwaters. The
coastlines of 1957,1990 and 1993 in this area show dynamic fluctuations rather than
systematic changes.
* Beyond these distances no distinct ongoing accretion south of the outlet is reported and no
distinct ongoing erosion north of it. Also this suggests that no distinct net littoral drift occurs.
* The difference in the slope of the foreshore on both sides of the outlet very well can be
explained by the oblique position of the breakwaters relative to the coast. This introduces
different diffraction patterns behind the breakwaters on both sides of the outlet. On the north
side diffraction will play a dominant role causing a steep slope of the foreshore (the waterline
can develop closer to the tip of the breakwater), whereas wave reflection on the breakwater
and rip currents may play a dominant role on the south side (keeping the waterline further
away from the tip of the breakwater). So, the different impacts on both sides are believed to
be caused by the asymmetry in the wave patterns rather than by the existence of a net
longshore sand drift.
*  The coasts adjacent to the outlet accreted on both sides in the period 1835-1878 as a result
of the breakwater construction. The sand for this accretion very likely came from the coast at
some greater distance and was drawn into the diffraction zones of the breakwaters. Some
erosion near the breakwaters was observed at least on the north side in the period 1878-
1957. There is no distinct reason to believe that the extension of the southern breakwater in
1957 had any effect on the coastal erosion. A more realistic explanation for the coastal
erosion is the loss of sand from the coast to the access channel to Klaipeda Port and
maintenance dredging.
X The migration of the outlet before it was fixed by the construction of the breakwaters not
necessarily is caused by north going sand drift. A very plausible explanation is the effect of
spiral flow in a bend, which causes migration in the direction of the outer bend. In rivers this
causes meandering.
From the above mentioned facts and arguments it is concluded that the net longshore sand drift is
negligible or small.
SAND Loss IN AccEss CHANNEL
A dredged channel passing the coastal zone acts as a disturbance of a natural system and
generates local gradients in the sediment transports. The reduced sediment transport capacity in
the deepened channel area makes it a sediment trap. Consequently, maintenance dredging is
required to maintain the nautical depth and width of the channel. An increased depth of the
dredged channel increases the trapping efficiency, because of the stronger flow reduction and
because the channel then becomes wider and longer. As a result the volume of required
maintenance dredging will increase.
In case the channel is not protected by breakwaters the littoral drift from either side will enter the
channel and will be the major cause of sedimentation. If the channel is maintained by regular
dredging and the spoil is dumped on land or in sea outside the active coastal zone, than it will
cause gradual erosion of the coast. Initially, this loss will be hardly noticeable because the sand
comes from long sections of the coast and the coastal regression will be very gradual.
In many cases the access channel is (partly) protected against (serious) sedimentation by the
construction of one or two breakwaters which block the littoral drift and prevent it to enter the
channel area. Generally, this protection is temporarily until sand starts bypassing the updrift
breakwater. Only in the case of zero net littoral sand drift the breakwaters can permanently
separate the channel area from the coastal zone, provided they are sufficiently long.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-4                         September'1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         9
HARRIS
5.3.1  Impact of breakwater extension
The impact of the 315 m extension of the southern breakwater very much depends on the net
littoral drift along the Baltic coast of the landspit separating the Curonian lagoon from the Baltic
Sea. As mentioned in Section 4.3.3 a difference of opinion exists about the littoral drift in this area.
However, based on the arguments presented in the previous section it is likely that the longshore
sand drift is negligible or at least small.
So, blocking of net longshore sand drift is not at hand and the coasts on both sides of the outlet
can be considered as independent systems. Consequently, further extension of the southern
breakwater as planned will not affect the coastline in a significant way. Only some changes close
to the outlet may occur, particularly south of the outlet due to changes in the local wave conditions
there. The waves from NW-N will generate a somewhat different wave diffraction pattern and
waves from SW-W a somewhat different reflection pattern.
Also the possible extension of the northern breakwater will have no significant impact on the
coast, as it does not noticeably change the wave diffraction and reflection patterns north of the
entrance.
It is noted that in the present situation any net littoral drift (which is negligible or at least small) is
already trapped by the existing breakwaters and the deepened access channel. Further extension
of the breakwaters cannot make the situation worse anyhow.
5.3.2  Impact of deepening and widening the access channel
According to the historic data the access channel was deepened artificially for the first time in
1960-1962. The historic dredging data confirm the increase of maintenance dredging with
increasing channel depth. They also show that presently the clean spoil (from the outer channel)
is dumped north of the outlet at a rather great distance from the shore in water with a depth of 17
to 25 m.
The sandy character of the bottom of the outer channel proves that sedimentation will be largely
caused by sand from the coastal zone because the lagoon as a sand source is unlikely. The sand
can enter the channel area either from the north or from the south depending on the direction of
the incoming waves. It passes the breakwaters due to the combined effect of waves and flow
velocities in the entrance of Klaipeda Strait. After dredging the spoil, it presently is dumped in
rather deep water mostly outside the active coastal zone. Most of this the sand is lost for the
coastal system. Consequently, sooner or later, depending on the volume of sand that is annually
lost in this way, coastal erosion will occur.
It is believed that, in spite of the extensions of the breakwaters, the future deepening and widening
of the access channel will distinctly increase the annual maintenance dredging and with it the sand
loss from the coastal zone. It is believed that this will have a far more serious impact on the coast
than the extension of the southern breakwater. In fact, the latter will reduce extra sand loss from
the southern coast to the access channel. Initially, this sand loss from the coast will be hardly
noticeable because the sand comes from long sections of the coast on both sides of the outlet
and the coastal regression will be very gradual.
To reduce this negative impact it is advised to dump the clean sandy spoil from the access
channel as closely as possible near the beach at a distance of a few kilometres on both sides of
the outlet.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-5                       September1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                           HR
HARRIS
5.4 IMPACT ON SALT INTRUSION INTO THE LAGOON
The Curonian lagoon is a large water body with a total surface area of 1584 km2 . The southern
and central portions of the lagoon are freshwater due to discharge from the Nemunas River and
other smaller rivers. The predominant water flow is from the south to the north, i.e. in the direction
of the Klaipeda Strait and subsequently the sea.
However, the northern part of the lagoon and the Klaipeda Strait are influenced by seawater
intrusions from the Baltic Sea. These salt water (salinity 7%o) intrusions happen about 40 times
per year and usually last 1 to 2 days.
Sometimes intermediate conditions occur in the Strait. In those cases a fresh water surface layer
flows from the lagoon to the sea, whereas a salt water bottom layer flows from the sea to the
lagoon.
These rapid and irregular water exchanges cause large fluctuations in temperature, salinity and
other characteristics in the Klaipeda Strait and the northern part of the lagoon.
Based on the findings of long term monitoring it can be stated that salt water intrusions into the
lagoon strongly varies, but the sea always influences the Klaipeda Strait. In the winter salt water
could penetrate 20 or even 50 km north into the lagoon. Due to mixing salinity levels will be much
lower than at sea, but salinity levels of 0.06%o have been measured near Nida. During calm
weather periods in the summer, salt water penetrates into the Strait reaching salinity levels around
3.8%o.
The strongest salt water intrusion event since 1954 was recorded in 1977 when during September
of that year fresh water was only left in the Nemunas and Minija river mouths, while near
Juodkrante salinity levels reached 5.0 - 6.0%o.
Aquatic life has adapted to these more or less continuously changing environmental conditions.
Bottom macrofauna in the affected areas is permanently a mixture of marine, brackish and fresh
water species. The pelagic system (e.g. fish species) is characterised by the salinity levels and
can be divided into limnic (freshwater), frontal (brackish) and marine (salt water).
As the dredging works in the port will reduce the hydraulic resistance in the Strait (see Section
5.1) and consequently increase the exchange of water between the sea and the lagoon, an effect
on salt intrusion is eminent.
In a worst case scenario, the dredging works would lead to a 4% increase in the volume of salt
water into the lagoon. It is difficult to indicate the area affected, as depending on the conditions the
salt water will be mixed with fresh water and transported by currents to result in a variety of salinity
gradients. If all the additional salt water would remain together as one mega-drop, the area
affected by this volume of water would be approximately 1.3 km' and 5.6 km' for most common
inflow of 850 m3/s and the extreme condition of 3500 m /s respectively. On the basis of the total
surface area of the lake of 1584 km2, this would mean an insignificant area.
No doubt the dredging works will cause a slight increase in volume of salt water that will enter the
lagoon during intrusions. However, the volume increase is considered to be relatively small and
much smaller than the natural fluctuations. Consequently it is concluded that the dredging works
will not lead to significant changes in the salinity levels in the lagoon or to significant ecological
changes.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-6                         September1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            9
HARRIS
5.5 IMPACT ON NAVIGATIONAL CONDITIONS
PRESENT SITUATION
The present port entrance
(see Figure 5-1) exists of an
access channel which runs in                                             . .  ....
the direction of 092.50 N. The  !                               l, :           . , ' - -
direction   of  the  channel             !.
changes   to   1 15.50    N
approximately 200 m  within
the port as measured from the
line connecting the breakwater
heads. The  depth  of this           ......
channel is maintained at 11.4    --.-. - ,...... \-                               .
m  with  reference  to  chart                         -    .Q    .
datum. In the channel one-way          i./     .                            C)
traffic is allowed only. Ships                                " !               C:
with draughts over 7 m. must
use the channel.
In the recent past a number of             .                     ,
accidents occurred with ships               i
running out of control at the                                                        _
entrance of Klaipeda Port.
Over the last 15 years four
major accidents occurred. In    Figure 5-1   Existing characteristics of
two of these cases the ship                  the port Entrance
was wrecked and in one case
there was major damage to a quay and cranes. One of the accidents involved a tanker and
resulted in a large oil spill. Taking the traffic volume into consideration four major accidents in
such a short period is clearly too high.
Especially entering or departing loaded vessels of 20,000 DWT and larger compose a source of
potential danger. These ships must follow the relatively narrow channel itself and negotiate an
abrupt 230 bend, not wider then the channel itself, located directly at the entrance. When inbound
this leads to relatively high speeds in order to be able to compensate for wind, waves and current
while sailing within the channel limits. Slowing down or stopping occurs relatively close to the oil
terminals (Ni through N3).
Furthermore, the length of the breakwaters provides insufficient protection against waves to the
tugs to allow them to assist these vessels should assistance be required. Tugs, which are stand-
by to immediately provide assistance when an emergency situation develops, are called escort
tugs. Escorting generally requires dedicated tugs, which can operate in higher waves and at
higher speeds than tugs assisting manoeuvres such as berthing. The tugs, which are presently
available, are unable to assist in significant wave heights over 1 m and are therefore not
considered as escorting tugs.
If tankers must leave the oil terminals under emergency conditions, only a relatively small distance
is available to accelerate to a sufficiently high speed and an adequate course to depart safely from
the sheltered harbour area.
The wind is the main determining condition. The wind is the driving force behind waves and
currents. Therefore the wind force and its direction are the environmental variables determining
the limits for entry and departure. Additionally the size of the vessel, the position of the berth in
question and the direction of the manoeuvre (entry or departure) are of influence on the
acceptable environmental limits. The position of the berth is of influence, as the wave height at the
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-7                         September1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                               s
HARRIS
berths becomes lower if the position of the berths is further into the port. As the operational limit of
the significant wave height of the tugs is presently 1 m, tugs may be able to operate at the
KLASCO port and inner port, while not being able to operate at the oil berths.
Independent of the direction or force of the wind, swell may exist in rare cases. Arriving ships will
not enter if the swell is over 2.5 m in height. Ships will not depart if the swell is over 3 m in height.
Vessels below 7000 tons dead-weight have a draught less tha,n 7 m and these ships are not
bound to the channel limits. In the case that a ship is not bound to the channel limits, the
manoeuvring area increases to such an extent that more favourable tracks and headings can be
followed than possible within the channel limits.
In its present state the nautical safety of the port is below any international standard.
THE PLANNED SITUATION
Mitigating measures aiming primarily at improving the nautical safety for ships entering and
leaving the port have been studied by Delft Hydraulics and MSCN (1996-1997). For detailed
descriptions of the alternative designs and suggested mitigation measures reference is made to
these reports.
In total eight different possible
harbour entrance layouts were                         :.!    ...........
developed and tested on the |
basis of computer simulations. i
The selected design, of which
the principle characteristics are
shown in Figure 5-2, include the
following improvements.:        i
*additional stopping  length
through  extension  of the
breakwaters;                  ---
widening of the channel;
*  improvement of the bend of
the channel;-
*  realignment of the  inner
channel;
*  creation of stopping area
with sufficient width.
The    merits    of   these
improvements  are  discussed   Figure 5-2      Principle characteristics new port
hereafter.                                     entrance design
ADDITIONAL STOPPING LENGTH AND BETTER WAVE PROTECTION THROUGH EXTENSION OF BREAKWATERS
Ships approaching a harbour under near limiting environmental conditions must sail with a certain
speed. This is so because wind, waves and current would push the ship out of the channel at low
speeds. In order to counter these effects-the.ship sails under an angle (drift angle) with the
channel axis. The more severe the conditions, the more speed the ship needs to stay in the
channel. Large drift angles form a potential source of danger, because sudden changes in the
external conditions (for instance a sudden drop in wind or a current gradient) can make the ship
collide with the channel boundaries.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-8                         September1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                              R
HARRIS
Wind and waves create a moment on ships. Vessels in loaded condition experience a moment
due to the superstructure aft on the ship. This effect is less pronounced or even absent if the
ships are in ballast or when the wind area stretches evenly over the entire length as is the case for
container vessels and ro-ro vessels. To counter the wind-moment effect the ship must sail with a
more or less constant rudder angle. This means that there is less "spare" rudder angle available
for the ship to use to negotiate a turn or in an emergency. Again under more severe conditions,
more speed is needed to maintain sufficient pressure on the rudder.
Generally, the environmental forces become larger with increasing vessel size. This is even more
unpleasant because the size of the rudder and the propulsion increase less than proportionally
with the size of the vessel (especially larger bulk carriers and oil tankers), i.e. large vessels are
less manoeuvrable and need long distances to stop.
When stopping a ship, the propeller must produce astern thrust while the ship is still going ahead.
In this situation the flow around the rudder is so confused that the rudder is totally ineffective.
At present the available stopping length for ships entering Klaipeda is relatively short and the
stopping manoeuvre takes place close to the oil berths. This is undesirable because (as explained
above) it is impossible to control a ship when it is decelerating without tug assistance. Tug
assistance may be difficult to provide because there is often too much wave action for the tugs to
be effective. Consequently creating additional protected length beyond the present breakwater
limits which means extension of (both) the breakwaters will certainly improve navigational safety.
Other positive effects of the extensions are:
*  The bend will now be located further inside the harbour entrance and outside the area of
cross-current. This means that the ship requires less use of rudder increasing the safety
margins.
*  Under operational conditions, ships of the same size approaching the harbour will be able to
reduce their speed to under 6 knots (present speed limit inside the harbour) when passing the
oil terminals.
*  With the additional wave protection the tugs will now be able to pull the ship from the (oil)
berths in case of an emergency or when the ship starts exhibiting motions which are above
the acceptable limits. The latter increases the flexibility of the port because otherwise ships
have to leave berth long before this is necessary from a motions point of view, as otherwise
the tugs will not be able to assist them. Wave penetration at the oil berths will be reduced
from about 60% in the existing situation (west and north west wave directions) to about 35 %
after implementation of the breakwater extension (see Section 5.2). This means that tugs can
be fully effective under all required conditions.
*  Ships having to leave under emergency conditions will have sufficient room to accelerate to
about seven knots without using a "harbour full" telegraph setting and will be able to safely
leave the harbour by further increasing the pressure on the rudder with a higher telegraph
setting.
*  The increased wave protection reduces the motions of the moored ships.
A distinct disadvantage of the extended breakwaters is an increase (by approximately 30%) in the
current velocity across the harbour entrance.
WIDENING OF CHANNEL
As mentioned above a ship sails through a channel with a drift angle in order to counter wind,
waves and current. The narrower the channel is, the smaller the drift angle will have to be in order
to keep the ship inside the channel boundaries, while maintaining certain safety margins.
Decreasing a drift angle can only be achieved by increasing the ship's speed, which is not always
desirable from a safety point of view especially when entering the harbour.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental ImpactAssessment   5-9                          September1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            ml
HARRIS
The width of the first leg of the present channel is not more than 100 m. This is less than the
recommendation by PIANC for mild conditions and one way traffic. The PIANC recommends the
width of a channel equal to at least five times the width of the design vessel. In addition, the
environmental conditions at Klaipeda must be classified as moderate.
The full mission real time manoeuvring simulations show that the required channel width for
vessels up to 30,000 DWT is 140 m.
Thle width of the secondA leg is 75 m. Even though the wave ciimate along this leg of the channel
can be classified as mild, the local wind climate must be classified as moderate. Therefore, the
width of the second leg of the channel must be at least equal to the first leg of the channel.
A wider channel means improved safety because:
* when sailing with the same speed as in a narrower channel there is more "spare" room in
case of emergencies, and/or
* when using (part of) the additional channel width the ship can sail with lower speeds, thus
increasing safety when entering the harbour.
IMPROVEMENT OF THE BEND IN THE CHANNEL
In the existing situation (see Figure 5-1) the channel has a bend of some 230 just inside the port
entrance. This exposes the bend to much wave agitation, which is undesirable from a
manoeuvring point of view. Besides, the channel at this point is not wider than the channel itself,
which is also undesirable from a manoeuvring point of view.
The bend itself will allow the large majority of ships to follow their natural tendency to turn to
starboard during stopping. Besides, the increased channel surface area at the location of the bend
allows the ships some space to drift sideways. Therefore they can maintain astern revolutions
longer and also can profit from the fact that stopping distances of ships decrease considerably if
the ship is allowed to drift sideways.
REALIGNMENT OF INNER CHANNEL
The close proximity of the northern shore to the channel is undesirable for two reasons:
1. Safety considerations based on the nature of the cargo transferred at these berths require as
much distance as possible between traffic in the channel and the berthed ships.
2. Traffic is permitted to pass the berths at a speed of 6 knots. This puts considerable strain on
the mooring cables of the berthed ships and therefore constitutes a danger to the berthed
ships and the cargo transfer operations.
The best option for the orientation of the second leg of the channel is to have it parallel to the axis
of the harbour entrance. At the moment it narrows towards the northern shore.
Therefore, it is required to realign the inner channel to the south. The inner channel will then be
located further away from the existing berths which increases the safety and will also be located in
the protected area of the breakwaters, allowing for better tug assistance.
CREATION OF STOPPING AREA WITH ENOUGH WIDTH
For ships performing a stopping manoeuvre it is impossible to control their heading without the
assistance of tugs or bow thrusters. During the stopping manoeuvre ships have a natural
tendency to turn to starboard (right hand turning propellers) or to port (left hand turning
)         propellers). Caution should be exercised, as the tendency to turn due to the effect of the propeller
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-10                        September 999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            s
HARRIS
is not always predictable. Also, under the influence of wind the ships will be set to starboard or
port.
Ships cannot control these effects because during the stopping their rudder is ineffective.
Therefore the channel has to be widened locally in the stopping area to create the necessary
space to allow the ships to drift during stopping.
The required width of the stopping area is approximately 1.5 times the channel width, which will
give sufficient space and will even allow the ship to turn in the channel if necessary.
Summarising it can be stated that the planned new layout with an improved inner and outer
access channel and extended breakwaters, which will give better protection against wave action
to the inner channel and the oil and Klasco berths, will result in improved navigational conditions
and safety.
For specific information about the exact design characteristics for both the dredging and the
breakwaters reference is made to the related design documents.
5.6 IMPACT ON ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS
In its present state the nautical safety of the port is below any international standard, and accident
risks clearly exist not only in theory, but also in practice.
The Oil Terminal berths are located too close to the entrance channel creating a risk that a
passing vessel will collide with oil tankers at berth, causing an oil spill. This situation is even more
critical under adverse sea and weather conditions.
Under the present configuration of the entrance channel, when the external wave heights exceed
one meter, tugs cannot provide assistance to ships beyond the breakwater heads. This is due to
insignificant reduction in wave height at that location and inability of tugs to operate in wave
heights exceeding one meter. It creates another risk of oil spill since a non-tug-assisted tanker or
other ship may hit the breakwaters.
The modification of the existing breakwaters, proposed under the project, will result in a reduction
of the distance between the breakwater heads to reduce wave disturbance inside the port. This
will increase navigational safety considerably. Besides, the increased width and depth of the
entrance channel, as well the re-alignment of the second leg (see Section 5.5) will also greatly
improve the navigational safety of the port. Consequently, the project will result in reduced risks of
accidents and oil spills.
5.7  IMPACT ON AQUATIC LIFE
REDIRECTION OF OUTFLOW OF THE LAGOON
It may be foreseen that the area effected by the oufflow of the Lagoon will be changed due to
extension of the breakwaters. It's likely that the oufflow, which now is often directed along the
shore by prevailing currents and westerly winds, after the reconstruction will take a position further
to the sea.
Consequently, it may be expected that the number of days when the Lagoon's water occupies the
near shore areas will decrease. This may result in improvement of light conditions in the coastal
biotopes. Now the outflow is considered to be one of the most important factors, which depress
development of benthic vegetation in these areas. The lagoon's water contains huge amounts of
suspended material and phytoplankton, especially in summer and early autumn. Therefore it is
probable that general conditions for the stony bottoms vegetation north of the port entrance (i.e.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-11                        september1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
red algae) may improve. If this happens the territory of spawning grounds suitable for e.g. Baltic
herring may increase too.
After the extension of the breakwaters the oufflow of water will not only be further in sea, but also
its initial direction will change from north-west to west. Depending on local sea currents this may
result in an effect on water quality south of the port entrance. Consequently, the Klaipeda Maritime
Aquarium, which takes in seawater at this point, may face water quality problems.
NEW SUBSTRATES
The extension of the breakwaters will create new substrates for benthic life. As a result the area of
rocky hard substrates (concrete, rocks and tetrapods) will increase approximately for 30-40 %.
These substrates are especially important for benthic vegetation (mainly filamentous green algae),
sessile animals (barnacles, mussels, etc.) and associated mobile fauna like benthopelagic
crustaceans and demersal fishes. Total filtration capacity of the barnacles and mussels dwelling
on the newly extended breakwaters will increase too. New artificial biotopes will serve as
additional spawning grounds for Baltic herring and other fish. Locally, at the breakwaters, the
biodiversity of marine life will increase.
RISK ASSOCIATED WITH INCREASED VOLUMES OF SHIPS BALLAST WATERS
As a consequence of the project it is to be expected that ship traffic from and to the port will
increase. The increase in size and number of ships entering the port will result in increased risk of
alien species invasions. This risk is associated with ballast waters, which are released from the
ships in the vicinity of, or inside the port. Proper measures (see appropriate IMO guidelines)
should be taken in order to minimise this risk. This is especially important for the Lagoon and
Klaipeda Strait, which already harbour 18 alien species.
CHANGES IN THE LAGOON ECOSYSTEM
As the dredging works in Klaipeda strait will increase, the total area of temporal defaunated
benthic zones will increase too. Assuming that the volume of inflowing marine waters will not
increase significantly (see Section 5.4), the changes in the species composition in the lagoon are
not expected. However the densities of species of marine origin may slightly increase. Also the
area of their penetration into the Lagoon is likely to extend for some kilometres. Consequently the
frontal (transitory) zone which is relatively rich in species will widen too.
Significant changes in plankton communities are not expected since the water exchange pattern
(i.e. seasonal changes and inflow frequency) is not altered.
5.8  IMPACT ON FISHERIES
Besides the positive effect of the new breakwaters in relation to the increased surface area for
spawning and shelter, no significant effects on fisheries are expected.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   5-12                         September1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          RIS
HARRIS
6   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT DURING
CONSTRUCTION
The most dominant construction activities of the project are the dredging and disposal
operations, and the construction of the new breakwaters. Both construction activities can have a
variety of impacts on the environment and are discussed in this section in relation to the
following possible impact areas:
* dredging and disposal on water quality, including turbidity (6.1)
* the construction of the breakwaters on water quality (6.2)
* on aquatic life (6.3)
* on fisheries (6.4)
* dredging on the stability of the existing breakwaters (6.5)
* on navigation and port operations (6.6)
* on urban land traffic (6.7)
* on recreation (6.8)
* pollution caused by the equipment used (6.9)
6.1   IMPACT OF DREDGING AND DISPOSAL ON WATER QUALITY
The increase in turbidity during dredging and disposal operations is one of the most important
factors of the physical impact on water quality. It is the visible cloudiness associated with
turbidity that can cause considerable unfavourable public response to some dredging projects.
Increased levels of suspended sediments can also effect aquatic ecology and water intake
systems. The aspects of resuspension of sediments and increased turbidity levels will be
discussed in more detail below.
Among the important chemical impacts are changes in oxygen concentration, uptake and
release of nutrients and uptake and release of toxins. It is generally recognised that some
oxygen loss will occur when any sediment is exposed to oxygenated water, but the magnitude of
the loss will depend on the particular sediment and the chemical and physical factors in the
dredging and disposal environment. In view of the relatively low production rates and the open
character of the water body, these effects are expected to be negligible.
The quality of the sediments to be dredged has been investigated (see Section 4.4.3). The
laboratory results showed that the majority of the sediments, i.e. all the sediments in the
Worldbank dredging area and the glacial till sediments in the entire project area, are clean or
only slightly contaminated. Significant release of contaminants from these sediments is therefore
not to be expected. However, a part of the sediments of the project area, i.e. the soft surface
sediments in the LEI dredging area, are contaminated (class 3 level of contamination according
Lithuanian classification system). In the LEI report it is indicated that the quantity of
contaminated sediments is relatively small and that there is no objection to dump these
sediments at sea. Consequently no special precautions will be taken in this respect, not in
relation to the selection of the dredging -techn-ique, nor in relation to the disposal of these
sediments.
It is the viewpoint of the Worldbank study team, that this approach is not in line with the concept
of environmental protection, or the international attempts to improve the water quality of the
Baltic Sea. Under the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme,
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   6-1                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         0
HARRIS
Klaipeda was identified as one of the pollution "hot spots" in Lithuania. Measures to improve the
water quality in and around Klaipeda are therefore listed as priority actions under the Baltic Sea
Programme approved by the regional Ministers of Environment at Helsinki (April 1992) and
Gdansk (March 1993).
Both the planned dredging and the disposal of contaminated sediments into the Baltic Sea will
have a negative effect on marine life and fisheries. Depending on the location of dumping, a part
of the contaminated sediments might even end up on the beaches. The problem of the
contaminated sediments and options for a more environmentally sound approach to this problem
are discussed in Section 7.2 of this EIA.
6.1.1   Background Information on Turbidity
One of the most visible aspects of dredging and open water disposal is the resuspension of
sediments and resulting increased turbidity levels. These two parameters are not identical.
Turbidity is related to the transmission of light through a liquid medium, whereas suspended
sediments are related to the weight of the solids in the water. However, the two are interrelated
and for a specific site a relationship between the two can be established.
It was long thought that the resuspension of sediments and visible turbidity plumes had a very
negative effect on water quality and aquatic life. Therefore, in the past two decades a large
number of studies were conducted by various researchers to assess the basics of resuspension
of sediments (turbidity generation), as well as the physical, chemical and biological impacts on
the aquatic environment. The results of these studies indicate that all conventional dredgers
generate turbidity in the vicinity of the dredger to a varying degree depending on the type of the
dredger, the characteristics of the sediment and the dredging and disposal methods used.
However, the turbidity is usually of a short duration and normal conditions are restored in a short
time. Furthermore many studies indicated that turbidity generated by natural causes (e.g.
currents, waves, floods and storms), are often quite high and affect a much larger area when
compared to dredging operations.
During the past decade the attention to resuspension of sediments has increased in view of the
fact that more and more sediments were found to be contaminated. Consequently several
measures were developed to reduce turbidity in order to prevent contaminants from spreading
(see also Section 7.2).
RESUSPENSION AND DISPERSION
The nature, degree, and extent of dredged material dispersion around a dredging or disposal
operation are controlled by many factors, including:
*  the quantity and characteristics of the sediments, like grain size distribution, solids
concentration, etc.
*  the type and size of the dredger and the dredging/disposal techniques and the operational
procedures used.
*  the local environmental conditions, including salinity, currents, waves, tides, storms, floods,
etc.
Generation of turbidity and its retention is greatly affected by the settling velocity of the sediment
particles, which in turn depends on the size of the particles. When the sediment size is less than
50 pm (1 pm =1 micron = 0.001 mm) in diameter, the settling velocity of the particle follows
)         Stoke's law. When the particle size is greater than 50 pm, it follows Rubey's law. In Stoke's law
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   6-2                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                              HRI
HARRIS
the settling velocity is proportional to the square of the diameter of the sediment particle,
whereas in Rubey's law the settling velocity is proportional to the square root of the particle
diameter. In any case, the larger the size of the particle the faster the settling rate.
Figure 6-1 gives the relationship between the particle size and the settling velocity. Using the
relationship of this figure, the distance travelled by a particle of a specific size under the
influence of a current can be determined. The formula for the travel distance is:
Distance travelled = 0.6 D T V meters
where:
D = depth of the water in meters
V = current velocity in cm/sec
T = time required to fall through 100 cm, obtained from the graph
100000       _  _ _  _  _  _                 .    _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _
S__ _   1c 9-raty: 2650 kg/ml3
i             I I       j z   T.mperature: 20' C
I e   I   I I S    i ! V1seo.iry: 0.000001 m2/_
:    Stoke's law: pars  0.05 mm
10000    ~ - -                                    *    Ruttey's law: p-rl-.-et  O.0 .m
- ____                           EJest ftling cre: T-0.0156   0
I I1   1 _ _ _ _ _      1              _ _ _ _ _ _   1_ _l_ _ll_ 
1000                         -                           l      l   l  l l l l l
1 t 00                          T      V      k
I _  _ _    I_                             _ _ I_  __II I       I -   I  I  I  +
1~ ~ ~       ~                                         a-
100~~~~   ~      ~~~ j- 4  ........J.....J...4L  ;_____  i    ~~-~ I '- -I
0.001 1.oto                                                               o.too
__arrmter (_ _ _)
Figure 6-1       Particle size and settling time
For example:
A sediment particle of 100 pm (fine sand) released at the surface of the project area (12 meters
of water depth and current velocity of 10 cm/sec in the outer sea channel) will travel only 144
meters (0.6 x 12 x 2 x 10 = 144), before it is back on the bottom. Coarser sand of 200 pm will
resettle within approximately 3 minutes and will travel no further than approximately 50 meters.
In this simplification, the effects of turbulence on falling particles, variations in vertical density
and temperature have been ignored. Also the current velocity has been considered to be uniform
over the vertical plane. In the project area considerable variations in magnitude and direction of
currents are experienced at different depths. It is however interesting to note that using the
average vertical current velocity on the vertical results in a rather accurate value of the distance
travelled.
H7371     Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment  6-3                                          September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                             I
HARRIS
So, although this relationship greatly simplifies the behaviour of sediment particles in the water,
it does demonstrate why the vast majority of sediment particles resettles quite quickly and why
turbidity plumes are only found rather close to the dredger.
Obviously the smaller the particles the longer they will stay in suspension and the further they will
travel. However flocculation is another important factor in sediment motion and is a process by
which fine particles suspend in a fluid combine (floc) to form a mass of particles and eventually
settle to the bottom. The great majority of particles involved in flocculation are clays. Clays
flocculate most readily when the pH is less than 7, which is the case in the study area.
Given a set of environmental conditions, different types of dredgers generate different levels of
turbidity. Though the type of dredging equipment has a major effect on the amount and
concentration of sediment that is resuspended, the techniques for operating this equipment are
considered equally important. This has become very clear during the recent studies on dredging
contaminated sediments in the Netherlands and the United States. With dredging contaminated
sediments the resuspension of contaminated sediments and possible release of contaminants
have to be minimised. Several studies have demonstrated that the resuspension of sediments,
using the same dredger, varies considerably depending on the operational methods used.
During the past five years 22 dedicated monitoring campaigns on resuspension of sediments
were carried out in the Netherlands, with different types of dredgers and different types of
sediments, including clays, silts and sands. The results confirmed the results of similar studies
carried out in the United States, that the amount of sediments resuspended during dredging
ranges from 0 to 5% of the volume dredged. However, it was also clearly demonstrated that this
amount is not directly related to the type of dredger. Using a grab dredger the percentage of
resuspended material ranged from 0.5 to 5%, whereas using a trailing suction hopper dredger
the percentage ranged from 0.2 to 4.5 %. The operational technique used and the local
characteristics play an important role.
It should be remembered that though activities like dredging and disposal are contributing to the
increase in turbidity and suspended material levels, there are several other natural and man-
made causes that generate considerable amounts of turbidity in open water, e.g. currents,
waves, tides, storms, seasonal floods, shipping traffic, fisheries activities, etc. In many cases
turbidity caused by storms and waves is quite high.
In the Klaipeda Strait the natural concentrations of suspended sediments throughout the year
fluctuate from 3 to more than 60 mg/I. Suspended sediment levels in the nearshore area are
lower, ranging from 2 to more than 20 mg/I. However these data are based on calm weather
conditions. Unfortunately no data are available for stormy periods, to demonstrate the
sometimes enormous effect of natural causes on turbidity levels in the study area. Especially in
estuaries and river systems turbidity is not distributed evenly over the water column, resulting in
considerable differences between two nearby locations. Figure 6-2 shows an example of the
differences in turbidity levels near the head of the southern breakwater during calm weather
conditions.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6-4                       September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         HRI
HARRIS
Figure 6-2   Sediment transport near South breakwater head
6.1.2  Evaluation of the dredging induced resuspension of sediments
In the project area, the following three types of dredging activities are foreseen (although it is
mentioned that the selected contractor will determine the final choice of the dredging
equipment):
*a sand layer will be removed by a trailing suction hopper dredger.
*a boulder clay layer will be dredged by a backhoe dredger
*a sandy/silt layer and a boulder clay layer will excavated by a bucket dredger
With a trailing suction hopper dredger a suction pipe directly excavates the bottom sediments.
The excavated material is picked up and pumped by a centrifugal pump into the ships own
hopper. The majority of the sand particles will settle in the hopper, whereas excess water and a
part of the fine sediment particles will be discharged back into the water via the so-called
overflow, resulting in resuspended sediments and turbidity. This process is continued till the
hopper is sufficiently loaded. The sand layer outside the present breakwaters contains relatively
little silt. Consequently, the largest portion of the resuspended sediments will resettle in the
vicinity of the dredger. The finer particles will stay longer in suspension and may travel further
along the coast. At a distance of approximately 500 meters of the dredger, suspended sediment
levels will have dropped to levels below that of a normal storm. In this respect it is to be noted
that under stormy conditions resuspension and displacement of sediments can cause bottom
levels changes in this area of over 1 meter.
Dredging of the boulder clay in this offshore area will probably be carried out with a backhoe
dredger. The very hard boulder clay is not easily erodable and consequently excavation of this
type of sediment is not expected to result in large resuspensions of sediments. No doubt to
some extent resuspension will occur. This will be mainly at the bottom due to the excavation
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   6-5                        September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          H
HARRIS
process and at the surface due to the overflow of the barges during loading. This latter effect can
be minimised by putting restrictions on allowed overflow.
Dredging of the boulder clay inside the port area with a bucket dredger will more or less result in
the same effects as with the backhoe. However, in this area a sandy silt layer will be dredged as
well. It is anticipated that the removal of this layer will lead to more resuspension of sediments.
Especially in those areas where the sediments are contaminated this may lead to negative
effects on the environment (dispersion of contamination). Consequently, resuspension and
dispersion of contaminated sediments should be prevented as much as possible. No doubt this
will require adaptation of the dredging methodology.
Where the resuspended sediments will resettle will mainly depend on the current conditions and
water turbulence. A part of the resuspended sediments may settle on the stones of the
breakwaters. During certain parts of the year these breakwaters function as spawning places for
the Baltic herring, and settling of sediments may smother the eggs. According the rules of the
Minister of the Environment it is already foreseen that during these periods dredging in this area
is restricted (also see Section 6.4).
Based on the above, and the fact that these sediments are not contaminated, it is to be
expected that these dredging works will only have a small and temporary effect on water quality.
Natural conditions will be restored within hours after the dredging works have stopped.
6.1.3  Evaluation of the disposal induced resuspension of sediments
Two types of disposal are foreseen in relation to the planned dredging works, i.e. nearshore
disposal of sandy sediments and offshore disposal for the remaining sediments.
NEARSHORE DISPOSAL OF SAND
Investigations by the LEI have revealed that the sand dredged from the entrance channel of the
Klaipeda port would be fit for beach and dune ridge recultivation in the Curonian spit, Melnrage II
- Karkle and Nemirsieta sectors. This sand would also be helpful in forming the absolutely
degraded foredune in the sector between the northern breakwater and Melnrage I. As the beach
inclinations in these sectors are sufficiently great, the waves would only reach the ridge during
extreme storms. If reinforced with plants this foredune ridge will remain functional for a long time.
Recultivation of the area would be optimal, if the grain sizes of the dredged sediments are the
same as those in the naturally developed coastal sector. Smaller particles, as a rule, form a
nearshore with a smaller inclination. Besides, they are gradually carried down slope to greater
depths. Particles of greater size are gradually buried in the mass of smaller particles. However,
they are more fit for recultivation than the small ones.
An eroding coast is one of the possible ecological problems related with the deepening of the
Klaipeda port till the depth of 14 m (see Section 5.3). By relocating the dredged sediments within
the coastal system, both for the capital dredging works and the following maintenance dredging
works, this problem -is expected to be solved completely. This would also be the most rational
and cheap way of stabilising the coastline in the7Impact zone of the Klaipeda port.
In relation to this project two types of coast recultivation can be used: beach/dune replenishment
and foreshore replenishment.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6-6                       September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                             I
HARRIS
With beach/dune replenishment sand is brought onto the beach. This can be done in a variety of
ways: e.g. by pipeline directly into the work or to a stockpile, by "rainbowing" from the trailing
suction hopper dredger, etc.
With foreshore replenishment sand is placed at the shallow foreshore. This can be done by
pipeline, but most commonly by direct dumping from the hopper or barges.
With beach replenishment the amount of suspended sediment released in the water is less than
with foreshore replenishment, as the sand is washed into the sea in smaller amounts and at
slower rates. However, both techniques are regularly used all over the world and seldom lead to
negative environmental effects. Also for this project, the beneficial use of clean sandy sediments
is not expected to have significant detrimental environmental effects.
OFFSHORE DISPOSAL OF NON-CONTAMINATED AND CONTAMINATED DREDGE SEDIMENTS
At present all sediments dredged from the Klaipeda port are transported to marine disposal site
No. 3, which is located some 20 kilometres offshore. This disposal site is operational since 1987.
Investigations have shown that this dumpsite is located in a lithodinamically active zone. It was
found that material deposited here will rapidly spread over a substantial area. Sediment will even
be transported to the nearshore zone, where it will deposit at a depth of 20 - 25 m.
For the present project it is foreseen to dump all dredged sediments here, with the exception of
the re-usable sands.
The boulder clay is rocklike material and is likely to stay more or less at the site where it is
dumped. Over time the boulder clay will disintegrate and silt particles will be washed out. In view
of the water depth (>20 m) and the low current velocities this is expected to be a very slow
process. However, silty sediments are also dumped at this location and these sediments are
indeed expected to spread over a wider area.
As long as these sediments are not contaminated the effects on the aquatic environment are
relatively small and of a temporary nature. It goes without saying that the disposal of
contaminated silty sediment will result in a wide area being negatively affected. Besides, disposal
of contaminated sediments in open water will have a negative effect on water quality, as during
the dumping process a part of the contaminants will be released to the water column.
6.2  IMPACT OF CONSTRUCTION OF BREAKWATERS ON WATER QUALITY
The new breakwaters will be of the rubble mound type, with various layers of rock and concrete
material. The core of the breakwaters will be constructed by dumping quarry run or gravel using
dump barges and profiling the material using a pontoon mounted grab. Both quarry run and
gravel contain a certain volume of fine particles, which during dumping may resuspend in the
water column. Depending on the environmental characteristics at the place and time of dumping
(wave conditions, currents, etc.) the resuspended sediments will disperse to a wider area. As no
data are available regarding the quantity of fines in these building materials, little can be said
about the scale of this effect. In general however the quantities of fines in these materials are
rather small and the effects on water quality are small and of short duration.
6.3   IMPACT ON AQUATIC LIFE
Basically dredging and the disposal of dredged material and to a lesser degree breakwater
construction, constitute a process of artificially induced sediment erosion, transport and
deposition. The process differs from the natural one in being much more concentrated in time
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6-7                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          n
HARRIS
and space. Many organisms are not able to either adapt quickly or leave the affected
environment and consequently dredging and disposal will have an effect on aquatic life.
Dredging and disposal of bottom sediments can cause a variety of ecological impacts, but are
basically related to:
* removal of bottom sediments
* increased turbidity and changes in water quality
* bottom sediment build-up
The latter two also apply to breakwater construction, be it that with bottom sediment build up, the
construction of the breakwater is meant.
To scale the effects it is important to assess which part of the aquatic environment will be
affected, based on surface coverage as well as on ecological values. As most species live near
the water sediment surface (the so-called life-layer), the effects on benthic fauna will approxi-
mately be proportional to the surface area disturbed.
Secondly, it is important to differentiate between temporary and more long-term effects.
Increased levels of turbidity and changes in water quality are directly related to the actual
dredging and disposal/breakwater fill activities and will stop when these activities are stopped.
Removal of bottom material (at the dredging site), as well as bottom sediment build up (at the
disposal site), will have a longer lasting effect on benthic life, as it may take nature from one to
several years to recover by means of recolonisation.
Thirdly, it is important to realise that changes in the aquatic environment and especially in
coastal areas are normal phenomena: In the period 1746-1796 the Curonian Spit became 565 m
longer by natural processes. Water was transformed into land and land into water. During
periods of strong storms large volumes of marine sediments are transported into the Strait.
Sometimes the thickness of the sediment layer deposited exceeds 1 m in certain parts of the
harbour. In neither of these events, the loss of aquatic habitats is considered an environmental
problem.
REMOVAL OF BOTTOM SEDIMENTS
It will be evident that the present bottom in the dredging area, inclusive the organisms living in
and on the so-called life-layer (top 20 cm) will be removed. The total area affected by dredging is
approximately 1 kM2, of which 20% is located in the sea and 80% in the Klaipeda Strait. The
ecological value of the bottom in this area is limited, as a large part belongs to the existing
navigational channel where maintenance dredging is carried out on a regular basis, whereas
another part is covered with contaminated sediments.
Consequently the effect of the removal of the top layer of the bottom by dredging can be
considered of minor importance.
The sea area covered by the new breakwaters is negligible when compared to the remaining
coastal area.
INCREASED TURBIDITY AND CHANGES IN WATER QUA[lTY
As discussed in Section 6.1, the dredging and construction works will affect water quality. In the
vicinity of the dredgers, at the disposal site and at the breakwater construction site turbidity
levels will increase. The effects of increased turbidity are local and of a short-term nature.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6-8                       September 1999



K(laipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          ARS
HARRIS       
However in view of the presence of artificial spawning areas on the breakwaters, special care is
required (see 6.4)
BoTToM SEDIMENT BUILD-UP
At the sites where the breakwaters will be constructed, construction materials will cover the
existing bottom sediments. At the disposal site(s) sediments will be deposited on top of the
present bottom. In view of the characteristics of the sediments dumped at the offshore disposal
site, the original more or less flat seabed will be transformed into an area showing randomly
distributed  mounts of deposited sediments. In all related areas local benthic life will be
destroyed.
Besides, at the offshore disposal site and at the breakwater construction sites, the original
bottom is/was composed of sandy sediment, which will be replaced by more clayey sediments
and/or rock. These changes in sediment characteristics will affect the composition of the benthic
fauna during recolonisation. Recolonisation of the disposal site is expected to be slow.
EVALUATION OF THE IMPACTS
The effects of the construction works on aquatic life in the project area are considered small.
The effects of turbidity and suspended sediments will not cause significant or long-lasting effects
to the aquatic life. The dredging and the disposal areas will recover by recolonisation, but this
process is expected to take several years. The dredging activities might endanger or destroy the
spawning areas at the existing breakwaters if special precautions are not followed.
6.4   IMPACT ON FISHERIES
DREDGING AREA
The whole study area is practically free from natural spawning grounds for commercial fish.
However, the breakwaters serve as artificial spawning grounds for herring (see Section 4.6.1).
Besides, practically all year round in the Klaipeda Strait, being the only direct link between the
Baltic Sea and the Curonian lagoon, both anadromic (from the sea to the lagoon) and
catadromic (from the lagoon to the sea) migration takes place.
The most important periods for fish spawning migration are from April 1 to May 31 and from
August 16 to October 31.
Both dredging and the construction of the breakwaters may have detrimental effects on the
breakwater spawning areas and migrating fish, due to increased levels of resuspended
sediments. Especially smothering of the roe by settling sediment particles is expected to have a
very negative effect.
To safeguard both the artificial spawning grounds and the fish spawning migration, the ministry
of Environmental Protection has issued an order in relation to this topic called "On the
assessment of the effects of Klaipeda port dredging works on fishery". The full text of this Order
is included in Appendix B to this report.
The order states that dredging in the port, in the period of fish spawning migration (from April 1
to May 31 and from August 16 to October 31), shall only be done in case of urgent necessity and
provided that the following conditions are met:
* A plan of the dredging works must be prepared and co-ordinated with the Department of
Fish Supplies before the beginning of the works. The plan must contain information about
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6-9                       September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        H
HARRIS
concrete dredging sites, terms and range and provide measures for reducing the negative
effects on fish migration.
* In the course of dredging works the port, by its own expenses must carry out a monitoring
investigation of migration intensity and dredging works effects on migrating fish. If there is a
necessity certain corrections of the dredging works must be made in 24 hours. The
investigations must be carried out by specialists who are not subordinate to the port.
The Order also states that if dredging is carried out during the given period as a consequence of
necessity, a damage fee is to be paid for each m3 dredged. However, the damage fee is so low
(less than 1% of the normal m3 price), that it is not likely that this by itself will have an inhibiting
effect on dredging activities.
In view of the damage to fisheries the dredging and construction works can have, and in line with
the Order of the Ministry of the Environment, mitigating measures in this respect should be
taken. The most simple of these is to plan the execution of the works in periods not interfering
with those of spawning or intense migration.
A second mitigating measure is to minimise all causes of resuspension by adjusting dredging
and disposal techniques (limited or no overflow from dredgers and barges).
A third option is to prohibit dredging to be carried out in the whole width of the channel at a time.
However, this is not to be expected in view of ongoing shipping in the port areas.
A fourth option is to simply ban all dredging works in the entire area or specific areas, in order to
protect the breakwater spawning areas during certain periods. It is to be noted that all these
measured should be based on accurate and permanent biological monitoring in the area.
Secondly and equally important, all mitigating measures should be clearly stated in the dredging
contract.
DISPOSAL AREA
As part of the project more than 700.000 m3 of glacial till and silty sediments will be dumped at
the offshore disposal site No. 3, which is located approximately 20 kilometres south-west from
the port gates. This site is in operation as a disposal site for dredged sediments since 1987 and
at present more than 10 million m3 of dredged sediments have been dumped here. This includes
both clean and contaminated sediments.
An importanit consequence of the physical presence of dredged sediment disposal activities is
interference with fishery activities. This relates to both smothering of areas potentially used for
fisheries and bottom topography changes which causes these areas to become unsuitable for
certain types of fishing gear (bottom trawling).
Investigations carried out in 1998 by a mixed team of experts from i.a. the Fishery Research
Laboratory and the Klaipeda University have demonstrated that the disposal activities carried out
during the past ten years have been far from accurate. Most of the dumpings have taken place
outside the planned disposal area, probably as a consequence of inaccurate positioning or to
save money on fuel consumption by dumping at closer range to the port (see figure 6-3). In
total, the area where dredged sediments have been dumped is more than 9 times the surface
area of the official disposal site. This being a prime area for cod fishing, it will be clear that
considerable damage has been caused to the cod fishing industry, in which approximately 250
fishermen are active. Approximately 200 km2 of the sea bottom has become unsuitable for
bottom trawling fisheries.
In addition, one of the effects of dumping contaminated sediments at the offshore disposal sites
has also been recorded, as several flatfish species caught in the area (i.e. river flounder and
turbot) have skin diseases.
To minimise the negative effects of dumping of dredged sediments offshore, the following
aspects should be taken into account:
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   6-10                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                             t
HARRIS
*  Disposal should be restricted to the official boundaries of the No. 3 disposal site, as this area
has already been damaged considerably. In addition the bottom sediments present in this
area already consist for a large part of glacial till.
*  No new offshore disposal site should be initiated for disposal of dredged sediments, as this
will only increase the area unsuitable for fisheries. In addition, the plan for a new disposal
site at depths of 50 - 70 meters is not recommendable, as this depth is important from a cod
spawning point of view.
*  Contaminated sediments (above a certain level of contamination) should not be dumped at
sea, but should be stored in an environmentally sound way in a CDF (confined disposal
facility).
Klaipeda
Area unsuitable  for bottom  trawling  as a
consequence of dumping dredged materials
-~~~           fi --                                            / i:iI-
Area practically                                           .
covered with
boulder clay
_, , !s. {_g"||tg , Reorded mounds of
/~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~d dge se _diments
_ '- Offici~~cal boundary of 
_ 5 ' ' ~~~~~~~~~~disposal site No 3.
Figure 6-3: Offshore disposal site No. 3 and affected area.
6.5  IMPACT OF DREDGING ON THE STABILITY OF THE EXISITING
BREAKWATERS
When dredging to - 14 m is carried out near the existing breakwaters, the stability of these
breakwaters becomes at risk. The experts of Lenmorniiproekt as part of the LEI dredging study
studied this potential safety problem.
Based on the results of the stability calculations it was concluded that the stability of the southern
breakwater (and the coast of the Curonian Spit) is not at risk if the inclination of the slope is 1:7.
For the northern breakwater an inclination of the slope of 1:2.5 is sufficient to safeguard the
stability of the breakwater. By incorporating these stability aspects in the dredging design, this
potential dangerous impact has been eliminated._
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6-11                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HAIS
6.6  IMPACT ON NAVIGATION AND PORT OPERATIONS
It will be clear that during the construction activities, port operations and navigation should be
affected as little as possible. Due to the presence of dredging equipment, barges, pontoons,
anchor wires, construction areas, dredging and dumping operations, etc., some hindrance to
navigation and consequently port operations is unavoidable. During both the construction of the
breakwaters and the dredging operations, specific areas will be closed to navigation. By using a
trailing suction hopper dredger (TSHD) to remove the top sand layer hindrance to navigation is
strongly reduced, as the TSHD is not a stationary dredger. The backhoe hydraulic excavator on
a self-elevating platform as foreseen for dredging the boulder clay at the entrance channel, is not
dependent on an anchored wire system for mooring, so hindrance to navigation is reduced as
well. The bucket dredger on the other hand is expected to use a wired anchor system and will
consequently cause some hindrance to navigation. Carrying out the dredging works in smaller
strips, leaving ample space for ships to pass solves a part of this problem.
6.7   IMPACT OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES ON URBAN LAND TRAFFIC
The construction of the breakwaters involves some 270,000 m3 of rock and some 30,000 m3 of
concrete. It is not yet clear where the construction materials will come from and how they will be
transported to the construction site. If road transport is required for all or part of the construction
materials, e.g. trucks, a significant effect on road transport would be the result, including a
negative effect on air quality due to the emissions from exhausts of the vehicles. With rail or
maritime transport this effect would be negligible.
The same can be said about road transport by trucks of sand from a stockpile area to a beach or
dune area for replenishment, as this would involve large quantities of sand and consequently a
considerable number of trucks. These effects, although not crucial for the project, should be
reviewed carefully.
6.8  IMPACT ON RECREATION
Recreation on the beautiful sandy beaches north and south of the port entrance can be affected
in a number of ways. The worst that can happen is that a thin blanket of silt is deposited on the
beach. This effect can occur as a consequence of the dredging works in the Klaipeda Strait. It is
not guaranteed that this will occur, but if it does it will be local and of limited duration. In case the
environmental conditions along the coast would favour the presence of silt on the sandy
beaches, the large inflow of suspended sediments from the Curonian lagoon to the Baltic Sea
would have resulted in a thick layer of silt on the beaches already.
The dredged sands will be used for beach replenishment. Depending on the placing
methodology (on the beach or near shore) this will have a smaller or larger effect on recreation in
this area. The effect can be considered both negative and positive. Some people will find the
dredging works and pipelines annoying, whereas others see it as a tourist attraction in itself. It is
well known that beach replenishment projects in areas that are open to the public always attract
a lot of spectators. Consequently this effect is considered to be neutral.
However, special care should be taken in case of so-called mixed cargoes, i.e. when clay-balls or
silty sediments are present in the dredged sandy sediments. In view of the recreational value of
the beach areas, these cargoes should not be used for beach or dune replenishment. However,
when the cargoes contains limited amounts of clay-balls or silty sediments, they can be used for
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   6-12                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        9
HARRIS
foreshore replenishment. In case too much silt is present in the cargo, the load should not be
used for replenishment purposes, and should be redirected to the offshore disposal site.
6.9  POLLUTION DURING CONSTRUCTION
Pollution related to the construction activities can be caused by the equipment used, e.g.
dredgers, cranes, etc., and at the construction site(s), e.g. construction of concrete armour units,
storage and waste areas, etc.
POSSIBILITY OF OIL SPILLS FROM DREDGERS
The dredgers will probably bunker at the site. During bunkering activities oil spillage is the main
incident through which the aquatic environment may be affected. Fuel spillage might occur
principally by overflow and secondly during coupling and uncoupling of the hose. Accidental
spillage of oil or fuel can occur due to operations carried out with insufficient care, leaks (in e.g.
storage tanks, pipes, hoses) or accidents.
In order to minimise spillage the following measures have to be taken into account:
v Bunkering operations will only take place under safe weather and river conditions.
* The dredging operation will be stopped.
i The fuel tank will be sounded regularly during the bunkering operation to avoid spillage.
* All hoses will be sufficiently drained before being stowed.
OTHER SOURCES OF AQUATIC POLLUTION
Sanitary liquid waste originates from toilets, sinks, showers, laundry and galley. Although this
type of waste is oxygen consuming, it will be discharged in the surface waters, as the volumes
involved are small.
Industrial liquid waste is water containing oily substances originating from e.g. engine room,
pump room and decks (bilge water). In this respect it is to be checked if the dredgers (especially
the TSHD and the bucket dredger) are provided with a separator in compliance to the Marpol
Convention. In this way the bilge water is separated into sludge oil and purified water. The water
is pumped overboard and the sludge oil will remain on board in a sludge oil tank and will be
disposed of later in the port.
Pumproom water is not separated, due to the relatively large quantities that result when opening
the pumps. The water is directly pumped overboard.
Chemicals on board of the vessels might cause a potential risk for water pollution. It concerns
mainly the following items: fuel, lubricant oil, hydraulic oil, grease, chemicals (water treatment,
anti-freeze, degreasing products), paint, sludge (cleaning water containing oily substances).
Although usually the quantities of these chemicals are low, they should be properly stored in the
engine room, engine room store or paint store-roo.m.
The hydraulic installations on deck form a potential source of water pollution as rainwater might
drain hydraulic oil, spilled on deck due to possible leakages, over board. Spillage of oil from the
hydraulic installation should be kept at a minimum by adequate maintenance of the hydraulic
installation and timely replacements of worn parts.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   6-13                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                      a
HARRIS
Solid waste like household waste, engine room wastes (e.g. cotton filters, grease, etc.) and deck
waste should be stored in garbage containers and disposed of in the port.
CONSTRUCTION AND WORKING SITES
After completion of the construction activities, the Contractor should ciear the working and
construction sites. All forms of waste should be removed, whereas places with soil pollution (if
any) should be treated.
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    6-14                              September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      9
HARRIS
7   ANALYSES OF ALTERNATIVES
7.1  OPTIONS FOR BENEFICIAL USE OF DREDGED SEDIMENTS
The main purpose of the dredging works at Klaipeda Port is to give larger vessels improved and
safe access to the port. Dredging is considered vital to the commercial activities, but clearly also
with respect to navigational safety of the Port. Perhaps the greatest problem concerning the
dredging operations is what to do with the material that is dredged.
Till today, all dredged sediments from both capital and maintenance dredging works in the study
area have been dumped at disposal sites in the Baltic Sea. The dredged sediments were always
looked at as a waste product, without any value. As a matter of fact it even costs money to get
rid of it, as the sediments have to be transported by barges over considerable distances to the
disposal site (>20 km).
Studies world-wide have shown that most dredged material is clean and suitable for beneficial
uses as restoring beaches, shore protection, topsoil for agricultural use, environmental
enhancement, construction material, and many other purposes. It has been realised that
dredged material can be a valuable resource and should not be easily considered for disposal.
The proposed capital dredging works, i.e. the deepening and widening of the entrance channel
and the northern part of the port, include excavation of approximately 200,000 m3 of clean sand,
more than 1,000,000 m3 of clean boulder clay and between 50,000 - 100,000 m3 of partly
contaminated silty sand.
In addition, yearly maintenance dredging volumes, consisting mainly of marine sands, are
foreseen totalling 200,000 - 300,000 m
BENEFICIAL USE OF MARINE SANDS
As discussed in Section 5.3 some coastal erosion takes place at various places north of the port
entrance. It is believed that this effect is mainly caused by the fact that yearly large quantities of
sand (> 200,000 m3) are removed from the active coastal zone by maintenance dredging of the
entrance channel. Relo.cating these dredged sands within the active coastal zone instead of
dumping these materials 20 km offshore, is expected to solve the coastal erosion problem.
Consequently, beneficial use, i.e. preventing coastal erosion, of all dredged sands is highly
recommended. This is also indicated in the LEI study (Kaunas, 1998).
It is advised to place the clean sandy sediments from the entrance channel (from both the
present project and future maintenance dredging), as closely as possible near the beach, at a
distance of a few kilometres on both sides of the outlet. If considered necessary, all or a part of
these sands can also be applied directly in beach or dune restoration projects or stockpiled for
future use.
Note: It has been decided by the KSSA to include this beneficial usage option for the marine
sands as part of the project.
BENEFICIAL USE OF BOULDER CLAY
At present, all dredged boulder clay is planned to be dumped at the offshore disposal site.
Boulder clay is rock-like material characterised by enclosures of stones, cobbles and boulders.
Boulder clay is not contaminated, an excellent construction material and should be considered
for beneficial uses as well. Options for beneficial use include:
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   7-1                    September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        H
HARRIS
Beneficial use of the boulder clay as construction material in the cores of the new
breakwaters. The core material of many dikes in the Netherlands consists of clay materials.
By replacing the quarry run or gravel by boulder clay considerable cost savings might be
achieved. However, it can be questioned whether this option would be technically feasible in
the Klaipeda situation.
Beneficial use of the boulder clay as construction material for the dikes of a confined
disposal area for contaminated sediments. Although the Port Authorities are faced with a
contaminated sediment problem, they are also blessed by having a solution at hand, i.e.
boulder clay. Boulder clay is an excellent isolating material and perfectly suited for
environmentally safe storage of contaminated sediments. With the boulder clay layer so
close to the surface and additional boulder clay at hand, an environmentally sound depot on
land can easily be constructed. Simply select a suitable location for a depot and remove the
top layer of soil till the boulder clay is reached. Construct dikes of boulder clay along the
sides and the depot is ready to be filled with contaminated sediments. The isolating
properties of the construction are such that it would even be acceptable to construct it on the
Curonian Spit (provided the location is suitable from other points of view).
* Beneficial use of the boulder clay for the construction of sills up-stream, if considered useful
for combating salt intrusion into the lagoon.
* In addition both boulder clay as such and the boulders may deserve stocking, so that both
can be used at a later stage for different applications. Boulders may even be used to create
artificial reefs, which would be beneficial to marine life and fisheries.
Note: At the time of writing this EIA only the separation and stockpiling of the boulders has been
considered. Evaluation of the other beneficial use options would require additional feasibility
studies for which no money was available.
7.2  OPTIONS FOR CONTAMINATED SEDIMENTS
The soil investigations as carried out by Geoprojektas have shown that practically all surface
sediments present in the LEI dredging area are contaminated (class 3 level of contamination
according Lithuanian classification system). According Lithuanian regulations these sediments
can only be dumped at sea in exceptional cases. Despite the contamination,'it is planned to
dispose these sediments in the Baltic Sea. This is considered to be in contrast with the
environmental protection policy of the Lithuanian Ministry of the Environment.
Under the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme, Klaipeda was
identified as one of the pollution "hot spots" in Lithuania. Measures to improve the water quality
in and around Klaipeda are therefore listed as priority actions under the Baltic Sea Programme
approved by the regional Ministers of Environment at Helsinki (April 1992) and Gdansk (March
1993).
It is noted that the present project area is not the only location in Klaipeda Port where
contaminated sediments have been identified. Heavily contaminated sediments are also found in
Malku Bay (also considered for open sea disposal), Klasco commercial port, the Klaipeda Ship
Repair Yard, the bays of the ferry link, the-paper mill enterprise, the rail ferries swinging place,
Smelte Port and the Dane River mouth.
In 1995 a study was carried out in relation to "Dredging and disposal of contaminated sediments
in Klaipeda Port" by Haskoning (Nijmegen, 1995). This study resulted in the preliminary design
of two disposal areas for contaminated sediments. However, this project did not lead to the
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    7-2                     September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Prolect                                          m
HARRIS
actual construction of a confined disposal area and hence no such disposal site for
contaminated sediments exists.
The construction of a disposal site for contaminated sediments is still part of the "Programme of
Construction and Reconstruction of Infrastructure objects of Klaipeda State Seaport up to the
year 2000". And secondly, the present Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project offers a unique
opportunity to solve the problem (see Section 7.1, beneficial use of boulder clay).
With more dredging works planned in the near future, the implementation of a confined disposal
facility (CDF) to store the contaminated sediment of the Klaipeda Port should be considered a
high priority item.
To solve the present and future contaminated sediment problems of the Port the
following action plan is recommended:
1: Quality and quantitv assessment of the contaminated sediments in the entire Port area
To determine the required capacity for a CDF additional field investigations based on core
drilling are required. The existing investigations are practically all limited to the top 5 centimetres
of the bottom sediments. Consequently it is not possible to make more or less accurate quantity
calculations. Rough estimates made in 1995 (Haskoning study) indicated the presence of
approximately 365.000 m3 of class 3 and 4 contaminated sediments in the entire Port area. In
addition an unknown volume of contaminated sediments will be newly formed in the years
ahead. In 1999, Lithuanian experts estimated that approximately 200.000 m3 of contaminated
sediments are still present in the Klaipeda port. The balance is made by the ongoing dredging
activities in Klaipeda Port and disposal of these sediments at sea.
With most of the investigations based on a limited number of contaminants, it is recommended
to include toxicity testing (bioassay investigations) as a prime method to assess the risk levels of
the contamination present. Subsequently, dredging activities should not be allowed in areas
proven to contain toxic levels of contamination, until a sound solution for handling the toxic
sediments has been arranged.
2: Investigate treatment ontions
In view of the limited volume of the contaminated sediments and the relatively high sand
contents, it is worthwhile to investigate if treatment of all or a part of the contaminated sediments
is feasible. This treatment may range from simple fraction separation to separate the (clean)
sand from the (contaminated) silt fraction, to complete destruction or removal of the
contaminant(s). Fraction separation is a relatively cheap and commonly used technique
nowadays, whereas special cleaning techniques are more costly. These costs should be
compared to the costs of constructing a small disposal facility.
In case a confined disposal site for the contaminated sediments appears to be the best solution,
the boulder clay originating from the deepening dredging works of the Port Entrance
Rehabilitation project should be considered as a construction material.
3: Dredge separately and in line with accepted methodologies
The contaminated sediments should be removed separately and according environmentally
sound and accepted dredging methodologies. These types of dredging works are not the same
as normal maintenance dredging works.
Based on studies and contaminated sediment site remediation projects carried out during the
past seven years by the author (van Oostrum, 1992 - 1998) the following key elements in
dredging contaminated sediments are identified:
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   7-3                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                           m
HARRIS
*  High accuracy dredging, resulting in complete removal of only the contaminated sediments.
This is both an environmental and an economic element. It requires high accuracy site
investigations and high accuracy dredging monitoring systems.
*  Minimising spreading of contaminants. This is an environmental element and requires
measures to prevent or reduce turbidity and/or systems to isolate the resuspended
sediments (silt screens).
*  Minimising the quantity of process water. This is an economic element and of interest in view
of storage capacity or cost of transport and/or disposal.
*  Personnelprotection. This element is a human element.
7.3  EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVES
The following alternatives have been considered for evaluation of the effects:
Alternative 1: No-action, the so-called zero alternative
In this alternative the present situation will remain unchanged. The proposed project will not be
executed, which means no dredging and construction activities will be carried out. This
alternative is taken as the "neutral" reference for comparison of the other two alternatives.
Alternative 2: The proposed project
This alternative includes the construction of two new breakwaters and dredging of approximately
2 million m3 of sand, silt and glacial till sediments. In the proposed project, all dredged sands
(from the outer entrance channel) will be beneficially used for nearshore or beach replenishment.
All silty sediments as well as all the glacial till sediments will be disposed off at the designated
offshore disposal site. In this alternative all non sand sediments will dredged as one volume,
which means that no differentiation will be made between clean and contaminated sediments
and between silty sand and glacial till.
Alternative 3: More environmentally friendly alternative
This alternative is the same as the proposed project, but with some changes in the execution of
the dredging works. In this alternative the contaminated sediments present in the LEI dredging
area, will be dredged separately from the clean sediments and subsequently stored in a confined
disposal area. Dredging of the contaminated sediments will be done in line with modern practice
of removing contaminated sediments, i.e. with high dredging accuracy, minimal turbidity and
resuspension of contaminated sediments and minimal spill.
In addition boulders from the glacial till will be collected for beneficial use elsewhere, while
options for beneficial use of the glacial till will be studied in more detail.
7.3.1   Review of evaluation results
(see Table 7-1)
EFFECTS DURING OPERATIONS
The following effects are related to the newly created situation and consequently have a more or
less lasting nature.
*    Hydraulics                       _  _
Due to the construction of the new breakwaters and the reduced opening width of the port
entrance, locally some slightly higher current velocities are to be expected. Due to deepening
and widening of the entrance channel and the northern port area, the hydraulic resistance of the
Klaipeda Strait will be permanently reduced. As a result, water discharge rates in both directions
may increase by 3 - 4%.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    7-4                       September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        H
HARRIS
The related slightly higher currents may locally lead to slightly increased bottom erosion and
reduced rates of sedimentation of suspended matter in the Klaipeda Strait. However these
effects are expected to be rather small and are neither very favourable nor very unfavourable.
* Wave climate inside Port
Computer modelling showed that the construction of the new port layout will result in
considerable reduced wave penetration. Short wave heights will be reduced by 5 - 15 %,
whereas long wave heights will be reduced by approximately 25%. These permanently reduced
wave heights will have a very beneficial effect on shipping and navigational safety.
*   Navigational conditions and safety
Due to better wave protection, additional stopping length, increased manoeuvring space and the
new alignment of the inner channel, the navigational conditions will be greatly improved by the
project. Besides, as a consequence of the better wave protection the tugs can be fully effective
and operational under all required conditions, including emergency conditions. The improved
navigational conditions and tug effectiveness also directly lead to more safe nautical conditions.
* Environmental risks
The environmental risks are mainly related to the risks of oil spills, which can be caused by
collisions between ships (bad manoeuvrability) or when a non-tug-assisted tanker or other ship
hits one of the breakwaters. The improved navigational conditions of the fairway, the improved
working conditions for tugs to provide assistance and the realignment of the inner channel away
from the oil terminal berths, greatly reduce accident risks. This can be considered a major and
permanent positive effect of the project.
- Coastline erosion / development
Although a difference of opinion exists between scientists about the littoral drift in the study area,
the most likely theory is that the nett littoral drift is negligible or at least small. Consequently, the
presence of the new breakwaters as such will not have a major effect on coastline development.
All parties agree that the removal by maintenance dredging of large quantities of sand from the
coastal zone system is one of the most important factors affecting the coastline. As in the
proposed project all sand dredged from the entrance channel will be relocated within the coastal
zone system (nearshore directly north and south of the breakwaters), the project is not expected
to have a significant effect on coastline development.
* Maintenance dredging
In spite of the extensions of the breakwaters, the deepening and widening of the access channel
will distinctly increase the annual maintenance dredging volumes and thus the annual
maintenance. dredging costs. As indicated above the removal of large quantities of sand from
the coastal system will in time lead to coastal erosion problems. If relocation of sands from the
entrance channel to the nearshore areas will also be practised with all future maintenance
dredging works in stead of offshore disposal, it is anticipated that the present coastal erosion will
be stopped or at least significantly reduced. In that case the negative effect on maintenance
dredging will be limited to increased dredging costs.
* Salt intrusion in the lagoon
In all alternatives, including the present situation, salt water will flow to the lagoon during periods
of wind set-up from the Baltic Sea. Due to the reduced hydraulic resistance in the Klaipeda Strait
the exchange of water between the lagoon and the Baltic Sea will be slightly facilitated.
Consequently the volumes of water exchange (in both directions) may increase between 0 and
4%, depending on weather and waterlevel conditions at a specific time. The affected areas in
the lagoon are relatively small when compared to the total surface area of the lagoon and the
scale of the effect on salt water intrusion is well within the natural variability.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   7-5                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                           9
HARRIS
Fisheries
The changes in available fishing areas in the two alternatives, which include dredging and the
construction of breakwaters, are negligible. Also the fact that the outflow of fresh water will be
further into the Baltic Sea is not expected to have a significant effect on fisheries. More
important is the increase in hard substrate surface area for spawning and shelter as a direct
consequence of the construction of the new breakwaters. The importance of the existing
breakwaters is this respect is demonstrated by recent studies.
*   Aquatic life
The effects on aquatic life in the Baltic Sea are mainly related to the redirection of the outflow of
fresh water from the lagoon to a position further in to the sea and the creation of new hard
substrates for benthic life. Both aspects will have a beneficial effect on aquatic life in the area.
The effects on aquatic life in the Curonian lagoon are mainly related to the slight increase of salt-
water inflow into the lagoon. As this effect will be well within natural variability no changes in
species composition are to be expected. Due to the increased inflow of salt water, both the salt
water zone and the frontal zone (between salt and fresh water), which is relatively rich in
species, may slightly widen. As a result the densities of species of marine origin may slightly
increase.
* Water quality at disposal site
Since 1987, large volumes of sand, silt and boulder clay originating from dredging works have
been placed at the selected offshore disposal site. The disposal of approximately 1.5 million m3
of uncontaminated dredged sediments from the proposed project over a period of several years
in not expected to have a significant and lasting effect on water quality in the area. However in
case also contaminated sediments are dumped at this site, the contaminated sediments will act
as a long-lasting source of pollution. Consequently water quality will be negatively affected for
many years.
EFFECTS DURING CONSTRUCTION
The following effects are related to the dredging and construction activities and consequently are
of a temporary nature. They will stop after the project activities have been completed.
* Water quality
Resuspension of sediments and the release of contaminants will negatively affect water quality
during dredging and disposal works, but also during the construction of the breakwaters (placing
of construction materials). In case the contaminated sediments are removed separately from the
clean sediments and according an adapted dredging methodology (practically zero turbidity), the
resuspension of contaminated sediments and consequently the negative effects on water quality
can be strongly reduced. At the offshore disposal site the impact of the dumping operations on
the suspended solids regime is negligible. However, disposal of contaminated sediments will
locally negatively effect water quality.
*  Aquatic life
These effects are restricted to the actual dredging and construction site, and include the removal
of benthic organisms during dredging, increased turbidity levels and reduced visibility and
possible smothering of benthic organisms and roe. Based on the characteristics of the highly
dynamic coastal zone the removal of benthic animals can be considered of little importance. The
resuspension of sediments and subsequFent -resettling will be of importance for both fish
migration and fish spawning. In case contaminated sediments are resuspended, the effects will
be more severe. At the offshore disposal site, blanketing of the seabed is the most significant
physical effect. As more than 10 million m3 of dredged sediments have already been dumped
here in the last 10 years, the effects on benthic life are limited in case clean sediments are
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    7-6                       September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          HARRIS
dumped. Disposal of contaminated sediments will have a much more profound negative effect
on aquatic life.
*  Fisheries
Dredging and especially its effect on water quality may have a significant effect on migrating fish
species and fish spawning. Mitigating measures (section 8) are foreseen to minimise these
effects. The effects on fisheries at the offshore disposal site are limited, as this area has already
been in use as a disposal site for dredged materials for riore than 10 years. However care
should be taken that disposal of dredged sediments is restricted to the designated disposal site.
* Navigation and Port operations
No doubt the dredging and construction activities will cause some hindrance to navigation and
consequently to port operations, as parts of the port area and the navigational channel will be
temporarily closed for navigation. The areas will be limited to the construction areas of the
breakwaters and the areas where boulder clay is to be removed by stationary dredging
equipment.
* Urban land traffic
The effects on urban land traffic are related to transport of construction materials for the
breakwaters to the construction site and road transport of dredged sand by trucks from a
stockpile area to neighbouring beach or dune areas. Depending on the scale of these activities
both may have a significant effect on existing traffic flows.
*   Recreation
The effects on recreation are related to the presence of dredging related equipment on the
beaches (in case of beach replenishment), increased turbidity levels in the coastal waters and
the construction of the breakwaters. These effects are rather difficult to evaluate, as they can be
considered either positive, neutral or detrimental depending on the viewpoint taken. Breakwater
and dredging construction sites often attract many spectators and can even become tourist
attraction sites. However, other people may favour the scenery of wide-open water and
undisturbed endless beaches. Care should be taken during the replenishment works that only
sand mixtures are deposited on the beaches. Mixed cargoes with clay-balls and / or mud should
only be used for nearshore replenishment, or should be redirected to the offshore disposal site.
This is to be part of the monitoring program.
SUMMARY EVALUATION (see Table 7-1)
Major positive effects are expected in relation to navigational conditions and safety, and the
related reduction of oil spill risks. The new breakwaters will also have a small positive effect on
fisheries and aquatic life in the project area.
The project is expected to result in higher future maintenance costs and will have a negative
effect on water quality in the Baltic Sea if contaminated sediments are dumped at the offshore
disposal site.
During construction several detrimental effects are to be expected. However, as all of these
effects are related to the construction and dredging activities, they are all of a temporary nature.
This means the effects will stop once the project is finished. Included in these temporary effects
are detrimental effects on water quality and aquatic life, especially if contaminated sediments are
dredged and dumped without precautions. Smalrdetrimental effects are expected in relation to
fisheries, navigation (hindrance) and urban land traffic (hindrance).
Mitigating measures to minimise the indicated negative effects will be presented in section 8 of
this report.
H7371   DraFt Final Environmental Impact Assessment    7-7                       September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                       HR
HARRIS
Table 7-1
Summary review of expected effects for the three alternatives.
+: slight increase; ++: increase; +++ considerable increase; 0: neutral;
- slight decrease or reduction; - -: decrease or reduction; - - -: considerable decrease or
reduction
equaltozero alternative-
effects during operations      [      zero          proposed   1 more environmentally
(permanent effects)               alternative       alternative    friendly alternative
Hydraulics                                           +/O01                + /0
Wave climate inside Port
. Reduction short wave height          0
. Reduction long wave height           0
Navigational conditions and safety     0
Environmental risks                    0
Coastline erosion /development         0                0                     0
Maintenance dredging                   0
Salt intrusion in the lagoon           0           u to +/- 4%           u to +/- 4%
Fisheries                              0
Aquatic life in Baltic Sea             0
Aquatic life in Lagoon                               _-101+      |     _ -10 / +
Water quality at disposal site         0                                      0
Effects during construction
(temporary effects)
Water quality
Aquatic life
Fisheries
Navigation and Port operations         0
Urban land traffic                     0
Recreation                             0                +/       |           +/-
7.3.2  Preferred alternative
Alternative 3 has been selected as the so-called Preferred Alternative and was presented
accordingly to the Port Authorities in the draft EIA (September 1998). This alternative was found
to have the same benefits as alternative 2, but the least and less severe negative impacts, while
still meeting the goal of the Client, e.g. a safer and more economic port.
7.4  ENCROACHEMENT  ON  PROPOSED  ACTION  AND  PREFERRED
ALTERNATIVE
During the execution of the EIA study for the proposed project, upon KSSA's initiative the area
to be dredged under this project was split into two tenders. One tender organised by Frederic R.
Harris (FRH) and financed by a World Bank load, covering the (re)construction of the
breakwaters and the dredging (practically) from the existing coastline seawards. The other
tender organised by the Lithuanian Energy Institute (LEI) and financed by KSSA itself, covering
the dredging from the existing coastline land inwards. The dredging area under the FRH tender
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment   7-8                      September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         AI
HARRIS
comprises only clean sediments, whereas practically all surface sediments under the LEI tender
can be classified as contaminated under the Lithuanian classification system.
In view of the fact that a CDF had not yet been implemented, the KSSA requested permission
from the Lithuanian Ministry of the Environment to be allowed to dump the contaminated
sediments present in the dredging area covered under the LEI tender at sea. Although not in line
with the concept of environmental protection, or the international attempts to improve the water
quality of the Baltic Sea - measures to improve the water qual.6y In and around Klalpeda are
listed as priority actions under the Baltic Sea Programme approved by the regional Ministers of
Environment at Helsinki (April 1992) and Gdansk (March 1993) - this permission was granted
and early 1999 dredging in the LEI area started. During the summer of 1999 practically all
contaminated and clean sediments had been dredged in the LEI dredging area and had been
dumped offshore.
Consequently, with no contaminated sediments present in the dredging area covered under the
FRH tender and all the contaminated sediments already removed from the LEI dredging area,
the so-called preferred alternative as developed in this EIA appears no longer relevant for this
project.
However, there is still a considerable volume of contaminated sediments left in various parts of
the Klaipeda port. Lithuanian experts estimate the present volume of class 3 and 4 sediments at
approximately 200.000 m3. Undoubtedly, more contaminated sediments will be formed
(deposited) in enclosed port areas in the years ahead. This clearly demonstrates that the
implementation of a CDF is still very relevant.
According the Minister of Transport and Communications, Mr. R. Didziokas, the project for
storage of contaminated sediments will form part of the Public Investment programme and the
Tina programme as a separate project. The implementation of this project is anticipated in 2001.
H7371   Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment    7-9                     September 1999






Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                     H
HARRIS
8  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
8.1  BACKGROUND
Based on the findings of the EIA it is clear that the execution of the Klaipeda Port Entrance
Rehabilitation Project as funded by the Worldbank, will influence a variety of environmental
aspects. Therefore an Environmental Management Program (EMP) has been developed, which
contains the evaluation of the most significant environmental effects, defines adequate
measures to mitigate them, and establishes a monitoring program to measure and control both
the impacts and the effectiveness of the mitigating measures.
The general objectives of the EMP are:
1. to ensure compliance with all pertinent environmental legislation
2. to ensure environmental-friendly practices in relation to dredging and disposal works
3. to give priority to preventive measures in preference to corrective measures
4. to promote two-way communication with the local communities
The works, activities and areas considered under this EMP are limited to the works as financed
by the Worldbank and include:
* All dredging, disposal and reclamation works, including deepening and widening of the
entrance channel, beach/foreshore replenishment, and stockpiling of dredged materials or
parts thereof.
. All breakwater construction and repair works, including transport and stockpiling of
construction materials.
* All survey, soil investigations, testing and monitoring works.
* All worksites and offices.
NOTE: Several aspects of the works are still unclear, e.g. the equipment and working
methods of the selected contractor, the source and transport of the breakwater
construction materials, etc. Consequently, the EMP in this section is to be considered a
DRAFT version, which is to be elaborated when the selected contractor has made
relevant details available.
In section 8.5 additional works directly related to this project are identified. These works
comprise:
* The setup of a nautical and environmental database system for storage and retrieval of
relevant data and information for better planning of future development projects, including
dredging and disposal works.
* Port wide site investigations to accurately assess the layer thickness and volumes of the
contaminated sediments, as well as its toxicity and dredgeability (need depending on scope
of ongoing studies).
* The development of a CDF for storage of contaminated sediments.
8.2  ANTICIPATED ADVERSE EFFECTS AND PROPOSED MEASURES
On the basis of the information provided in the EIA (section 1 to 7), a matrix of the
environmental aspects has been prepared, which summarizes possible relevant effects on the
natural and social environment. This matrix has been used to facilitate the definition of the
mitigating measures and the development of the monitoring program.
The mitigating measures as well as the monitoring activities are discussed in more detail in
section 8.3 and 8.4 respectively. For easy reading reference numbers are provided in the matrix.
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-1                          September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARRIS
8.3    MITIGATING MEASURES
Environmental Impact Assessment studies are designed to identify environmental problems,
which may be caused by a development project, and to determine the magnitude of the effects
on the environment. Through this process, design and operational changes can be introduced in
the detailed design phase of the project, thereby minimizing any adverse effects of the
development.
During the past five years the independent Environmental Impact Assessment Committee in the
Netherlands noted, that less and less mitigating measures were required after the EIA had been
completed. The pure fact that it is known to the project developers that an EIA will have to be
made, automatically resulted in more environmental friendly project proposals. Just like technical
and economical aspects are taken into consideration during the initial drafting of the project, so
are environmental aspects.
This is also true for the Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation project. The design of both the
entrance channel and the new breakwaters was oriented towards providing better protection
against waves and improvement of the navigational and safety conditions. This by itself strongly
reduces the risks of oil spills and is to be noted as a major benefit for the environment. With the
new layout (and other safety measures taken) the port entrance design will comply with
international safety standards.
The beneficial usage of dredged sand for beach or nearshore replenishment was also based on
environmental considerations, i.e. preventing further coastal erosion. This will be the first time
dredged sediments will be beneficially used in Lithuania.
Nevertheless, for some aspects of the project mitigating measures have been identified to
prevent or reduce possible detrimental effects. Two measures are related to the operational
phase (consequences) of the project, whereas the remaining measures are related to the
construction phase of the works.
8.3.1  MITIGATING MEASURES RELATED TO THE OPERATIONAL PHASE OF THE PROJECT
Set-up of an automated database system
Future maintenance dredging costs are expected to increase as more sedimentation in the
navigational channel is anticipated. In this respect it is important to note, that the removal of
sediments by dredging from the coastal zone with disposal offshore has been identified as one
of the possible causes of coastal erosion along the Klaipeda coastal area. To facilitate the
planning of beneficial usage of the sediments originating from maintenance dredging works (e.g.
relocating the sediments at appropriate locations within the coastal zone, beach replenishment,
etc.), a database system is to be set up. Information regarding the locations, types, quality and
quantities of the sediments to be dredged are stored in the database for future analyses. With
sediment characteristics and quantities known in advance (proven records), beneficial usage
can be better planned. This database system should be easy accessible and PC based. In
addition to storage of the sediment characteristics of maintenance projects, the database can
also be used to store other soiVsediment-related information and other environmental relevant
information. This would facilitate future planning-of development projects by the Port Authorities.
More detailed information regarding the development of an environmental and nautical database
system is presented in section 8.5.1.
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-5                             September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARRIS
Introduction of alien species
The increase in size and number of ships entering the port will result in increased risk of alien
species invasion. To mitigate this effect, which is associated with ballast water, appropriate
measures as indicated in the IMO guidelines should be taken by the Port Authorities.
8.3.2  MITIGATING MEASURES RELATED TO THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE OF THE PROJECT
During the construction ohase some temporary negative effects are foreseen. For these effects
the following mitigating measures are developed:
Protection of fish migration routes and spawning areas
The Lithuanian Ministry of the Environment has already to some degree regulated dredging
operations, which might interfere with fish migration. These regulations are known as "Order No
67" and are called "On the assessment of the effects of Klaipeda port dredging works on
fisheries" (included as appendix B to this report). These regulations comprise both strong and
very week points. Strong points are that dredging is only allowed during fish spawning migration
in case of "urgent necessity". Secondly, the dredging contractor is to provide information
regarding the planned dredging works and the measures taken to reduce the negative effects on
fish migration. In case of dredging during the fish spawning migration periods the dredging
contractor is to pay a fee for possible damage caused.
Very weak points are that the fees are so low that they will not put any restriction on dredging
from a financial point of view. Secondly, in the course of the dredging works the port must carry
out a monitoring investigation of migration intensity and the effects of dredging on migrating fish.
Assessment of the latter is believed to be practically impossible, as there are too many other
parameters besides dredging which might affect fish migration (natural variability of currents,
flow directions, discharge of waste water, spills, shipping, other port related activities, etc.).
Thirdly, the regulations do not in any way protect the spawning areas on the existing
breakwaters.
In view of the above, the dredging contractor should plan the dredging works outside the fish
spawning migration periods to the maximum extent possible. Besides, the Contractor is to take
protective measures for the breakwater spawning areas (to prevent smothering by resettling
sediments), if and when required.
As less intense fish migrations across the Klaipeda Strait take place throughout the year,
dredging and the resulting increased levels of resuspended sediments are likely to affect fish
migration in any period of the year. To mitigate these effects special attention should be paid to
predicting, monitoring and minimizing turbidity generation during the dredging operations.
Dredging clean and contaminated sediments
The lack of differentiation between dredging clean and contaminated sediments will result in
negative effects on water quality (resuspension and dispersion of contaminated sediments and
release of contaminants to the water column), aquatic life and fisheries. Besides, offshore open
water disposal of contaminated sediments will not only have a temporary and local negative
effect on water quality (during disposal), but also a more permanent and more widespread
negative effect. The contaminated sediments will be dispersed over a wide area (lithodinamically
active zone) and will act as a source of pollution.
The effects in the dredging areas can be mitigated by removing the contaminated sediments
separately from the clean sediments in a manner appropriate for the removal of contaminated
sediments (high accuracy dredging, no or minimal turbidity generation and minimal spillage).
The dredging contractor should prepare a method statement on the removal of the contaminated
sediments, in line with modern dredging practice.
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-6                             September 1999



Jaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitabon Project                                         HARRIS
HARRIS~~~~~~~~
Disposal of contaminated sediments
The effects in the disposal area can be mitigated by not allowing contaminated sediments
(above a certain level of contamination) to be dumped at sea. A confined disposal area should
be prepared for safe storage of these sediments.
In addition, periodic testing should be carried out to verify that the sediments, which are to be
dumped at the offshore disposal site, do not contain hazardous materials.
Note: In December 1998 the Lithuanian Ministry of the Environment approved the request by
KSSA to dredge the LEI dredging area and to dump the contaminated sediments at sea. Early
1999 these dredging works started and by mid 1999 these works will have been completed.
Dredging was carried like normal maintenance dredging without any precaution to the
environment. Besides, the methodology used is not likely to result in complete removal of the
contaminated sediments. With practically all the contaminated sediments removed from the
study area and no contaminated sediments found present in the remaining Worldbank dredging
area, the above indicated mitigating measures for dredging and disposal of contaminated
sediments are considered no longer relevant for the dredging works forming part of the World
Bank project. However, as there is still a considerable volume of contaminated sediments left in
various parts of the Klaipeda port, the implementation of a CDF is still very relevant. More
detailed information regarding the development of a CDF is presented in section 8.5.3.
Offshore disposal of dredged sediments
At present four open water disposal areas for dredged sediments exist in the Klaipeda coastal
zone. Two of these sites have been closed, whereas the other two are still in operation. A fifth
disposal area is being studied. All these disposal sites will positively or negatively affect
fisheries. Disposal of glacial till sediments (including rocklike hard clay and boulders) is planned
to take place at disposal area 111, which is located more than 20 kilometers from the Port
entrance. The presence of mounds of rocklike clay and boulders make these areas less suitable/    Z
attractive for certain types of fishing (bottom trawling). To minimize the damage to fisheries
caused by disposal of dredged sediments, disposal should be restricted to the designated
disposal site. However, in view of the long transport distance to this disposal site and the related
costs, it is not unthinkable that disposal of dredged sediments from barges also takes place at
shorter distances from the port entrance. These "unplanned" and uncharted dumpings at various
locations between the port entrance and the official disposal site have already caused serious
damage to the fishing industry in general (see section 6.4) and fishing gear in particular.
To ensure proper disposal of the dredged sediments, the barges should be equipped with a GPS
(or better) positioning system and a PC-based electronic monitoring system for continuous
recording of the parameters time, position and load data.
Beach or foreshore replenishment
The sandy sediments dredged at the entrance channel will be beneficially used for prevention
and remediation of coastal erosion. However, special care should be taken in case the sandy
sediments contain inclusions of clay-balls or silty sediments. In view of the recreational value of
the beach areas, these so-called "mixed cargoes" should not be used for beach or dune
replenishment. When the cargoes contain limited amounts of clay-balls or silty sediments, they
can be used for foreshore replenishment. In case too much silt is present in the cargo, the load
should not be used for replenishment purposes, but should be redirected to the offshore disposal
site.
Planning of navigation during the construction works
To minimize the interference of stationary dredging equipment and the construction of the
breakwaters with other maritime traffic two mitigating measures should be taken. Firstly,
planning of the works should be done in such a way that the interference with other maritime
traffic is already minimized. The contractor should provide a method statement in this respect.
Secondly, a program should be developed by the Port Authorities in advance of the works, to co-
ordinate and further reduce this interference. This program is to include aspects like advance
H7371   Draft Environmental impact Assessment  8-7                             September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          H
HARRIS
warning to other maritime traffic of closure of areas and presence of equipment, but also
advance warning to the contractor(s) of relevant maritime traffic, e.g. arrival or departure of oil
tankers or other large ships.
Hindrance and information to the public
No matter how well planned, the construction of the new breakwaters, the repair works for the
existing breakwaters and the dredging and replenishment works will cause hindrance to the
people who are living, working or recreating at or near these sites. To mitigate this effect, ample
attention should be paid to informing the public about the project, its timing and its progress.
Planning of road transport during the construction works
In case considerable road transport is foreseen as a consequence of the works (e.g. supply of
breakwater construction materials to the site and transport of sand to beach and/or dune areas),
more or less identical mitigating measures (see planning of navigation) should be taken with
respect to road transport.
Pollution caused by the construction activities
Pollution related to the construction activities can be caused by the equipment used, e.g.
dredgers, cranes, etc., and at the construction site(s), e.g. construction of concrete armor units,
storage areas for solid and liquid wastes, storage areas for stockpiling construction materials,
etc.
To mitigate these forms of pollution, the contractor should be requested to supply an anti-
pollution method statement. In this statement measures taken to prevent or minimize pollution,
including spillage during bunkering and waste handling, should be indicated. The statement
should also include a clean-up plan to be carried out after completion of the works.
NOTE: In the contractual arrangements relating to the environmental and social
management of the project, the above mitigating measures will be included. (Conditions
of Particular Application of the contract between the KSSA and the Contractor).
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-8                                September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HIS
8.4  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
The main objectives of the monitoring program can be described as:
*  The works should comply with laws, rules, regulations and permit requirements. This is the
legal basis for the monitoring program.
*  The learning objective for future planning. This is the common sense basis for the
monitoring program, and includes questions like:
- Are the project induced environmental changes in line with the expectations as
presented in the EIA and are additional mitigating measures required (e.g. coastline
development)
- How can we benefit from  the present project in view of the planned additional
development projects in the Klaipeda Strait?
- Which problems can we prevent in future works?
- How much money can we save in the future?
With respect to the proposed project and in line with the mitigating measures, the monitoring
activities can be split into two sections, i.e. monitoring related to the operational phase of the
new Port entrance (design consequences) and monitoring related to the construction activities of
the project (operational control).
The monitoring activities related to the operational phase are long term monitoring activities and
fall under the responsibility of the Port Authorities. The monitoring activities related to the
construction activities are mainly control monitoring activities and are the responsibility of the
Contractor and/or the Port Authorities. Management and execution of the monitoring activities
are discussed in section 8.4.3.                                                                  f
8.4.1  MONITORING RELATED TO THE OPERATIONAL PHASE OF THE PROJECT
Permanent reduction in hydraulic resistance in the Klaipeda Strait
Due to the dredging works in the sea access channel and the northern harbor area, the flow
conditions in the Klaipeda Strait will change. The expected permanent reduction of the hydraulic
resistance of the Strait will have a variety of secondary effects, like:
*  changes in flow characteristics and discharge rates
-  changes in sediment transport and sedimentation/erosion processes,
* changes in salt intrusion into the lagoon,
*  water level changes in the lagoon
Based on computer modeling, it is expected that the present project may result in a 3-4% initial
increase in discharge and may lead to approximately 2 cm lower water levels in the lagoon
during outflow periods.
Based on the LEI dredging study (LEI 1997), it is clear that considerable additional deepening
dredging works are foreseen for the area from the present project up to Alksnyne (more than 5
kilometers in the direction of the lagoon). If executed these dredging works will lead to a much
larger reduction in hydraulic resistance (up to 10%) and subsequently in much stronger
secondary effects. In order to be able to indicate the environmental effects of the planned future
works with more accuracy the effects of the present project should be assessed by monitoring
several key characteristics before and after the present project. The key characteristics should
include: waterflows in time, suspended sediment levels, salt intrusion measurements and water
level registrations.                    -
Several of these measurements are already included in ongoing monitoring programs, but
coordination may be required. Centralized storage of the resulting monitoring data in a PC-
based database system is highly recommended (see section 8.5.1).
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-9                             September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARRIS
Coastline development
A clear difference of opinion exists between scientists about the littoral drift in the study area.
Depending on the expert the execution of the project (and mainly the construction of the
breakwaters), may have a considerable or an insignificant effect on coastline development. To
make sure severe coastal erosion effects are noted in time to take preventive or mitigating
actions, the coastline both north and south of the access channel should be monitored.
The information should not only include details of the actual location of the coastline (sea-land
interface), but should also include changes in the dune/beach, as well as the nearshore
topography. For this purpose both land and nearshore topographic measurements are required
on a regular basis (extended hydrographic survey area). A part of these monitoring activities are
already included in ongoing monitoring programs.
Maintenance dredging and beneficial usage of dredged sediments
Regular monitoring is required with respect to changes in sedimentation in the navigational
channel and the northern harbor part, to study the effects of the project on maintenance
dredging. The resulting information is to include information on the characteristics of the
sediments (type of sediment, grain size distribution and level of pollution) in view of possible
beneficial usage. The data should be stored in a so-called "Nautical and Environmental database
system. Background information on the N&EDS is presented in section 8.5.1.
The proposed monitoring activities are part of the normal maintenance dredging related
activities, which may need to be adjusted to fulfill the present and future needs.
8.4.2  MONITORING RELATED TO THE CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES OF THE PROJECT
Increased levels of suspended sediments - turbidity
Resuspension and dispersion of fine sediments will take place during dredging operations and
during placement of the construction materials. In view of fish migration and nearby spawning
areas monitoring of this aspect is required.
The resulting information should indicate the scale of resuspension for the various types of
dredgers and auxiliary equipment, the various types of sediment or construction materials, as
well as the dispersion in time and place. Based on the monitoring information additional
mitigating measures may be developed if and when required.
Fish migration and spawning during the construction and dredging works is to be monitored as
well. The key parameters for fish migration should include: type of species, migration routes and
migration intensity. For fish spawning the key parameters should include: spawning locations,
timing and duration of spawning, period till hatching, spreading of fry, temperature and
suspended sediment levels.
Dredging contaminated sediments
In case contaminated sediments are to be dredged, the relevant characteristics of this type of
dredging should be monitored, e.g. accuracy of dredging, turbidity and spillage. The resulting
information should indicate differences between the design level and the dredged level in
centimeters.
Offshore disposal
To ensure that dredged sediments are only dumped at the designated offshore disposal site,
control monitoring is required. For this purpose the equipment to be used for transporting the
sediments to the offshore disposal site should be equipped with:
*  a GPS-positioning system (or better)
*  a PC and related software to record: date, time, position, and load information (based on
depth gauges of the barge/transport-ship).
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-10                            September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          S
HARRIS
Beach or foreshore replenishment
To ensure that only sand and no silt and clayballs are placed on the beach, the dredging
contractor should carefully monitor the loading process during dredging. Each load should be
judged individually in order to assess if the load is suitable for beach replenishment, for
nearshore replenishment or should go to the offshore disposal site.
Anti-pollution program
To ensure compliance with the anti-pollution program as is to be presented by the contractor,
control monitoring in the form of independent incidental audits during and after completion of the
works are required. Items to be included in the control monitoring are: fuel bunkering, waste
handling, storage facilities and construction facilities.
8.4.3  MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION OF THE MONITORING PROGRAMS
As the owner of the project, the Port Authorities are responsible for monitoring the design
consequences of the project (operational phase). These monitoring activities, which will cover a
period of at least 2 to 10 years after the works have been completed, include:
*  Reduction of hydraulic resistance and related effects
*  Changes in coastline development
* Changes in maintenance dredging volumes
As parts of these monitoring activities are already elements of ongoing monitoring programs, it is
recommended that the KSSA will work out detailed monitoring programs for these items, in close
co-operation with the involved third parties.
In view of the KSSA's direct involvement into the project, it is recommended that an independent
monitoring authority is appointed to oversee and conduct monitoring related to the construction
activities. The 'Construction Supervision Team (CST)" to be appointed for the execution of the
works, is proposed to be this independent monitoring agency for the following reasons:
* The CST has a clear task and commitment to ensure the works are undertaken according
the contract and the EMP.
* The CST has a clear view on project planning as well as on the daily activities, which
facilitates planning of the monitoring activities.
* In view of its role, the CST has direct and open communication lines with both the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Contractor. This greatly facilitates quick response actions
when required in case of non compliance with the contract or the EMP.
* The CST is directly involved in technical monitoring, like production processes and work
progress. Items that are directly related to the environmental monitoring program, like
turbidity control.
It is foreseen that for specific monitoring activities, like fish migration, fish spawning and other
field measurements, the CST will be assisted by experts from Lithuanian institutes, e.g. the
Klaipeda University, the Marine Research Center, The Fishery Research Laboratory, the
Institute of Geography and the Vilnius University.
Based on the planning and the work methods of the contractor, and in line with the items
presented in section 8.4.2 of this EMP, the CST is to work out a detailed works program for the
environmental monitoring activities. This works program is to include the monitoring topics, the
monitoring strategy, timing, frequency of measuwements, people and equipment involved, as well
as costs involved. The monitoring works program is to be completed before the start of the
execution of the works.
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-11                            September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          H
HARRIS
A series of report requirements and communication channels have been identified under this
EMP:
* Weekly progress reports from the CST to the Project Implementation Unit
* Daily and weekly reporting on specific topics by involved third parties to the CST
* Reporting between the Project Implementation Unit and the Funding Institution(s)
* Communication and coordination on a regular basis between the Project implementation
Unit and the Ministry of the Environment
* Communication and coordination on a daily basis between the CST and the Contractor(s)
The main players and reporting modes are outlined in the framework given in figure 8-1.
;,g, g,r-PS, ; . 4 Report 
Report weekly                   Comncain coriito
i S      N                 ~~~~~~~~~on regular ba sis|          W     1
_                            ~~~~~~~~~~Management Plan
Communication
Report Daily/Weekly on         Coordination
Figure 8-1: Organization schedule for monitoring activities.
NOTE: The contractor will be directly involved in the monitoring activities in allowing
access to his working sites and   equipment, but also in view  of dredging and
construction planning. In the contractual arrangements relating to the environmental and
social management of the project this will be reflected.
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-12                              September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARRIS
8.5  ADDITIONAL WORKS
In this section additional works directly related to the project are identified. Included are:
* Set-up of a database system for dredging and environmental data (8.5.1)
* A contaminated sediment remediation program (8.5.2)
* The design and implementation of a CDF for contaminated sediments (8.5.3)
8.5.1  DATABASE SYSTEM FOR NAUTICAL AN2D NKVIRONMENTAL DATA
The data and information which had to be collected for this World Bank project, included a
variety of environmental and dredging related data, e.g. bottom topography, sediment
composition, layer thickness, levels of contamination, water quality characteristics, dredged
areas, dredged volumes and characteristics, hydrographic survey data, salinity data, levels of
suspended sediments, fishery data, etc.
Although quite some information was known to exist, it was sometimes very hard or even
impossible to get the data made available to the study team. Although several earlier studies
were carried out on behalf of the Port Authorities, most of the information and data was only
available from the original source (private company, public organization or University experts).
Besides the information was fragmented, incomplete and sometimes incompatible. Data on
levels of sediment contamination were considered "Classified" and only a part of the information
could be bought from the original sources; often after several months of requesting.
This situation is a clear disadvantage to the Port Authorities, being the manager of the entire
Klaipeda port area. Not only has it caused considerable delays to the World bank project, but the
lack of a central knowledge base, or "Nautical and Environmental Database System" (N&EDS),
hampers proper planning of future development projects. With respect to the wish of Lithuania to
become part of the European Community, it is to be noted that the present situation is not in line
with the 1990 EC Directive on freedom of access to information on the environment.
It is clear that information availability can be improved by creating a N&EDS for the Port
Authorities. By storing and analyzing nautical and environmental information, future works and
activities of the Port Authorities can be better planned, e.g. maintenance dredging, beneficial
usage of dredged sediments, contaminated sediment problems, coastal erosion problems, etc.
Besides, by making data and information free and easy accessible to third parties, the data and
information can also be used for other then their original purpose, e.g. coastal zone
management, fishery research, education, in-house training, marketing, etc.
The N&EDS should be PC based and should include so-called GIS (Geographical Information
System) software. In this way data can be presented on standard maps and charts. The retrieval
of information and knowledge should be facilitated by use of simple metadata records accessible
through Internet-based gateways.
Although developed with and for the Port Authorities, the N&EDS should also be promoted and
developed in close co-operation with other possible end-users, especially University experts.
This to ensure that the results from research projects, surveys and monitoring activities will find
their way into the database system as well.
The development of the N&EDS, including the purchase of hardware and software, the design of
the database structure, implementation, testing and training, reporting and external consultancy,
is estimated at approximately 150,000 US$.
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-13                            September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARRIS
8.5.2  A CONTAMINATED SEDIMENT REMEDIATION PROGRAM
A serious problem with respect to the contaminated sediment issue and consequently with
planning of the capacity of a CDF (Confined Disposal Facility) is the fact that there are no
accurate data available regarding the volumes of contaminated sediment present, the variations
in layer thickness, the toxicity of the contaminated sediments, dredgeability and effects of
dredging tolerances on dredged volumes, treatment options to minimize the volumes to be
stored. etc.
To fill this information gap, a remediation program is highly recommended. This program should
preferably be carried out as a joint effort by the Worldbank study team and Lithuanian experts.
The total costs of the program, including limited field sampling and laboratory analyses are
estimated at approximately 200.000 US$.
Background information on presence of contaminated sediments
In 1995 (Haskoning study) the total volume of contaminated sediments in the Klaipeda port
areas was estimated at approximately 365.000 m3.
In the summer of 1998 the Geographical Institute in Vilnius (Lithuania) executed an extensive
investigation on the presence of contaminants throughout the port of Klaipeda. Sediment
samples were taken in 192 positions from the port entrance up to and including Malku Bay.
Samples were taken by using a Van Veen grab and a drop corer. The results of the
investigations have been reported separately (Geographical Institute, 1998) and have also been
used in a preliminary report to the implementation of a confined disposal facility (Association of
Lithuanian Hydrobiologists, 1999). The results of the investigations shows that most of the
contaminated areas are related to the presence of silty sediments. The assessed quantities of
contaminated sediments are summarized in Table 8-1.
Table 8-1
Contaminated sediment in Klaipeda Port
Class               % of silty  In situ quantity   Area  Average layer thickness
sediments       mi3         (kr2)             (cm)
i  Clean               4               31,000   0.6                5
II  Little polluted    36             271,000   2.5                10
iII  Polluted          58             437,000    1.1               40
IV  Highly polluted     2              13,000   0.05               25
Total             100              13,000   0.05               25
Source: Treatment site for contaminated sediments from the water territory of Klaipeda Port. (Association of
Lithuanian Hydrobiologists, 1999)
Looking at the distribution of these sediments (figure 8-2) it is observed that most of the port's
fairway is contaminated with Class II sediment, whereas Class IlIl and Class IV contaminated
sediments are found along most of the quays and in inner harbors (Winter port, Malku bay).
Implicitly this means that any expansion or rehabilitation of the existing quay structures requiring
deepening in front of the quays, requires Class IlIl and/or Class IV sediments to be dredged.
According Lithuanian guidelines these materials can not be dumped in open sea. The
aforementioned studies emphasize the findings of the EIA that for the future planning and
progress of the port a Confined Dispqsal Facility for environmentally safe storage of
contaminated sediments is urgently required.
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8.14                            September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
H-ARRIS
>>  _                                 }  ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~0 0.6  1.2 km   j
cntamia(WGS-84 c.s.)
very contaminatDam
55'40'N'AK                                                                                                 ,
Figur e     s8-2:   Dstributonnotiontmntd sdm ts i te Kaida Pr                                      ae.
H7371     Draft Environmental Impact Assessment           8-15                                          September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                       NRI
The Lithuanian experts of the Association of Hydrobiologists indicate in their report that in some
cases Class IlIl sediments are overlyinglayers of Class II contaminated sediments. Theoretically
it is assessed that the actual quantity of Class IlIl contaminated sediments includes some
201,000 m3. However, taking into account the available dredging techniques it is concluded not
possible to dredge with the required accuracy. Hence the total quantity of contaminated
sediment required to be stored or treated is estimated at 450,000 m3.
Consultants would like to indicate that present day's dredging techniques manage to maintain a
vertical accuracy of 0.10 m, when using advanced dredging equipment (with respect to
horizontal and vertical dredging control) and a trained crew. However, for the quantities indicated
Consultants assess it to be more realistic to apply a dredging tolerance of 0.20 m. Adopting the
Class Ill layer to have an average thickness of 0.20 m thick (=201,000 m3/1.1 k Mn2), it will be
required that such layer is dredged with a thickness of 0.30 m (to make sure all contaminated
sediments will be dredged). Taking into account a practical dredging tolerance of 20 cm, the
amount of sediment dredged including the layer of contaminated sediments would be around
550,000 m3. For the Class IV sediments, with an average layer thickness of 0.25 m, because of
dredging requirements the amount of dredged sediments would be around 27,500 m3. As a
result of this, the amount of in situ dredged contaminated sediments to be stored in a Confined
Disposal Facility is assessed at 577,500 m3, which leads to a minimal 600,000 m3 storage
volume in a Confined Disposal Facility.
In addition to this amount of contaminated sediment to be stored to re-mediate the present day
contaminated sediment problems of the port, a reservation has to be made for the future
maintenance dredging in the port as well. Lithuanian experts assess the amount of silty
sediments to be deposited annually at 100,000 m3. Based on the area distribution of
contaminated silty sediments, it is assessed that initially 34,000 m3 of Class III/IV material will be
deposited each year. However, when sources of pollution will be re-mediated in due course this
amount of contaminated maintenance dredging will be reduced as well, for which argument
Consultants assume the annual contaminated maintenance dredging to be some 20,000 m3 for
the coming 10 years. Hence the required size of a Confined Disposal Facility to solve the
contaminated sediment problems for the port of Klaipeda in the coming 10 years is 800,000 m3.
A storage amount of 800,000 m3 is a considerable amount and reduction of this quantity may be
looked for in the following areas:
Precisely identifying the layers of contaminated sediment. Presently some 200 samples have
been taken throughout the port to identify the contaminated sediment problem. By precisely
indicating (vertically and horizontally) where Class I to Class IV contaminated sediment can be
found, not only a detailed estimate of the quantity of contaminated sediments can be obtained,
but also a detailed dredging plan can made where to dredge which layers to what depth.
By minimizing the inclusion of clean or lightly contaminated sediments (due to over-dredging and
dredging tolerances), the indicated amount will be reduced. However, increasing the accuracy of
dredging and reducing the dredging tolerances will put a larger demand on the dredging
capabilities (equipment and staff) of a dredging contractor, resulting in increased dredging cost.
The effect of bulking of sediments (increasing volume as a consequence of handling) is not yet
taken into consideration, as filling of the CDF is expected to take place gradually during the
years. Settlement and compaction of the sediments inside the CDF will strongly reduce the
bulking effect caused by handling.  -  -
Separation of clean sand and contaminated silts can reduce the quantity of contaminated
sediments to be used. Generally, with more than 50% sands in the dredged spoil, separation of
sand and silt will lead to a reduction of the quantity to be stored. However, with less than 50%
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-16                          September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                      HARRIS
sand in the dredged spoil, the quantity to be stored does not reduce due to the adverse
dewatering characteristics of the remaining silt-water mixture.
Treatment of the sediments in the form of cleaning (removal or destruction of contaminants) may
result in a very large reduction of the quantity of sediments to be stored.
It goes without saying that reduction of the total quantity of contaminated sediments to be stored
does have its price. Which options can be used will have to be studied in more detail as part of
the remediation program, which in itself can be included in the CDF study.
Overview of finalized, ongoing and planned capital and maintenance dredging works
On additional problem in relation to proper planning of the required CDF capacity is the ongoing
removal of contaminated sediments from various parts of the port and its subsequent dumping
at the offshore disposal site. A summary of the finalized, ongoing and planned dredging works
inside the Port of Klaipeda is presented in tables 8-2, 8-3 and 8-4.
It is noted that a considerable number of capital dredging works is planned for the period
from the present to 2003. Practically all of these projects will involve dredging of
contaminated sediments. The present plans to implement a CDF after all of these works
have been completed is like putting the cart before the horse. It is therefore highly
recommended to expedite the implementation of a CDF and to postpone all dredging
works in contaminated areas till a CDF has become available.
Table 8-2
Finalized capital and maintenance dredging contracts
executed between 1 J nuary 1995 to J nuary 1999
Description of the area    .   1995        1996       .-                1998
3m3                           3in3
Bulk terminal, Berth No 68
(capital dredging)         627,926       272,364        285,829        39,550
Navigational channel,      264,633       642,545        270,840        943,215
Berths No 2-12
(capital dredging)
Malku Bay                 1,300,947       86,662                       76,430
(capital and maintenance   ,              8
dredging)
Entrance Channel
(maintenance dredgin)      253,451       490,325        367,576        97,786
International Ferry                      265,225           -
Terminal
(maintenance dredging)
Ro-Ro Terminal                                          204,428        72,700
(capital and maintenance                                   ,             ,
dredging)
Berths No 5-10, 11, 12,                                  41,449
14, 15-20, 88-94, 96-113,                                  ,
129, 134                 _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _
SC "Klaipedos Smelte",                                                 489,575
Berths No 90-104           _                                           4
H7371   Dratt Environmental Impact Assessment  8-17                           September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
HARRIS
Table 8-3
Capital and maintenance dredging contracts
finalized in 1999 and ongoing contracts
Description of the area                       m3 -               Remarks
Bulk terminal, Berth No 68                  163,000             Completed
(capital and maintenance dredging)
Bulk terminal, Berths No 68-71              50,000              In progress
(maintenance dredging)
Northern part of the Port, Berths No 4-10  1,050,000            Completed
(capital dredging),,
Malku Bay area                              200,000             Completed
(maintenance dredging)
Entrance to Malku Bay                       150,000             Completed
(maintenance dredging)
Entrance channel                            270,000             In progress
(maintenance dredging)
Table 8-4
Capital dredging projects from present to 31 December 2003
Depending on implementation of Investment program for Klaipeda Port,
as approved by Lithuanian Government
No        Project                                  -  Period of implementation
1         Port entrance rehabilitation                        1997-2002
2         Construction of specialized berths for bulk cargo   1994-2001
3         Reconstruction of Berth No 3                        1998-2000
4         Reconstruction of Berth No 4                        1998-2000
5         Reconstruction of Berth No 5,6                      1998-2001
6         Reconstruction of Berth No 80-115                   1999-2003
7         Reconstruction of Berth No 118,119                  1999-2001
8         Construction of passenger ferry terminal            2000-2002
9         Construction of cruise vessel terminal              2000-2002
10        Berths for fishing vessels                         2000-2002
11        Oil pollution combating system implementation       1998-2002
12        Search and rescue system implementation             1998-2002
13        Implementation of computerized information          2000-2002
system
14        Construction of berths in Malku Bay                 1998-2000
15        Construction of disposal site for contaminated      2001 -2003
dredged material
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-18                           September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                        HARIS
8.5.3  CONFINED DISPOSAL FACILITY FOR CONTAMINATED SEDIMENTS
INTRODUCTION
With part of the bottom sediments in Klaipeda port being too contaminated to be dumped
offshore, the dredging and disposal of these contaminated sediments forms a regularly recurring
problem. To solve this problem, this EIA describes a so-called "Preferred Alternative", which
includes the storage of contaminated sediments in a Confinmd Disposal Facility (CDF).
In view of the planned capital dredging projects under the investment program for Klaipeda Port,
it is highly recommended to expedite the implementation of a CDF and to postpone all dredging
works in contaminated areas till a CDF has become available.
In this section some concepts of a Confined Disposal Facility to store contaminated sediments
from the Klaipeda port are being discussed. Two of these concepts have been developed by
Haskoning in 1995 and two other concepts have been identified by the Consultants within the
present study. For all concepts a first order cost estimate for the implementation costs have
been provided. Recommendations for the further design and construction of such CDF, including
detailed cost estimates for implementation, are provided.
LOCATIONS
When deciding on the implementation of a CDF, an important issue to take into account is the
location of the CDF to be constructed. The HASKONING study resulted in a preliminary design and
a preliminary environmental impact study for two possible disposal sites: the Ship Cemetery and
the Dreverna site:
The Ship Cemeterv:
The Ship Cemetery is located along the Klaipeda Port fairway at approx. location 55040.8' N,
21008.1' E (Fig. 8-3). With the depth of the fairway locally being nearly 9 m, due to its location
the site is easily accessible for dredges and
barges. Further, the disposal site is located
approximately in the middle of the port and thus
in the heart of the contaminated sediment  Sea Museum CDF             KLAIPEDA CITY
problem. The resulting short transport distances    Cr S
will be  beneficial  for  the  execution  of   Curonian Spit CDF Q
contaminated sediment dredging and disposal.  Ship Cemetery \OF
The Dreverna site:
The Dreverna site is not as well defined in
location as the Ship Cemetery, but has roughly
been indicated between 5534' N and 5536.5' N
on the eastern shore of the Kursiu Lagoon (Fig.
8-3). This  results  in  considerable  sailing  . Sea
distances (order of 10 to 15 km) from the areas                            Drevema CDF
where the contaminated sediments are to be
dredged. Second disadvantage about the location
is the rather shallow depth in the Kursiu Lagoon.
CurorNan
Lagoon
Figure 8-3: Locations of CDF's (indicative)
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-19                            September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                         ARRIS
HARI
In the execution of this EIA, Consultants identified two alternatives for a CDF. One of these is
located behind the Sea Museum, taking advantage of an already present basin. The other exact
location for a CDF still has to be specified. Requirement for this last location would be that the
glacial till bottom layer should be quite near to the ground surface. According the soils
investigations carried out for the project, this layer can be found at a depth of approximately -12
m CD under the Curonian Spit. In short these two sites can be described as:
The Sea Museum site:
The Sea Museum site is located at approx. 55043.2' N, 21006.2' E (Fig. 8-3). The site is located
close to the fairway through Klaipeda port and with the depth locally being nearly 12 m, easy
accessible for dredges and barges. The sailing distances to the locations with contaminated
sediment are in the order of 2.5 to 8.5 km.
The Curonian Spit site:
The Curonian Spit site is not as well defined as the Sea Museum site, but is roughly proposed to
be located between the Ship Cemetery site and the Sea Museum site. This puts the site close to
the fairway with sufficient depth for dredges and barges. Further, also the sailing distances to
the dredge areas with contaminated sediments are short (order of 5 km).
It is emphasized that in proposing three potential locations of a CDF on the Curonian Spit, it has
not been overlooked that the Curonian Spit is a National Park. However, when it is considered
that a CDF is essentially a closed system from which contaminants are not supposed to leak, the
proposals do have some specific advantages:
1.    With large scale infrastructural and urban developments not allowed in the National
Park, it will be very unlikely that the CDF will ever be in the way of any future
developments, as it might be when located near urban Klaipeda.
2.    The long term after care of a CDF constructed in the National Park could fall under the
obligations of the organization maintaining the National Park. This organization, in itself
concerned with the care for nature, should understand the importance of the CDF and
take proper care of it.
3.    It being a NATIONAL park, a clear directive from the National Government (i.e. the
Ministry of Environment) can overrule the well known Not-In-My-Backyard attitude to the
implementation to the CDF. Clearly, the Ministry of Environment has to be convinced of
the advantages of having the CDF on the Curonian Spit
4.     Once filled, capped and completed, the CDF can be properly embedded in the natural
environment of the National Park.
Finally it is observed that at the Northern part of the Curonian Spit a lot of activities take place,
such as: presence of quays of ferry links, museums, houses, Coast Guard station. In view of
this, it is not considered a loss for the park if a well functioning disposal site is created here.
Still, the above sites are identified as being potential sites. The feasibility of these sites has not
been demonstrated yet, let alone that approvals to construct a CDF at one (or more) of these
sites have been received. Prior to the design and construction of a CDF at any of these site a
detailed feasibility study to the (final) location of the CDF will be required.
STORAGE CAPACITY
The storage capacity of the Ship Cemetery site and the Sea Museum site have been assessed
at:
*  Ship Cemetery:   85,000 m3 volume corresponding to 65,000 m3 in situ dredge sludge
*  Sea Museum:      60,000 m3 volume corresponding to 45,000 m3 in situ dredge sludge
In view of these relatively small capacities, these sites may be considered as temporary disposal
facilities. As final CDF's these sites might be attractive when the amounts of contaminated
H7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-20                            September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                            lRI
HARRIS
sediment to be stored in the depots can be reduced. Some of these techniques are indicated in
section 8.5.2, but in the following these have not been taken into account.
The storage capacity for the Dreverna site and Curonian Spit site are much larger, as both sites
are supposedly to provide a long term solution to the contaminated sediments problem of the
port of Klaipeda. The storage capacity for these sites have been assessed at:
*  Dreverna site:    500,000 m3 volume corresponding to 350,000 m3 in situ dredge sludge
* Curonian spit site: in view of the uncertainties about the quantities of contaminated
sediment still present in Klaipeda Port, a CDF with 200,000 m3, 400,000 m3 and 600,000 m3
has been identified, respectively for 150,000 m3, 300,000 m3 and 450,000 m3 of in situ
dredge spoil
It is clear that the storage capacity of the CDF will strongly affect the costs of implementation. At
present, based on the most recently available information it is assessed that in the port of
Klaipeda still some 200,000 to 450,000 m3 of contaminated sediment remain (depending on
dredgeability and dredging tolerances). To this amount an extra 20,000 m3 per year may have to
be added for extra contaminated sediment to be formed in the years ahead.
CONSTRUCTION
The construction/design concepts of the Confined Disposal Facilities at the aforementioned of
the sites are described as follows:
ShiD Cemetery site:
The disposal of spoil at the Ship Cemetery site will take place in water as well as on land. The
boundaries of the site are the existing slopes and a sheetpile dam, which is still to be
constructed. The latter functions as a retaining structure and separates the spoil from Klaipeda
Strait. The isolation of the contaminated sediments at this site is obtained partly by physical
barriers (e.g. sheetpile dam, sand-bentonite, HDPE-liner, soil capping) and partly by
geohydrological isolation (i.e. groundwater abstraction). The top and bottom drainage systems
ensure removal of excess water. This concerns consolidation water, ground water, rainfall and
water which was added during the excavation and transport process. The contaminated water is
discharged to a water treatment plant with a capacity of 30 m3/hour.
Dreverna site:
The disposal of spoil at the Dreverna site will take place on land. The contaminated sediments
are isolated using earth dams (spatial isolation from the sides) along the rectangular perimeter,
sand-bentonite from below, and a capping consisting of a drainage layer and a soil layer. Also in
this site safe removal of contaminated water is ensured using a top and bottom drainage system
and a waste water treatment plant with a capacity of 35 m3/hour.
The other two disposal facilities can be described as follows:
The Sea Museum site:
The disposal of spoil at the Sea Museum site will take place on land in an existing basin (Figure
8-4). The contaminated sediments are isolated using earth dams covered with concrete
(existing) along the rectangular perimeter. Crevices in the existing concrete cover are to be filled
with non-shrink grout or other sealing material. The same isolation is applied at the bottom of the
site. At the top a capping consisting of a drainage layer and a soil layer is to be provided. Similar
as for the other side a top and bottom drainage system is to be provided and a water treatment
plant with a capacity of about 30 m3/hour.
J
-H
H-7371   Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-21                             September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                          HARRIS
, r
Figure 8-4: Existing basin behind the Sea Museum
The Curonian Spit site:
In contrast to the above sites, the
disposal of spoil at the Curonian Spit
site will be mostly under(ground)water
(Fig. 8-5). This in order to take
advantage of the isolating capacity of
the in situ glacial till layer. This layer,
present at a depth of approximately -12
m CD, has a very high density and low
permeability. The site will be circular to
create the largest volume with the
shortest perimeter and hence space
requirements. The height of this CDF
will be small relative to it's surrounding
to ensure it will fit in it. Therefore the
(low) dams surrounding the CDF will not
be more than say 3 m high (+6 m CD),   2
where it is noticed that the dunes along _
the Baltic Sea locally reach +10 m CD.
For the required volumes, the diameter                    II
of the Curonian Spit CDF would be:
For 200,000 m3: 185 m                Figure 8-5. Lay-out and cross section of
For 400,000 m3: 240 m                Curonian Spit CDF (typical)
For 600,000 m3: 280 m
These are the diameters to the outer perimeter of the CDF, taking into account side slopes of 1
in 2 and a dam crest with of approximately 3 m.
The contaminated sediments are isolated using earth dams covered with HDPE lining or glacial
till along the circular perimeter. The bottom isolation is provided by the in situ glacial till layer.
After being filled, a capping consisting of a drainage layer and a soil layer is to be provided.
H7371   Draft Environmental impact Assessment  8-22                              September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                           HARRIS
Similar as for the other sites a top and bottom drainage system is to be provided and a water
treatment plant with a capacity of about 30 m3/hour.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Adopting that the isolating measures, after care and monitoring program for the CDF function
properly, it is assessed that the impacts of the mere CDF to the environment will be minimal,
provided that efforts are made to integrate the CDF in its natural environment.
In that respect, Consultants observe that the construction height of the Ship Cemetery and
Dreverna sites are considerable (6 to 8 m above existing ground level). Especially at the
Dreverna site integration into the (flat) natural environment would be difficult.
IMPLEMENTATION COSTS
The implementation costs calculated for the presented alternatives are included in Table 8-KZ
The costs are based on global designs, which is reflected by a relatively high contingency. It is
emphasized that the costs for dredging, transport and disposal of the contaminated sediment is
not being included in these estimates, since for the major CDF's (Dreverna site and Curonian
Spit site) the exact transport distances are unknown.
Table 8-5
Implementation costs of CDF options (USS)
Disposal site                     Ship       Dreverna    Sea Museum    Curonian Spit
Cemetery
(65,000 m3)  (350,000 m3)   (60,000 m3)    (800,000 m3)
Disposal site (excl. waste     2,168,000     3,758,000      733,000       6,435,000
water treatment plant)  ___    ______________
Investment waste water          157,000       185,000       150,000        185,000
treatment plant
Subtotal                        2,325,000    3,943,000      883,000       6,620,000
Mobilization &          10%     232,500      394,300        88,300         662,000
demobilikation
Design and supervision of  10%  232,500      394,300        88,300         662,000
construction
Unexpected              20%     500,000      860,000        200,000       1,100,000
Total                           3,255,000    5,520,000     1,236,200      9,268,000
Costs/m3 of spoil                  54           17            22            11.6
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
One of the main conclusions of this EIA is that the design and construction of a CDF is urgently
required if the port of Klaipeda is to carry out maintenance dredging and capital dredging inside
the port in accordance with national and international guidelines for the preservation of nature.
Based on the 1998 field investigations on contaminated sediments still present in the port,
Lithuanian experts estimate the amount-of level IlIl and IV contaminated sediments inside the
port to be 215,000 m3 minimum  up to 440,000 m3 maximum. The actual amount actually
depends on possibility to differentiate (vertically) during dredging operations between level 11 and
level IlIl contaminated sediments. Yearly 100,000 m3 of fresh silt will be deposited in the harbor.
How much of this 100,000 m3 of silt is contaminated is not quite clear.
)
H7371    Oratt Environmental Impact Assessment  8-23                              September 1999



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                             HARRIS
When considering the implementation of a CDF, it will be clear that a small CDF will not be
sufficient. The capacity of both the Ship Cemetery Site and Sea Museum site are insufficient to
store all the contaminated materials present.
When considering the storage of existing and anticipated contaminated sediment for another 10
years to come, the storage capacity required may be as much as 800,000 m3. Methods to
reduce the volume of contaminated sediments will have to be studied as part the design of the
CDF.
With the requirements for the implementation of a CDF (again) clearly demonstrated in this EIA
and the impact which a delay in the implementation may have on the development plans of the
Port of Klaipeda, it will be clear that a fast start up of the design and construction of a CDF is to
be promoted by all parties involved: KSSA, Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Environment.
H7371    Draft Environmental Impact Assessment  8-24                                September 1999






Kimieda Poit Ent.--RhadttonPjc
HARRIS
aALWNNROMNAMPC ASSESMET A
"al~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. .            '.iAW ON'.N.i.O'MNTAL IMPACT ASSESiMEN  AND,
RS         "~ TH   R     'ATD GOVERMENTA'L RESOLUTIONS,!
,. , . , I ~ ' a   . ~ a '   .                                 "     '    i    '    '  '  . .a '
a    w                                                                  aRW -   i
''~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ......ti''',.',.', ."' .:        
, ''' .a ., c,'' '".a                                                                            -'   ,'
l                                                   ,                                         ; 0U



Please title this page. (Page 1)                                        pagina 1 van 1
BACK
* Governmental Resolution No 233 of 17 March 1997concerning the approval of the list of
proposed activities and projects that shall be made subject to the state expertize of
environmental impact assessment
* Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of the Republic of Lithuania adopted on August
15. 1996
* Governmental Resolution No 1305 of 11 November 1996 on the approval of the order of
irtosing thc public about the proposedactiviy and implementing the proposals ofthe
piublic
* Governmental Resolution No 456 of 12 May 1997 concerning the approval of the list of
proposed activities and projects that shall be made subject to the full environmental impact
assessment
http://195.182.68.5/Povapl/teise_e.htm                                        2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                          pagma i van /
Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis
The Government of the Republic of Lithuania
Resolution No 233 of 17 March 1997
concerning the approval of the list of proposed activities and projects that shall be made subject to
the state expertize of environmental impact assessment
Acting in accordance with the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of the Republic of
Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania resolves:
To approve the list of the categories of proposed activities and projects that shall be made subject
to the state expertize of environmental impact assessment (enclosed).
The Prime Minister Gediminas Vagnorius
The Environmental Protection Minister Imantas Lazdinis
The categories of proposed activities and projects that shall be made subject to the state expertize
of environmental impact assessment
1. Thermal power stations whose power is equal or exceeds 300 megawatts
2. Nuclear power stations
3. Hydroelectric power stations, (those constructed by the existing ponds are excluded)
4. Oil extraction and processing
5. Installations for storage and transfer of oil, oil products, and chemicals
6. Industrial extraction of sapropel
7. Extraction and processing of new types of minerals
8. Ports with annual cargo capacities exceeding 10 million tonnes
http://l 95.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/Expert.html                            2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                            pagina 2 van 2
9. Highways, railroads, railway distribution stations
10. Main pipelines for the transport of gas, oil or other types of products
11. Airports
12. Construction of inland-waterways of national importance
13. Large waste water treatment plants (with daily capacities exceeding 3 000 cubic meters) of
towns
14. Watering-places where the daily volume of water abstracted exceeds 15 000 cubic metres
15. Ponds within river beds when the volume exceeds 10 000 cubic metres
16. Storage and utilization of radioactive waste
17. Storage and utilization of hazardous waste
18. Utilization of the cavities in the entrails of the earth
3
http://l 95.1l82.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/Expert.html                              2-9-98



Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of                               pagma I van 0
Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of
the Republic of Lithuania
adopted on August 15, 1996
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Definitions
Environment means a system of interdependent elements (surface, ground, air, water, soil, fauna,
flora, organic and inorganic matter, and human beings) functioning in nature as well as natural
and anthropogenic systems unifying these elements.
Environmental impact means a probable change in environment caused by a proposed activity.
Environmental impact assessment means the process of identifying and predicting the potential
impact of a proposed activity on the environment.
Special planning provisions mean provisions which set the special requirements of governmental
institutions and institutions of local government, in case there are no appropriate normative
documents, or the requirements depend on the environment of the construction site.
Program of the environmental impact assessment means a document which determines the scope
and contents of the environmental impact assessment process.
Environmental impact assessment report means a document which presents the results of the
undertaken environmental impact assessment and is prepared in accordance with the
environmental impact assessment program.
Proposed activity means the future activity (objects of construction or reconstruction) or foreseen
changes in ongoing activity (modernization, reprofile of production, implementation of new
production in existing buildings) which may affect the environment.
Decision on the physical planning documentation means a consequence of a decision on the
physical planning tasks, represented in written or graphical form and defining nature, conditions
and order for management and development of territories, land plots or their groups.
Project proposals mean the initial stage of a construction project preparation, during which the
main data concerning local conditions, proposed activity and potential impacts on environment is
provided.
State Expertise of Environmental Impact Assessment means an extensive verification of the
adequateness of the environmental impact assessment which has been conducted by the
proponent. The state expertise is organized by the specially empowered governmental body -
Ministry of Environmental Protection, together with licensed experts.
Article 2 Aim of the Law
http://H95.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/Law_EIA.html                            2-9-98



Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of                                 pagina 2 van 6
The aim of the Law on environmental impact assessment, is to provide regulations for the
evaluation of a proposed activity which may cause negative impact on the environment and also to
regulate relationships between parties involved in the process.
Article 3. Aims of the environmental impact assessment
The aim of the initial environmental impact assessment is the preliminary finding if the proposed
activity may be carried out in the chosen site.
The aim of the full environmental impact assessment is to identify all potential effects on the
environment caused by a proposed activity, to assess the social aspects of the proposed activity,
and to provide mitigation measures.
Article 4. Legal basis for the environmental impact assessment
Legal basis for the environmental impact assessment is this Law, the Law on Environmental
Protection of the Republic of Lithuania, the Law on Territorial Planning as well as other laws and
legal acts providing regulations for use of natural resources and environmental protection.
Article 5. Object of the environmental impact assessment
Object of the environmental impact assessment is the proposed activity which may cause direct or
indirect negative effect on the environment.
Article 6. Participants of the environmental impact assessment process
Participants of the environrmental impact assessment process are:
1. Relevant parties of the environmental impact assessment of a proposed activity are:
a) proponents of a proposed activity and organizations of physical planning;
b) Ministry of Environmental Protection;
c) Ministry of Health Protection;
d) Fire Protection Department of the Ministry of Domestic Affairs;
e) regional administration;
f) municipal administration;
2. Public.
CHAPTER 2
THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
Article 7. Stages of the environmental impact assessment
1. Environmental impact assessment consists of the following stages:
http://l 95.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/Law_EIA.html                             2-9-98



Law on Envirornental impact Assessment of                                  pagina 3 van 6
1) initial EIA, performed in the process of preparation of documents on territorial planning and
project proposals;
2) full EIA, performed in the process of preparation of technical projects.
2. Initial environmental impact assessment is performed investigating:
1) all documents of territorial planning, and assessing the consequences of decisions by the special
orders prepared and adopted by the Government;
2) projects proposals of a proposed activity.
3. Initial environmental impact assessment is to be performed by the proponent according to the
special provisions of the territory and construction planning and given by the relevant parties of
EIA.
4. Results of the environmental impact assessment are to be included into the documents on
territorial planning and/or project proposals which will then be presented to the relevant parties of
EIA for the decision. The proponent shall also present the before- mentioned documents to the
public and summarize its comments.
5. The Ministry of Environment Protection, together with other relevant parties of EIA shall then
make the decision, taking into account the results of initial EIA as well as conclusions and
comments of other relevant institutions.
6. Full environmental impact assessment is to be performed for the proposed activities and objects
which are included into the list prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and adopted
by the Government of the Republic of Lithuania.
7. All the participants of the EIA process are entitled to require, and the Ministry of
Environmental Protection to take a decision that the full environmental impact assessment is
performed also for a proposed activity not included into the list, if the preliminary environmental
impact assessment shows that the proposed activity will have a significant effect on the
environment and this effect can be evaluated only performing the full environmental impact
assessment.
8. The proponent then performs the full EIA, according to the program and prepares a report.
Article 8. Preparation of the environmental impact assessment program
The full environmental impact assessment program, including consideration of alternatives, is
prepared in accordance with special regulations issued and approved by the Ministry of
Environmental Protection.
The proponent submits the environmental impact assessment program to the relevant parties of
environrmental impact assessment for approval and presents the program to the public. The
proponent takes into account the public comments and then submits the program to the Ministry
of Environmental Protection for ratification.
Article 9. Preparation of the environmental impact assessment report
http://195.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/Law_EIA.html                               2-9-98



Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of                                pagina 4 van 6
Under the environmental impact assessment program the proponent must identify the potential
effect of the proposed activity on the environment, provide prevention or mitigation measures, and
prepare the report of the full environmental impact assessment.
The proponent submits the environmental impact assessment report to the relevant parties of
environmental impact assessment for approval. The relevant parties of EIA are responsible for
their conclusions in accordance with their competence.
The proponent presents the environmental impact assessment report to the public.
Article 10. Procedure of the full environmental impact assessment report review
The relevant parties of EIA, within their competence, check whether the full environmental
impact assessment report meets requirements of the adopted program, if the effects on the
environment caused by a proposed activity meet existing environmental standards, limits and
other requirements, and in the time period of one month forward the conclusions to the proponent.
The proponent submits the full environmental impact assessment report to the Ministry of
Environmental Protection, together with conclusions issued by other relevant parties of the
environmental impact assessment and with the analysis of public comments.
The Ministry of Environrnental Protection examines the EIA report and considers the conclusions
issued by other institutions that have also examined the report. The Ministry of Environmental
Protection shall then decide, in the time period of one month, if the proposed mitigation measures
are adequate to ensure the quality of environment according to the existing environmental
standards. The Ministry of Environmental Protection shall forward its decision and reasonings to
the proponent in written form.
The Ministry of Environmental Protection shall make a decision concerning the proposed activity
for which the State Expertize on EIA is mandatory only if the SE procedure has been performed.
Article 11. State expertise of the environmental impact assessment
State expertise of the environmental impact assessment is obligatory for the proposed activities
and objects included into the list which is prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection
and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Lithuania.
State expertise of the environmental impact assessment may be performed only by the licensed
EIA experts.
The license of an EIA expert is given according to the regulations adopted by the Government of
the Republic of Lithuania.
State expertise of the environmental impact assessment is organized by the Ministry of
Environmental Protection:
1) the program of the state expertise of EIA is prepared together with the relevant parties of EIA
and the experts are selected on a competition basis;
} 2) the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the experts prepare the agreement on the
performance of the state expertise of the environmental impact assessment;
http://l 95.182.68.5/PovapU/T_aktai/Ang/Law_EIA.html                           2-9-98



Law on Envirornental Impact Assessment of                                pagina 5 van 6
3) the estimate of expenditures and time-table are to be prepared and approved by the Ministry of
Environmental Protection and the proponent;
4) the costs of the state expertise of the environmental impact assessment are to be paid by the
proponent of a proposed activity;
5) the experts submit their conclusions to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and are
responsible for their truthfulness;
6) the Ministry of Environmental Protection summarizes the conclusions of experts and forward
them to the proponent, which has to take them into account;
7) fulfillment of the conclusions of the state expertise of the environmental impact assessment is
controlled by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which makes the final decision
concerning the proposed activity.
5. The state expertise of the environmental impact assessment is a component of the combined
state project expertise.
CHAPTER 3
FINAL STATEMENTS
Article 12. Publicity of the process of the environmental impact assessment
The public has a right to obtain information about the going-on environmental impact assessment
from the project proponent and to express proposals, comments and claims. The proponent of the
proposed activity must consider the public comments and motivate the decision.
The public participation in the process of the initial EIA is organized by the institutions of local
government;
The proponent must organize a public discussion on the results of the environmental impact
assessment. Costs of the discussion shall be paid by the proponent.
Regulations for public participation in the process of the environmental impact assessment are to
be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Lithuania.
Article 13. Validity of the conclusions of the environmental impact assessment
Conclusions on the proposed activity are valid for three years after they are issued.
The proposed activity cannot be carried out if the EIA decision made by the Ministry of
Environmental Protection is negative.
Article 14. Investigation of disputes
Disputes concerning the enforcement of this Law are investigated by the Courts of the Republic of
Lithuania according to the currently established order.
Disputes between the Republic of Lithuania and legal or physical bodies of the foreign countries
http://195.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/Law._EIA.html                            2-9-98



Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of                              pagina 6 van 6
are investigated according to the laws of the Republic of Lithuania, if the international
conventions, signed by the Republic of Lithuania, do not provide different regulations.
http:H/1 95.1 82.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/Law_EIA.html                         2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                          pagina I van.'
Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis
Finnish - Lithuanian EIA project
The Govemrnent of the Republic of Lithuania
Resolution No 1305 of 11 November 1996
on the approval of the order of informing the public about the proposed
activity and implementing the proposals of the public
Acting in accordance with the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of the Republic of
Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania resolves:
1. To approve the order of informing the public about the proposed activity and implementing the
proposals of the public (enclosed).
2. To set that the public is made aware of the initial enviromnental impact assessment of the
proposed activity through the public hearings on territorial planning documents, arranged in
accordance with the Governmental Resolution No 1079 of 19 September 1996 "on the approval of
regulations regarding public hearings on the territorial planning documentation projects" ("State
News," 1996, No 90 - 2099).
The Prime Minister Mindaugas Stankevieius
The Environmental Protection Minister Bronius Bradauskas
The order of informing the public about the proposed activity
and implementing the proposals of the public
General provisions
l. This order shall regulate the stages and procedures of the public discussions of the full
environmental impact assessment findings, ensure the publicity of the assessment, provide a
possibility for the community members to participate in the full environmental impact assessment
process, to achieve the goals set by the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of the Republic
of Lithuania.
2. Public discussion is a compulsory constituent part of the full environmental impact assessment
process.
The list of the categories of proposed activities and projects that shall be made subject to the full
environmental impact assessment is approved by the Government of the Republic of Lithuania.
3. This order shall be binding for all relevant parties (subjects) of the environmental impact
assessment (governmental and municipal institutions, other physical persons and legal entities).
http://1 95.182.68.5/Povapl/T aktai/Ang/info.html                               2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                             pagina 2 van 3
Stages and procedures of the public discussions of the findings
of full environmental impact assessment
Stages of the public discussions of the findings
4. The findings of full environmental impact assessment are publicly discussed in two stages:
4.1. The first stage - consideration of the full environmental impact assessment program (EIA
program), which determines the scope and contents of the environmental impact assessment
process;
4.2. The second stage - consideration of the full environmental impact assessment report, which
has been prepared in accordance with the EIA program.
The first stage
5. The public shall be informed about the public discussions of the full environmental impact
assessment:
5.1. if the proposed activity is of national importance or may have an effect on all members of the
community of Lithuania - on the Lithuanian radio and television, in the press (including local
press), via advertisements in the administrative buildings of the counties and municipal
institutions;
5.2. if the proposed activity is of local importance and may have an effect only on the members of
the local district's community - via local mass media, via advertisements in the administrative
buildings of the local district.
6. After the EIA program is prepared and ratified by the relevant parties (subjects) of the
environmental impact assessment, the proponent shall employ the announcement methods,
pursuant to paragraph 5, and provide the following information no later than 20 days before the
public discussion:
6.1. when and where the discussion will take place, when and where it is possible to get
acquainted with the EIA program. The discussion shall take place in the territory of the proposed
activity and at the time convenient for the public (not during the working hours);
6.2. when, in what way, in what time period, and to whom the proposals may be submitted.
7. In order to submit the proposals on the EIA program amendment, the governmental institutions,
public organizations, other physical persons and legal entities, which are not the relevant parties
(subjects) of the environmental impact assessment shall indicate their place of residence (the
name of the organization), name, surname, address, and date.
8. Participants of the discussion are registered by a registrar, appointed by the proponent. The
signatures of the participants shall be used in order to register. The discussion shall be chaired by
the proponent, or by the preparer of the EIA program, authorized by the proponent. The secretary
of the discussion shall be appointed by the proponent. The speeches of the participants shall be
http://195.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/info.html                                   2-9-9S



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                               pagina 3 van 3
recorded in the minutes. The minutes of the discussion shall be signed by the chairman, the
secretary, and the representative of the public, who shall be elected by the participants of the
discussion.
If in one hour after the appointed beginning of the discussion there are no participants present, the
registrar may state that the discussion did not take place. This statement shall be recorded in the
minutes and signed by the proponent and the registrar.
9. During the discussion, the proponent or the preparer of the EIA program, authorized by the
proponent, defines the nature of the proposed activity, describes the EIA program, answers the
questions of the participants, and evaluates the proposals of the public. The proposals are to be
submitted in written form before the beginning of the discussion. If the author of the proposal is
absent, or if there are new proposals arisen during the discussion, the proponent shall inform the
author about his decision in written form, providing the reasons on which the decision is based.
The proponent shall inform the author no later than in 10 days after the public discussion.
During the discussion, the information regarding the second stage of the public discussion shall be
presented. The second stage of the discussion shall take place after the EIA report is prepared
according to the EIA program.
10. After the discussion, the proponent together with the preparer of the EIA program shall
analyze and evaluate the proposals of the public.
The EIA program shall be submitted to the Environmental Protection Ministry for ratification.
The conclusions of the public proposals analysis, the minutes of the discussion, and the list of
participants shall be submitted to the Environmental Protection Ministry as well. If there are no
public proposals or if there were no participants present, the proponent shall submit the minutes
which inform that the discussion did not take place.
The second stage
11. After the EIA report is prepared in accordance with the EIA program, the proponent or the
preparer of the EIA program, authorized by the proponent, shall make the public acquainted with
the EIA report. The same methods and procedures as during the first stage shall be employed.
12. The EIA report, the public proposals analysis, and the conclusions of the relevant parties
(subjects) of the environmental impact assessment shall be submitted to the Environmental
Protection Ministry for ratification.
13. Governmental institutions, public organizations, and other physical persons or legal entities
may appeal the public discussion procedures and a justifiable refusal to implement the public
proposals to the Environmental Protection Ministry at the latest within 15 days after the public
discussion. Governmental institutions, public organizations, and other physical persons or legal
entities have also the right to perform public environmental impact assessment.
14. Prior to the final decision regarding the proposed activity, the Environmental Protection
Ministry shall invite the public representatives listed in paragraph 13 to participate in the
consideration of public proposals and conclusions of experts.
http://1 95.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/info.html                                    2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mfmdaugas Raulinaitis                          pagina 1 van 6
Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis
The Government of the Republic of Lithuania
Resolution No 456 of 12 May 1997
concerning the approval of the list of proposed activities and projects that shall be made subject to
the full environmental impact assessment
Acting in accordance with the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of the Republic of
Lithuania ("State News," 1996, No 82 - 1965) the Governrment of the Republic of Lithuania
resolves:
1. To approve the list of the categories of proposed activities and projects that shall be made
subject to the full environmental impact assessment (enclosed).
2. To set that:
2.1. The proposed activities or projects listed in the aforementioned list shall be made subject to
the full environmental impact assessment if at least one of the following criteria are met:
2.1.1. Production capacities or other indices match the values defined in the list;
2.1.2. The volume of water consumed exceeds 250 cubic metres per 24 hours;
2.1.3. The volume of waste or sewage water recharged exceeds 100 cubic metres per 24 hours;
2.1.4. The annual volume of emissions into the atmosphere exceeds 50 tonnes;
2.1.5. During the production process (except combustion and welding processes) emissions
(regardless of the volume) belonging to the I and II risk categories are emitted into the
atmosphere;
2.1.6. The annual volume of hazardous waste produced exceeds 5 tonnes;
2.2. The "Environmental Protection" section of a construction object study for the categories of
proposed activities and projects that are not subject to full EIA pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2
above, yet do have negative effects on the environment or use natural resources, as well as for the
constructions planned to be erected on the territories of national parks and nature reserves, shall
be prepared according to the Republican Construction Standards and coordinated according to the
established order.
The Prime Minister Gedimninas Vagnorius
The Environmental Protection Minister Imantas Lazdinis
http://l 95.182.68.5/Povapl/T-aktai/Angllist.html                               2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                           pagina 2 van 6
The categories of proposed activities and projects that shall be made subject to the full
environmental impact assessment
ENERGY INDUSTRY
1. Thermal power stations
2. Nuclear power stations
3. Hydroelectric power stations, whose power exceeds 10 megawatts
4. Installations for geothermal energy production, whose power exceeds 5 megawatts
5. Boiler-houses
INDUSTRY
Extractive industry
1. Oil extraction and processing (in all cases)
2. Peat extraction and processing where the surface of the site exceeds 25 hectares
3. Sapropel extraction and processing where the surface of the lake exceeds 0,5 hectare
4. Extraction and processing of minerals where the deposit resources exceed 300 thousand
cubic metres
5. Exploration works, extraction and processing of ore (in all cases)
6. Extraction of mineral water in local mineral water basins
7. Extraction and processing of other new types of minerals (in all cases)
Production and processing of metals
1. Mechanical treatment of metals
2. Galvanic treatment and enameling of metals
3. Processing of metal scrap and refuse
4. Smelting of metals as well as treatment of metals using thermic or other type of process
Food industry
http://l95.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/list.html                                  2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                          pagina 3 van 6
1. Meat processing
2. Fowl processing
3. Fish processing
4. Fruit and vegetable processing
5. Manufacture of vegetable and animal oils and fats
6. Manufacture of margarine and similar types of edible fats
7. Milk processing
8. Manufacture of starch and starch products
9. Grain processing
10. Manufacture of yeast
11. Manufacture of bread and confectionery
12. Manufacture of cacao, chocolate, sugar, and sweets
13. Manufacture of spices
14. Manufacture of homogenized and dietary food products
15. Manufacture of non-alcoholic drinks
16. Manufacture of spirits and alcoholic beverages
17. Manufacture of vinegar
Textile industry
1. Cotton fiber preparation and spinning
2. Wool fiber preparation and spinning
3. Flax fiber preparation and spinning
4. Weaving
5. Manufacture of non-woven materials
6. Manufacture of carpets and carpet-strips
Chemical industry
1. Production of chemicals
http://l 95.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/list.html                               29-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                                 pagina 4 van 6
2. Production of automobile cosmetics and technical care preparations
3. Production of soap and disinfectant cleaning products
4. Production of polishing preparations
5. Production of perfumes and toiletry preparations
6. Production of glue and gelatine
7. Production of artificial fiber
8. Production of rubber articles
9. Production of volatile oils
10. Production of paint, varnishes, and polishing preparations
11. Production of polymeric materials and articles
12. Production of pharmnaceutical products
13. Processing of plastics and production of plastic articles
14. Production of artificial leather
15. Production of mineral fertilizers
Industr of construction materials
1. Production of glass and glass fiber
2. Production of construction materials and structures
3. Production of cement
Wood processing industry
1. Production of cellulose, paper, and card-board
2. Production of wood fiber boards, wood shaving boards, and plywood
3. Production of furniture
4. Impregnation of wood with antiseptic agents
Electronics industry
Radio and television communications enterprises when total power of all transmitters equals or
exceeds 20 kilowatts
http://195.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/list.html                                       2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                            pagina 5 van 6
Preparation of fur and leather
Production of mirrors
Production of tobacco products
Production of microbiological fermentical prepaations
Production of galvanic cells
Production of machines and eauipment
Production of ammunition and explosives
Industrial processing f stone
AGRICULTURE
1. Agricultural service enterprises
2. Livestock farmns with more than 200 places
3. Menageries with more than 1 000 places
4. Poultry farms with more than 10 000 places
5. Fish farms where the surface of the ponds exceeds 100 hectares
6. Land reclamation when the surface of the land exceeds 50 hectares
TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
1. Ports and harbours (in all cases)
2. Main roads, highways, and railroads (in all cases)
3. Railway stations, railway distribution stations, depots, wash-houses for railway cars, depot
storage facilities for fuel, and gas stations
4. Airports, enterprises of aircraft manufacture and maintenance
5. Enterprises of ship manufacture and maintenance
6. Enterprises of industrial manufacture and maintenance of other types of vehicles
7. Main pipelines for the transport of gas, oil or other types of products (in all cases)
8. Construction of inland-waterways of national importance (in all cases)
9. Racing and test tracks for automobiles/motorcycles (in all cases)
http://l 95.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/list.html                                2-9-98



Unofficial translation by Mindaugas Raulinaitis                           pagina 6 van 6
OTHER CATEGORIES OF PLANNED ACTIVITIES AND PROJECTS
Water treatment plants
1. Sewage treatment plants for cities and settlements with a capacity exceeding 10 000 cubic
meters per 24 hours
2. Surface run-off water treatment plants when surface of the territory exceeds 50 hectares
Sewage treatment plants for industrial enterprises when there is no treatment technology
certificate (in all cases)
Watering-places
1. Where the daily volume of water abstracted exceeds 1 000 cubic metres (when the
productive water bed lies less than 50 metres below the surface)
2. Where the daily volume of water abstracted exceeds 5 000 cubic metres (when the
productive water bed lies deeper than 50 metres below the surface)
Ponds when the surface of the pond exceeds 50 hectares
Cleaning and manipulation of lakes when the surface of the lake exceeds 0,5 hectare
Deepening  f the port water areas (in all cases)
Installations for storage and transfer of oil and oil products with an annual capacity exceeding 1
million tonnes
Production of casein
Printin -houses
Storage and utilization of radioactive waste (in all cases)
Storage and utilization of hazardous waste (in all cases)
Training grounds of the Lithuanian Army (in all cases)
Utilization of the cavities in the entrails of the earth (in all cases)
http://l95.182.68.5/Povapl/T_aktai/Ang/list.html                                 2-9-98






KJaipoda Poet Entrance Rehabilitaton ProedARI
APPENDIX B
: LITHUANIAN DREDGING RELATED RULES
:.;   . , . .  '  - .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.        .      . U
.    A ;,.--;,;', ,- 



The Republic of Lithuania                         Order No 67
Ministrv of Environment                           1997 04 17
Protection                                        Vilnius
On the assessment of the effects of Klaipeda port dredging works
on fishery
Generalizing the recommendations of the Institute of Ecology and Lithuanian
Hydrobiological Society presented in the "Assessment of the effects Malk0 bay dredging works
on fishery", "Methodical quige book for assessment of the effects of Klaipeda port dredging
works on fish migration and results of ecological monitoring of Klaipeda port, seeking to
strengthen the protection of migrating fish in the Klaipeda Strait in spawning periods and
accumulate extra means for restoration and protection of these fish supplies and following the
nature Protection Ministry Regulations (article 7.4),
I hereby order:
1. To ensure that in the period of fish spawning migration (from April 1 to May 31 and
from August 16 to October 31) the port area shall be dredged (cleaned) only in case
of urgent necessity and provided that the following conditions are followed:
1.1. A plan of dredging works must be prepared and coordinated with the
Department of Fish Supplies before the beginning of the works. The plan
must contain information about concrete dredging sites, terms and range and
provide measures for reducing the negative effects on fish migration.
1.2. In the course of dredging works the port, by its own expenses must carry out
a monitoring investigation of migration intensity and dredging works effects
on migrating fish. If there is a necessity certain corrections of the dredging
works must be made in 24 hours. The investigations must be carried out by
specialists who are not subordinate to the port.              1
2. Depending on the dredged part of the port the following reimbursement prices for
damage inflicted to fish migration must be determined:
2.1. When dredging works are carried out in the western nearshore of the
Klaipeda Strait, navigation channel, monoeuvring area of the International



ferrv or western branch of Kiaules nugara isle - 0.06 Lt for 1 m3 of dredged
out sediment.
2.2. When dredging works are carried out in the eastern nearshore of the
Klaipeda Strait (head quarters of "KLASCO", "Smelte'. "Laivite", "Klaipeda
ship repair yards", "Ship building yards Baltija", "Cardboard factory",
"Closed stock company Bega", internal roadstead, Smiltyne ferry terminal) -
0.031 Lt/m3 of sediment.
2.3. When the dredging works are carried out in the Malko bay - 0.02 Lt/m3 of
sediment.
3. To ensure that in the period of intensive fish migration (from April 15 till May 15 and
from September 5 till October 15) the damage reimbursement prices will be
multiplied by coefficient 2.
4. It must be determined that violation of conditions provided in the plan (when the
indicated conditions are not kept to or when recommendations for corrections -
supported by investigation results - are not taken into account) make the dredging
works illegal and  the  executives answer   according  to  the  law. When
recommendations, sustained by results of investigation are at variance with the plan it
is necessary to keep to recommendations.
5. Using the actual investigation data the Department of Fish Supplies must specify the
dates of the beginning and end of spring and autumn migrations and duration of
intensive migration if there is such a need.
6. The reimbursement means (for damage inflicted to the process of fish migration)
must be used for protection and regeneration of fish supplies.
7. The Order must be distributed to the Department of Fish Supplies, Klaipeda Regional
department, Klaipeda State Port administration.
8. The keywords in the computer database of the Ministry of Environment Protection
are "wildlife" and "management"
Minister
I. Lazdinis



The Republic of Lithuania
Ministry of Environment Protection
Instructions for Klaipeda Port area and Sea channel dredging
(cleaning and deepening) and sediment dumping in the Sea works
1994
The Instructions were approved by the order No54 of November 16, 1994 issued by the
Department of Environment Protection
The Instructions were worked out by a team headed by prof. B.Gailiu6is to the order of
Klaipeda State Port administration.
Provisional instructions for Klaipeda Port area and Sea channel dredging and
sediment dumping in the Sea works
1. General part.
1.1. The Instructions were worked out following the convention for marine
environment in the Baltic Sea region, Low of environment protection of the
Republic of Lithuania, Regulations of the Lithuanian Ministry of
Environment Protection, HELKOM recommendations and foreign experience.
The Instructions provide the procedures and conditions for submission of
applications and issuing permissions for bottom dredging and sediment
dumping in the Sea works.



1.2. The Instructions reflect the results of scientific investigations of effects
produced by bottom dredging and sediment dumping, on the environment.
The effects are the following:
* intensification of water circulation between  the Baltic Sea and
Curonian lagoon as a result of increased hydraulic conductivity of the
Strait.
* secondarv water pollution ith toxic. c.nntaminations in the process of
sediment dredging,
* bottom deformations resulting structural changes of the speed of water
flows,
* degradation of hydrocaenoses reducing the food basis for fish, water
self-cleaning capacity and ecosystems stability,
* changes of fish migration and spawning conditions during dredging
works,
* marine water pollution by soil dumping,
* a necessity to control the mentioned works seeking to estimate their
effects on the environment and eliminate the harmful consequences.
1.3. Explanation of terms:
* "Sea" means the territorial and economic zone of the Republic of
Lithuania in the Baltic Sea and Curonian lagoon.
* "territorial waters" and "economic zone" - part of the Baltic Sea
delimited by agreements between the Republic of Lithuania and other
countries and determined by the Lithuanian Law,
* "ships" mean any type of vessels including the self-propelled and
tugged ones, ships on air cushion and with hydrofoils, submarines,
stationary and floating platforms,
* "bottom dredging for deepening purposes" (bottom deepening) is an
increase of the project depth or width of port area.
* "bottom dredging for cleaning purposes" (bottom cleaning) is removal
of bottom sediments seeking to restore the project depth or width of
port area.
* "dumping" means sediment disposal from a ship,
* "client" means Klaipeda Port administration or port enterprise
exploiting part of the port,



* "contractor" means: a) enterprise which implements the dredging
work by contract, b) vessel carrying the dredged out sediment,
* "sediment" - surface sediments or rock of the Sea bottom,
* "aleurite" - 0.01 - 0.00 1 mm sediment particles,
1.4. The Instructions are applied for licenced (permitted) dredging and dumping
works. Dumping in the Sea of any other materials and wastes, as well as ships
or aircrarfs is prorhibited.
2. Conditions of dredging works:
2.1. The character of dredging works depends on their purpose. There are two
kinds of dredging works - bottom dredging for cleaning and bottom dredging
for deepening purposes.
2.2. In periods of intensive valuable fish migration (April 1 - May 31, August 16
- October 31) bottom dredging works are limited. Limiting conditions can be
found in an issued permission.
2.3. A project for bottom dredging works must contain a chapter on nature
protection providing measures for nature protection.
2.4. According to the intensity of Klaipeda Strait bottom processes the whole
aquatory is divided into three sectors with indicated exploitation depths of
fair ways (Supplement No l.of the Instruction). The scheme also contains
recommended exploitation depths for each port area. While carrying out
dredging works these depths should be taken into consideration (see Table 1.).
2.5. Toxicants characteristic of the region are most widely spread in the bottom
sediments of port area and Sea channel : chromium, nickel, copper, lead,
mercury, cadmium, zinc, oil products (Supplements 2 and 3). According to
the concentration of these chemicals in the bottom sediments the latter are
grouped in four pollution classes (Table 2). The class of sediment pollution is
determined providing that MCL of no toxicant is exceeded.
2.6. The sediments of class 1 and 2 (clean and little polluted) may be dumped in
the Sea or used for leveling of the territory, road building, ect.
2.7. The sediments of class 3 and 4 may be dumped in the Sea only in
exceptional cases when the content of (Table 2) mobile forms of heavy
metals,  pesticides,  phenols,  polychorbiphenils,  benz(a)pyrene  and
radionuclides is determined, hypothesis of effects on the environment worked
)



out and other ways of sediment detoxication and use were considered and
rejected.
2.8. Polluted and highly polluted sediments (class 3 and 4) on which a
permission for dumping in the Sea was not given, are transported to landfill or
other utilization site coordinated with the Ministry of Environment Protection
2.9. The level of port area and Sea channel bottom sediments pollution is
determined:
* in loams and sands - no less than once in the three years,
* in aleurites and sands with aleurites - every time before applying for
permission to implement dredging works.
2.10. Permissions for dredging works are issued on the ground of investigation
results of the following number of sediment samples (depending on the
planned quantity of sediments):
3 - when the planned quantity of dredged sediments is 25 000 m3.
4-6 - from 25 000 to 100 000 m3
7 - 15 - from lOO 000 to 500 000 m3
16-30-from500000to2000000m3
2.11. Monitoring of dredging works in the port area represents repeated
investigations of the parameters of marine environment and control of
mediate and immediate effects on the environment. The monitoring is
implemented by the Klaipeda Port Administration within the framework of
the programme cordinated with the Ministry of Environment protection.
Sediment and water samples should be analysed by authorized laboratories.
3. Procedures for getting a permission for dredging works.
3.1 Free formn applications for bottom dredging and sediment dumping works are
to be submitted to the Klaipeda Port Administration. The client must prepare
a permission project following the requirements (Supplement 4). Head of the
client enterprise is responsible for reliability of data in the permission project.
The Klaipeda State Port submits the material for getting a permission to the
Ministry of the Environment Protection.
3.2 The permission for port area dredging is issued after a submission to the
Ministry of Environment Protection of the following: 1) project task,



coordinated with involved organizations, of a new  building  or new
(reconstructed) port area construction, 2) hypothesis of effects of projected
dredging works, 3) project of nature protection measures to reduce the
harnfull effects. The Ministry of Environment Protection carries out an
ecological expertise of construction or reconstruction works on the ground of
submitted and any other information. A positive conclusion on project
doincumenation is at the samne timne a permission to carry out dredging works.
3.3 The application for permission to carry out bottom dredging and sediment
dumping works must be submited by the Klaipeda Port Administration to the
Klaipeda Regional Department of MEP in a special form (Supplement 4) and
45 days before the beginning of works. The permission must be issued (or a
written refusal to issue) in 30 days from the data of submission of material.
Three copies of permission must be distributed (to client, Port administration,
and Klaipeda Regional Department of MEP).
3.4 Under special conditions of exploitation, when the depth and width of the
Port area suddenly change as a result of storms, tides, landslips and other
elemental forces, the Klaipeda Regional department of MEP may issue a
permission for dredging and dumping works in the order of emergency. The
emergency permission is issued in three days after a submission of free form
application and bathymetric plan with a description of projected works.
3.5 The client submits an account of implemented works to the Klaipeda Port
Administration and Klaipeda Regional Department of MEP every quarter of
the year and after a completion of the work. After the completion of the work
the client submits a bathymetric plan of area in which the dredging works
were carried out. The client is allowed to begin the exploitation of the dredged
area only after a permission from the Klaipeda Port Administration.
3.6 The Klaipeda Regional Department of MEP does the registration of
sediments to be dumped in the Sea (quantity, kind, locality, time and
methods) on the ground of client's accounts.
3.7 The permission for bottom dredging and sediment dumping works is issued
in the client's name. In case of violation of conditions provided in the
permission or unexpected environmental pollution for executive's fault the
perpetrator answers according to the Law.



Table 1.
Long-term intensity and depth of bottom deformations in different parts of Klaipeda Port area
Port area                    Project    Average   Maximu
depth, m    amplitude     m
of depth   amplitude
fluctuatio   of depth
ns, m    fluctuatio
______ __  ___ _____ ns,  m
Bar entrance channel              13-13.5     0.4-0.8     1.5-1.7
Klaipeda Strait fair way            9.5-10     0.2-0.3     0.5-1.0
1      Northem accumulative area of the port
Internal entrance channel           12-12.5     0.4-0.5     1.0-1.2
Area of oil pier                  13       0.4-0.5     0.7-0.9
Deep water area                 11-11.5    0.25-0.5    0.7-1.0
Trade port area                 11-11.5    0.3-0.4     0.5-0.6
2.          Internal transitional port area
Area of the 7-th ship repairing enterprise.  11-12     0.2-0.3       0.5
Area of experimental ship repairing         7        0.1-0.2     0.3-0.4
enterprise
Area of Baltija ship building enterprise     8        0.3-0.4       0.5
Area of cardboard factory pier          6-7       0.2-0.4       0.6
| 3.   Southern accumulative-abrasional port area
Area or the fishing port piers          8-9       0.5-0.7      1.0
Manoeuvring depression of the international    9.5-10    0.4-0.6       1.0
ferry
Area of the eastern branch            7-8
___|_           Area of the western branch            9-9.5         -
Table 2.
Sediment pollution classes according to MCL of toxicants
Concentration of ollutants, mlg   _
Class       Name          Cr    Ni    Zn    Cu    Pb    Hg   Cd  Hydroc
_______________               _____        ~ ~~~~I abons
1.        Clean         75     30    100    20       20    0.1    1      20
2.     Little polluted    100    50    200    100    100    0.5    3     100
3.       Polluted       200    100   400   200   200    1.0    5    1500
4.    Highly polluted   >200  > 1 00  >400  >200  >200  > >1.0  >5   >1500



Supplement 1. Exploitation depths of the northern part of Klaipeda port area. The
markings are based on the data of Table 1.
Supplement I (continued). Exploitation depths of the southern part of Klaipeda port
area. The markings are based on the data of Table 1.
Supplement 2. Level of Klaineda Strait bottom sediments pollution: 1- clean, 2 - little
polluted, 3 - polluted, 4 - highly polluted.
Supplement 3. Bottom sediments composition in the Klaipeda Strait: 1 - aleurites and
sand with aleurites, 2 - loams and sands.
Supplement 4
Ministry of Environment Protection of the Republic of Lithuania
Klaipeda Regional Department
Permission
to carry out bottom dredging and sediment dumping in the Sea works...............
Supplement to permission No ... to carry out bottom dredging and sediment dumping
in the Sea works:
1. General information
Client
Executive
Geographical situation of the dredged area
Volume of works, depth, equipment, their productivity
Purpose of dredging works
Terms of dredging works
Granulometric composition of dredged sediments
Use or disposal of dredged sediment
Ship course and geographical coordinates of the dumping site
description of dumping conditions
2. Dredged sediment pollution
. A hypothesis of sediment dumping effects on the environment.



KJaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project
_ERRrS
APPENDIX C
LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS
H71371~  Orft Ffnal Ernvironenvftal ImPact Assessment                                                   Spebr19
M                                                                                                  Setebe 1999
. -    , 






KLAIPEDA PORT ENTRANCE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS
The following people, organisations and institutes lave contributed in the preparation of this
Environmental Impact Assessment:
Section 2    LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
Lithuanian environmental regulations:    Dr. Kestutis Joksas, Lithuanian Institute of
Geography
Section 3    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
General description of the proposed  Vytautas Kaunas M.Sc.Eng., Klaipeda State
project and future planning:         Seaport Authority
Section 4    BASELINE DATA ON PRESENT SITUATION
Baltic Sea Coastal area:             Ms. S. A. Urbis, Coastal Research and
Planning  Institute  (CORPI),  Klaipeda
University.
Klaipeda harbour area:               Prof.  V.  Paulauskas,  Dept.  Shipping,
Klaipeda University
Curonian lagoon:                     Ms. S. D. Daunys; Ms. S. Z. Gasoznaite,
CORPI, Klaipeda University.
Tides and currents:                  Dr. J. Dubra, Marine Research  Centre
(MRC), Ministry of Environrnent;
Prof. B. Tilick s, CORPI, Klaipeda University.
Wind and waves:                      Dr. J. Dubra, MRC, Ministry of Environment.
Coastal sediment transport:          Prof. R. Zaromskis, Vilnius University,
Ir W. Eysink, Delft Hydraulics.
Water and sediment transport:        Prof. E. Trimonis, Dr. S. Gulbinskas;
Institute of Geography;
Dr. J. Dubra, MRC, Ministry of Environment.
Geological history:                  Dr. S. Gulbinskas, Institute of Geography.
Bed topography:                      Dr. S. Gulbinskas, Institute of Geography;
G. Matulis, Port authority.
Sediment characteristics:            Prof. E. Trimonis, Dr. S. Gulbinskas,
Institute of Geography.
Basic water related characteristics  Dr. A. Stankevicius, MRC, Ministry of
Baltic Sea, harbour area, lagoon:    Environment;
prof. B. Tilickis, CORPI, Klaipeda University.



Salinity:                            Dr. A. Stankevicius, MRC, Ministry  of
Environment;
prof. B. Tiliekis, CORPI, Klaipeda University.
Pollution:                           Dr. A. Stankevicius, MRC, Ministry  of
Environment.
Baltic Sea marine ecology:           Dr. S. Olenin, Ms.S. V. Labanauskas,
CORPI, Klaipeda University.
Kursip IVIarios lagoon ecology:      Ms.S. Z. Gasuznaite, m.&  n  Daunys; .
CORPI, Klapeda University.
Kursip Nerijos National Park ecology:  Dr.  A.  Olsauskas,  Botanical  garden,
Klaipeda university.
Navigation and vessel traffic control:  Prof.  V.  Paulauskas,  Dept.  Shipping,
Klaipeda University.
Maintenance dredging and disposal:    Dr. S. Gulbinskas, Institute of Geography, G.
Matulis, Port authority.
Environmenta) protection and CZM:    Ms.S. A. Kontautas, CORPI,  Klaipeda
University,
Ms.S.  D.  Zelvyte,  Klaipeda  regional
department, Ministry of Environment.
Spill contingency (oil pollution) planning   Dr. J. Dubra, MRC, Ministry of Environment.
and response equipment incl.
Fire fighting equipment:             Ms.S. A. Kontautas, CORPI, Klapeda
Fisheries in the coastal area,       University.
harbour area and lagoon:
Recreation and water sports:         Ms.S. A. Urbis, Coastal Research  and
Planning  Institute  (CORPI),  Klaipeda
University.



KJaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                               HARRIS
APPENDIX D
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS OF PUBLIC HEARINGS AND COMMUNITY MEETINGS
H7371     Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment                                                September 1999



1999 rucseic 6, PR9MADIENS
*KLAIPEDOS- akiratyie  - Klaipeda, Palanga,  Neringa  ir Klaipedos. KreLingos.  Silutes, Skodo  rajonai
APSKRITIES IR MIESTO  LAIKRASTIS                                                               ISSN1392SSS
lseina lietuviq ir rusu kalbomis iesis kartus per savaitq                  Nr. 207 (15.551)  Kaina 1 Lt 20 ct
Sio numerio tirajas   34.518 eg2. Lietuviuj k. -  2052 egz., rusq k. - 12.466 egz.       www.klaipeda.daily.lt
Klaipedos vaistybinio juCi- uosto direkcijos uzsa-
kymu Olandijos kompanija "Frederic R. Harris" ruosia
Klaipedos uosto 'plaukos tobulinimo detaluji projekta,
pagal kuri bus atlikti uosto 'plaukos gilinimo darbai,
esamu bangolau2i4 remontas bei ju4 pratesimas. Si
kompanija kartu su kita Olandijos kompanija "Environ-
mental & Dredging Consultancy" paruos Poveikio aplin-
kai issamaus vertinimo ataskaita.
Kvieciame visuomenines organizacijas ir asmenis,
suinteresuotus siuo projektu, dalyvauti viegame aptarime
gamtos apsaugos klausimais. Aptarimas vyks rugsejo 15 d.
14 val. Lietuvos juru laivininkystes aktu saleje (JJanonio
I g. 24, Klaipeda).
Siekiant geriau supazindinti visuomenines organi-
zacijas ir visuomene su projektu, "Frederic R. Harris"
paruos  projekto santrauka, su kuria galima susipa2inti
KVJUD Projekto jgyvendinimo grupeje (Smilties Pylimo
g. 7, 8 kab., kreiptis J grupes vadova Vytau ta Kauna
tel 39 9424,310026).



KLAIPEDA PORT ENTRANCE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS IN PUBLIC HEARINGS AND COMMUNITY MEETINGS
in the preparation rof thi Environmental Impact Assessment Report, the following people participated
in the meeting held in KSSA's office on 11 May 1999 to discuss the technical issues on the design of
the breakwaters:
Klaipeda State Seaport Authority
A. Barbys          - acting managing director
N. Severincik       - deputy director, harbour master
A. Draugelis        - deputy director, chief engineer
V. Kaunas           - head of PIU
R. Valatka          - head of construction and exploitation department
V. Pilipaviciene    - senior hydraulic engineer
R. Neniskis         - hydraulic engineer
A. Banionyte        - head of project and contract department
Z. Bruzas           - engineer of project and contract department
Frederic R. Harris B.V.
J.C. van der Lem    - project manager, design team
Lithuanian Institute of Civil Engineers
T.P. Tubis          - chairman of institute
P. Lape             - engineer-architekt
L. Vaicekauskas     - head of civil engineering department of Klaipeda Universty
Klaipeda Universtiy
V. Paulauskas       - head of department of Klaipeda University
Uostamiescio Projektas
S. Stripinis        - chief architekt
State Company "Projektu Ekspertize"
G. Tugui           - chief expert
Private
S. Kvaa            - engineer



KLAIPEDA PORT ENTRANCE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
LIST OF INVITED NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS FOR THE PUBLIC HEARINGS OF
15 SEPTEMBER 1999
Lietuvos Metaloekology4 Draugija
Prezidente Danute Marciulioniene
Sevcenkos 13
2600, Vilnius
Lietuvos Hidrobiologu, Draugija
Prezidente Eugenija Mileriene
Juozapaviciaus 9
2020 Vilnius
Asocijacija Baltic Eco
Vadovas Kazimieras Baltruinas
Jogailos 9
2600 Viliiiis
Laikrastis "Klaipeda"
Siauli4 gatve 21
5800 Klaipeda
Lietuvos Geografu Draugija
Pirmininkas Riciardas Baubinas
Akademijos 2
2600 Vilnius
Ekologinis klubas "2vejon&"
Antanas Kontautas
Taikos 42-3
Klaipeda
Community "ATGAJA"
Linas Vainius, Project Manager
P.O. Box 156
LT-3000 Kaunas



KLAIPEDOS UOSTO IPLAUKOS TOBULINIMO PROJEKT(
GAMTOSAUGINES DALIES VIESAS SVARSTYMAS
1999m. ruYs jo 15d., 1 '.00 val.
Lietuvos juru laivininkyst-, konferenciju sale (J.Janonio 24)
Dalyviu sarasas
Nr.    Vardas, navardI   Organizaciia, imonn              Pareigos      I 
I                           I I           -\i'A>itQ','b              '       .i
$fio49_97/    I/~rs  //;tKt'/'tw  'j/  ;I , _X:>c 
_T - J
.,L H               ,*I (;  r~                    i 2   -,i *  . Sq 
A 4   j~z z v  2Z962; >   IU  A v   3            I  ________.___
a & '-   XI,qv,  -    L2&&e     t  l  /ti;Cz~ij   fi c    c{J   CJ'Cc . 5    YcpR   -   r
.Y/' L6   )/jA    t       -      j                  &t1 4 4} r /7'|cikw~Z
I Z   S / z-. f;             - _ __)  _ __     _   __'_,.__  _ _ _ _ _'__ _
I,4    Ib i _Xs _ _ _ _.     I  _ _   _  _  _  _                            _  _   __s  >
I  _     _     _    _      __                  _ u   _
_      _  _   __       _ I     _  _  _   _  _  _     I?c  _ __      _       _  _   __g S/ ; | -   t  d r /fa  > Z
lv2z sc7S; Pe 27'                                                       i      - 
_>  I2@g _      _       _   F   _       _6U'_           _     __/z/v-t  X~/
I  _   I _ ___                 ___                   
L                                      
=                           I3 



Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project Environmental Part Public Hearings
September 15, 1999, 14:00
Lithuanian Shipping Company's Conference Hall (J.Janonio 24)
List of partisipants
No      Name, Surename           Organization, Company               Position           Signature
1 Silvija Virsilaite         KSSA                            Public Relations
2 Vida Borteliene            "Klaipeda" newspaper            Correspondent
3 Ausra Pilaitiene           "Lietuvos Rytas" newspaper      Correspondent         _
4 Gabriele Vasiliauskaite    "BNS" news agansy               Correspondent
5 Mindaugas Milinis          "Vakaru ekspresas" newspaper  Correspondent
6 Arturas Razinkovas         Klaipeda University BPATPS      Director
7 Mindaugas Barys            KSSA Environment Department  Chief Specialist
8 Renata Perminaite          "Vakaru Lietuvos" TV            Editor
9 Algidras Petrauskas        Club "Zvejone"                  Member
10 Kestutis Suskus            Club "Zvejone"                  Member
I1 Kestutis Kvetkauskas       Club "Zvejone"                  Member
12 Ruta Skatikaite            "Respublika" newspaper          Correspondent
13 Saulius Pikirys            Lithuanian Greens' Movement   Project Manager
14 Linas Vainius              Community'"Atgaja"              Project Manager
15 Mahesh Reddy               MSI, USA                        Consultant
16 Valentinas Greiciunas      KSSA                            Deputy Director
17 Petras Stulga              KSSA                            Deputy Director
Deputy of the Head of
18 Zigmas Bruzas              KSSA                            Department
Cheef Engineer of
19 Algirdas Aukstolis         KSSA                            Department
20 Valerija Portapiene        KSSA                            Engineer Ecologist
Cheef Engineer of
21 Rolandas Rakevicius        KSSA                            Department
22 Rimas Neniskis             KSSA                            Hydaulic Enqineer
23 Juozas Karalavicius        KSSA                            Head of Department



Kiaipeda Port Entrance Rehabltaton Project
HARRIS
APPENDIX E
CORE DESCRIPTIONS OF SEDIMENT SAMPLES TAKEN BY CONSULTANTS
H7371  V flFalEvometlmpact Assessment                                                  September 1999



,  _0g a 4"  L.   LJ  0  0 a * eS   t L- IL  -
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,:
--ES:}U-~~~~~,-                -Won :
1~~~~~~~~~~~~C12
SOUTH BREAKWATER3
S  I
5 .0 .-:



GA        TS P-    _ GIESBERGER UNDERWATER         _______   orehole 1
J U T;S|              TECHNOLOGY ANO SERVICES   |       E:
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'                 date
depth below         sample             soil description
seabed In m         number
0.10  j                                            - ---- -  -- --
sampler                             position.           J     1Cr) J27    EAJ-
sample diameter  .______   _  jTX C$   CH 4^rNT   (71 -i A,%JiA)
J   remarks StA  Adf5  5fM 0             waterdepth -  .24zr 73 S
surveyor  <)1  G



G  L   S c GIESEERGER UNDERWATER                 borehole
G UTS    L     TECHNOLOGYAND SERVICE5                             bofr 'et4 U-
Nieuwe Gracht 54. 351 2 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'              date oLsJ/
depth below        sample             soll description
seabed in m.       number
O_~G                        ~      ATh              ) .S_. _
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0SU1 0A), .7-L . Mz G  t3                  ,      H
saampler                     ._?siticn kLJic-  C A0V 
sample diarneter      M_   L(Z  QL41t)    C  ;OAvF
j remarks;   s w       Af4?le   5fo waterdepth        2-     14.1S  H,A
surveyor



LT U   S      ~   GIES8ERGER UNDERWATER              HA\C            __brhe_
G UTS  7TECHNOLOGYAND SERVICES                   borehole
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'              date
depth below        sample            soil description
seabe d In m      number
0          _                                 _
2~~~~~T  &I,                   7-1ji co E tO   c    s
.   .  C            '~w8(~ ~/S rLt'6>   cOcj-v1s    D
sampler                           positlo.' G - fal!S2t4 W41A             s _
sample diameter .___________    iA             Cd144 :  .          C5E   5
i   remarks 3L>ffAd-CI    MZL    waterdepth             JVF43tO    -
'-j OrT- ;T~           surveyor ":&IES           i



GIESSERGER UNDERWATER  fE9            c  borehole   I D
GU TS               TEzCHNOLOGYAND SERVICES   ________-
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'             date ILiI4
depth below        sample            soil description
seabecd in m      numbe3r
. Io
sampler              _      _     Positio.             iL; Th(A(r ) FiJ-
sample diameter _____________   1A C./14( !7i
remarks 64C,         SftAZ    waterdepth : A5f 4rs.   /i 'e
Surveyor P   G4E



G   UTS    ~   GIESBERGER UNDERWATER  J  
G UTS        I       ITECHNOLOGYAND SERVICES                   borehole
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands                 c date
depth below         sample             soil description
seabed in m        number
I                 Thi"~~JLA~z"~. (pi   I Ay  / Ct13ri 6711
:                  t~~~~~~~F So L c  m-7-'
srampler                  .         p sItIor ;a-v           i    t 4A A
sample diameter                _                 C*1  vW       5ES   C ir
.. ) remarkfsSl(J~4d.fi2;f? -&      Sa+ waterdepth  12-> ' a      4 ' .      1'<
C)F 7J1t? Ftfd  SUrveyor -     Gif                         <     S
CV    OAr 04    e Of Tf  &oL-' YSX_



G   U    TI S    ~    QGIESBERGER UNDERWATER   __________orehole___
G UTS  JTECHNOLOGYAND SERVICES   722F ,r
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'               date
depth below        sample             soll description
seabed inm         number
c _ ~ ~     __       _ _   _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _   __r_      __:_
.   ///4           >GJ-O<   0  ~~~~SOL-~ -TheL
sa mpler   ___                 _ poSitlon.. k'     fi14  C'z  1tJAVQdt) at
sample diameter -__.____ _  - flHC{d    Ctt   .$*  C4<
9   remarkaS-I 'fV&Fd~  A't't          iKeaterdepth 1f2.d'z  f4r460   tgoS
-  - --               _    urveyor 'i-  GtF        s       
0 -          ...                                                      ._ 



GGU TSEERGER UNDERWATER                     I borehole
G UTnuS              TECH-NOLOGYAND SERVICESS
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands_ da te a
depth below         sample             soil description
seabed In m        flnumber
sampler                             position I6Li IZZ  (>l  >        /< i' )   -
sample diameter  .______                      -CgA__   rC4-r             C CT-
-)   remarks .4 ICC   SA  rf4^1st-      waterdepth  6'      U                  fz w   4 5 Y
surveyor



G   UTS       GIESEERGER UNDERWATER -   V   444pt
G    UTS        TECHNOLOGYANOSERVICES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EHOOGADSRVCS 11 -H'
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherliands  fdate
depth below        sample            soil description
seabed In m       number
s;ampler                      _  positio. j             (A  7   4 J)          .
sample diameter _    ___                        4 AsfA1   .- f   C-t __
remarks AVe. s"            54     waterdepth 12- S        -r- 4. 2     P er
surveyor en,  6L,.& 



G  U    16       ~~GIESBERGER UNDERWATER                      ohl
GzU TS   ffi TECHNOLOGYAND SERVCES    1borehol
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands~    CoLA        datc 4Cie te
depth below         sample             soil description
seabed in m        number
0--~~~.-
O_ mpler  __                        pos  I,IE .                                 _
sample di0ameater 
"Oremarks5L1JWCi'F  -"M            waterdepth
s;urveyor <t-6IF           ;



GIESBERGER LINDERWATEM    b_____h_____
G   U TS               TECHNLOGYANO SERVICES  fit  H A Gw4A:   bohole
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Ucrecht, the Netherlands'                 date  I
depth below         sample             aofl description
r;eabed In m       number
0-_ _ -_
sampler                             positlonr; F2Fr  Cii--  3
sample diameter ____              _  74C' C                     S        f
remarks -,;W 'FAC C      ?Me    waterdepth   -C . D417F -   35   /,
surveyor    f  CiEVC<(.



G       U TS         j             ~GIESSERGEiR UNDERWATER  |borehole sL )K
Nieuwe Grscht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netheriandr4s' 'date
depth below         sample              Boil cdescription
seabed Inm          number
.anpa                                  pD. -o' s ITs t Ion      44 7-1(15IA
campler cosiamoter                                                             CtA gkA4 ( d6) 
)   rernarkc25t FI4C/E6 ;        H'&_   ~waterdepth 12.3co kt .47-c
surveyor /Ois6
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



{ G    U   TS    i     3 TECHINOLOGYAND SERVICES    7\C H64  !Eu
Nieuwe Grecht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Nether'Isre                 d    2
depth below        sumplo              moil doscrlptlon
se0b8ed In m       numbor
_ :  R: .L~&~ OE ^4A                              W ~ -   >SD;Li' AP
0.5
Ogar                          l                           ~-?  t^(gos ~il  ti     C"4+ O  64f #8I 'C
1.0 
sample diameter                    .   Ae/Yi5 C,-f'qAJ;        s-e e   '1
remarks                             waterdepth  K1S        ASfr   2-.3CO Hff1
-ourveyor



SIE5BERGER UNOERWATER                        bor'hol    )42
GUTS  lo7J TECFlNODLOQYAND 8ERVICES                      HOf t          h
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands                   date
depth below         sample              soil description
seabe d In m        numbor
0-~~~
.  g~~~~~--
_  .   S            h    4 
*1..19
sapl c.aee                                                -:,"AWLI
remarks.waterdepth                                      --  A-7- ,
.     cy , o 20 _ u) 4 T f 1EAV       OpA fC          .{'C^ur oeyo
_   o         {3fi          OL/5'v  G 'tSIy LITt1-  Fl           S t-T
2,0-.,_.
cample    dlam eter  ___ ___   __     ____    ___   ___    ___   ___    ___   __
romarkn, . ~~waterdjepth 6I$OSU A7S755.4 ,i,wc
.   ~      ~              .   B~urveyor It/1' - ;csl Gi 



"T' ~   ~    GISSBERGER UNDEPWATER       _________
GUT S       GTECHNOLGYAND SERVICES
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'    t                ate
depth below          sarmple             eoll description
seabed In m         numborb
J. do .
C-L
.   gr~~~~;1
remark                            watedept
..    ... /g14~TE~ .~ue
2.0
_ ~~~. 
.60        s~~~~2~
_..
samplerKt r) V'^Aid  m' e7 &!O{<poslt5o..s<  je9           >t'4Q .M)   &J-
) samp lo dia m ter .________  7m$r\JC{   Q10/gAI L 
remarks___ .*_ waterdepth                              .    S 4T1~    3 I'JtV
^-          - -           _ ~~~~surveyor  t    i 5 G



LUT**rs   ~   GIESBERGER UNDERWATER   _______C_______borehole
OUTS       TECHNOLOGY AND SERVICES   7-h t-LJ 4
Nieuwe Grache 54, 3512 LT Utrech. the Necherlands                d ate   -/
depth below        sarmple            soil description
seabed In m        number
* ii.4 e                                                  S4r.    ' 
.~~~~; W
_- . ,,
1.0
1.5
.,,4....
1.65
2.0-
sarnpler4w01fi1y~eq /t   position./C>84f (7884   f   
sample diameter ______   _ _W__t_ C__ _                                _t__t _
remarks  ___ waterdepth <3 -AA
surveyor



LJ-S G1S5RER3ER UNDERWATER
TECHNOLOGYANOSERVICES   7w1  Ag641
Nieuwe Grecht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlsnde                 a   2
depth below        sample             soil description
soabecd In m       numbor
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~. AAI:
.0-
S~.
g~~~L .'~           po    IoA1 1, i- ,,'                    .'-
2.30-
sample diameter ______________ ____C_ __                       S C__
remarks: _   _  .                , waterdepth                '1O         C i,Z 4
surveyor



f|GIESBERGER UNDERWATER s~1 44  
ri UIT!S l|  ^TECHNOLOGYAND SERVICES  1E                                 bo rhE ohole
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'                       date
depth below           srample              soll description
seabed In m   ..     numb cr
-J- 
_        ,*  .     ,                      '
2.0
I-        4:1V    , F5S  I
.'~~~~~~~~ ,ai3  .'                            O'~ _4. .t~ '   ,4&.t .4       .
'--V.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------
3.0
unmpls,%*iAzfld         &6&   POSItIonACA  Pf: A  L*4A7-ft 60
Sample   diameter   ______________
rermrks                                Watardepth ..               ,A-               '..4
surveyor  0- I  s 6 -< C



DcJT      GSIESSERGER UNDERWATER        |        A     r
TECHNOLDGYAND SERVICES    T2 rLk.,4         bore he
Nieuwe Gracht- 54, 3512 LT ULJrechZ, the Netherlands'                date
depth bdelow        sample              5oll description
seabed In m.        number
.~El.
2.0~~~~~~~~~~~a.
,,_~~ ~~~~~ .                             .            ,   .
sample.diameter                                                           A  _  .''
seampl datmrter ___pth D               4A d       C              5
surVeyor



U TS           ~~~GIESBERGER UNDER4WATER  bi(ccvitorehole q} 
G U T  S               TECHNOLOGY ANDE ERV TCICE5    _
Nieuwe Gracht- 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlande                  cte date   L _
depth below         sample              sol1 descripticn
seabed In m         number
, * X Wi - y # zc rTLL
sample diameter                     .27
remarks                              waterdepth I2.50 X  AT 6  34cts"
surveyor        6'; f?



G UT-r S            GIESBERGER UNDERWATER                       borehole
OUTS ~~LJTECHNOLOGY AND SERVICES
Nieuwe Gracht 54. 3512 LT ULrecht. the Netherlands                date  2
depth below         sample            soil description
seabed in m        number
.0
'.5-
P-    . o                      sy~              e*''m
samplerPfAB i4b'>    E'  ~position 
sample diameter __        __  __ _              Ck14                C) A,4
remarks  ___  waterdepth -2.6& >A J4Tt < Zs tie/
surveyor



G UTS             f   TECHNOLOGYANO SEjRVICES |     e7? nA   1
Nieuwe Grecht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht. the Netherlands''               dt
depth below        sample             soll description
senbed in m        number
1.c  /1      6E9   bf1n~ t7-LL  -4if Sog- L
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s-arnple diamneter                  uro -                       s6-E C. C  J7 
rernarks    __ __watercdepth -12 .0 - AU6.cre
-   -                     ~~~~~~~stJrVeyor  ftCP.> 



Q  S C]   GIESSERGER UNDEPWATE.                 borehole
G   UTS              'r TECHNODLGYAND SERVICES
Nieuwe Grecht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Nethernands'             date  2...
depth below        sample            soil description
seabed In m       number
. 1'      I11LL
sampler              A4(6-'I41I6C'    M~14t2Cpositio.. Z(4/ "E"A  (lItAl}P')   %.
sample diameter                    J7AL         G,V _. Se  cstia'?T-
remarks_       __                 waterdepth 12.5-'14t  A7r1 -o #1P
Surveyor  if   l?EG   L5&



-|               |GIESB ERGER UNOERWATER                         bore hto
G U TS ;;;9    |   TECHNOLOGYAND SERVICES                4#. 4 9CE    borehole   e  1Z
Nieuwe Grecht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Nethernirds'                   da
depth below         sample              soil description
seabed In rn.       number
n  r_                _ _  _  _ __  _  _ _  _  _ __  _  _ _  _  _ __  _  _ _  _  _
)s;ample cdierneter                  -
rfsmarks _ ~~~waterdfepth -42.5o2i,' 
_ _              _   xi~~~urveyor t*    sER        G



S La    TS l           TECHNOLDOYANO SERVICES -S     i A (U
Nieuwe Gracht 54, 3512 LT Utraecht, the NetheNands'   te6            dt   13
depth below         sample             soil description
sseabed In m       numbor                                        ,
oi||/  -           _______________________________
.0                                    I,,' ,jpo ,         X ,'''
:   -    .  ,   F~~~ ~~.1:.....             ''                   '
..~~ ~~'   f I           ,',                                  
3.0~~~~~~~~,
_~~~~~~sr .4t                                       C .'
2.0-                            . e 2            S      O
,,  1.                                        *  .... . 
.-~~~~~ ~~~~~~ .  .    ,,"             ''
2.0 -.                         ,     ureyo f4'i't-- S J5 Bi'f
_     _    .  ...                                              _   .   ..   .  



GUTS                 GIESBERGER UNDERWATER                     borehole
MUTS  TECHNOLOGY AND SERVICES    76
H(OLL4A)JO
Nieuwe Gr-acht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlends            date
depth below        sample           soil description
seabed In m       number
d   ~~~~rAA~1                                                     1 ~'- &''~ 
.1 . **.
2.0
samnple deiamete _e
) remarks________waterdepth 13.5b-   Ar4y0JPt
surveyor
_    X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



G U T  5   i  3   Cl158EME ER3 F   U NDEPW ATER   |A   b    h   l      + 1
G UTS                 TEHODYN B-VCSE   boruhole    L2
Nieuwe Grecht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'              C        te
depth bdow         sample            soil description
scabed In m        number
10              _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Si
rernarksA-.1- .                   tret
1.o- .                             u
. ~2o  .       .0_  .*
g ~    ~     41-~a fEl 7        }6  T             W
. 4.
sasmpil dlarneter _______  *  rTY}4C'f5 C            WI'C_         C, f1'
remarkss Ar 2.b                    waturdepth 12 X. 4APP 16.41o JfzJ%
57t1 ThTTiAJ& &&57  Of' Th1f surveyor t-1!5                6     
.51v"L157k43   W4AS CutifX   N1 Lw,AL                  cwOrf p- Zg   ,LGw>.



G LI rs ~~GIE8BERGER UNDERWATER
G UTS ffi- f fc ei                                                              l
Nieuwe Grtacht 54. 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netheriands'             date
depth below        sarmple           sol description
seabed in mr      number
Jremarks                          _waterdepthZI.M.. i4T'P .40io 
surVeyar l   3



GIESBERGER UNDERWATER                       borehole
CBUT S          ~~~TECHNDLOGY AND SERVICES
Nieuwe Gr-acht 54., 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands               cdate
depth below         sample             soil description
seabed In m        number
0-~~~~~~~~~~~-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                        .
_~~~~~~a 'a
2~.0
sape  diaete
_~~~- V
_~~~~' ,  s.
_~~~~ ..E
sr..
1.50W_                                                
sampiereJ&t1iJ   II             C'trvpo sition kE 2 ,4e>(>AsZ    S
sample diameter                                   GtJt_.;=C
-)   remarks                            waterdepth 4fi ii7.  I1fTM 
surveyor



GIES63ERGER UNDERWATER         P1 I c.        borehole BOY
G U S  TECHNOLDOYAND SERVICES
Nieuwe Gr'scht 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'             date I
depth below        sa3mple            soil description
seabed In m        number
..     :_  __         __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
.   .                    ~~pro ov '~ Sw             o  OcBteoae
snampler o7J ,ti,o,7C 1C         F<Positio    c kCfv pj    fOJtH tA )-  t-
sBample diameter          .7_ _   ._ _                v        se   CH f
remarks_  waterdepth -o - SO  1   AFkV                                   91%
surveyor f?Jt .GIEFS 6



GIE-SSERGER UNDERWATER
|    GUTS   Li TECIHNOLOGYAND SERVICES                          borehole
Nieuwse Gracht 54. 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands              date
depth bdow         sample            soll description
seabed In m       number
.       {,  ~~~~ G4e                        9P'-gq       4i <'s j  TILL
samplerftt                        potsiRCetIon in*ot>> 4
s;ample diameter
remarks                           waterdepth  2           I"eA<
surveyor Pn1G;          i



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-e.
G.IJ UlGIESBERGER UNDERWATER                        borhole
UTS        | TECHNOLOGY AND SERVICES                            hole
Nieuve Gracht 54. 3512 LT Utrechtc the Netherlands                  date
depth below         sample             soil description
s;eabed In m        number
0-
1.5
samrpIer$A(6L ~T' )^C' Jlh> >p5to  ka4   5A(1                         sd 
sample diameter .______ _______
remarks                              waterdepth.7 I 6oair
surveyor



GUTS   \  GIESBERG3ER UNDERWATER  i c                              borehoie Xt<
Nieuwe Gr-echt 54, 3512 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands'                   dte
depth below          sample              soll description
seabed in    . ,   number
sampIari~f~)t'1fAr>      ~ "Cfs positionnkLe}(5L    Lt
sample diameter _                                 Ct't
remarks                               waterdepth   .5< +   4 71 *. tf X
surveyor



G U TS ~    ~         GIESBERGER UNDERWATER   Jr<!C        n,.  boreholeS&f22
l     vU STECHNOLOGY AND SERVICES   -
Nieuwe Gr'echt 54, 35112 LT Utrecht, the Netherlands               date 2f.
depth below         saimple            soil description
seabed In m        number
O~~_ _   .__          ''_ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _
sampler f*% t                    ; positlon 14IA 
sample diameter                      7TWC  C-A           (Z
remarks                             waterdepth   .3tw v . -fli2o  rK
surveyor






Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project                                                    HARRIS
APPENDIX F
PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL ANALYSES RESULTS
OF SAMPLES TAKEN BY CONSULTANTS
H7371    Draft Final Environmental Impact Assessment                                       September 1999



SGS Laboratory Services
1            S    G    S    A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
Planetenlaan 2
Postbus 8204                                                EDC
3301 CE Dordrecht                                           Amaril 1
Nederland                                                    2719 TR Zoetermeer
Tel (078)-6545351
Fax (078)-6185540
R.C. Dordrecht No. 2324666                                   t.a.v. Drs. R.W. van Oostrum
pagina   1
datum    Dordrecht   26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever       EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie        :KLaipeda
Bemonsterd door   Opdrachtgever
Monsteromschrijvingen: 1    0-060 m 2/4/99 BH1 $1                                        (Grondmonster   )
2    0-060 m 12/4/99 BH4 $1                                    (Grondmonster   )
3    0.60-0.80 m 2/4/99 BH1 S2                                 (Groncknonster   )
4    0.60-1.65 m 12/4/99 BH4 $2                                (Grondmonster   )
5    0-0.90 m 13/4/99 BH4 $1                                   (Grondmonster   )
Monstercode                                                       1           2           3           4            5
Monsterontvangst datum                                            19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                           eenheid
FYSISCH CHEMISCHE BEPALINGEN
Droge stof                          gew%                         74          77          90          76           82
Gtoeiverlies                        gewXds                        1.2         0.63        2.2         1.4          0.50
CHLOORVERBINDINGEN
EOX                       als CL  mg/kgds                       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1
FOSFORVERBINDINGEN
rotaat fosfor             als P   mg/kgds                      390         320          280         350         260
ZWARE METALEN (AAS/ICP)
Arseen                    als As  mg/kgds                       < 5         < 5         < 5         < 5         < 5
Cadmium                   als Cd  mg/kgds                       < 1         < 1         < 1         < 1         < 1
Chroom                    als Cr  mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10          22          11        < 10
Koper                     als Cu  mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10          15        < 10        < 10
Lood                      als Pb  mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10
Kwik                      als Hg  mg/kgds                       < 0.3       < 0.3       < 0.3       < 0.3       < 0.3
Nikkel                    als Ni  mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10          14        < 10        < 10
Zink                      ats Zn  mg/kgds                        18          16          46          18           13
MINERALE OLIEN
Minerale olie (GC)                  mg/kgds                    < 50        < 50        < 50        < 50        < 50
ORGANO-CHLOORPESTICIDEN
PCB nr. 28                          mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr. 52                          mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      c 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
(zie voLgende pagina)   (
Member of the SGS Group (Societe Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



f                        ~~~~~SGS Laboratory Services
"O       S                    A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina   2
datum     Dordrecht *26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever       EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie          Ktaioeda
Bemonsterd door   opdrachtgever
Monster omnschrijvingen : 1  :0-060 m 2/4/99 881 $1                                         (Grondknonster 
2  :0-060 mn 12/4/99 Sf14 Si                                    (Grondmonster 
3  :0.60-0.80 mn 2/4/99 BH1 $2                                  (Grorxdnonster 
4  :0.60-1.65 mn 12/4/99 884 $2                                 (Grondmonster 
5  :0-0.90 mn 13/4/99 81,4 $1                                   (Grorchnonster 
Monstercode                                                        1            2           3           4            5
Monsterontvangst datum                                             19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                            eenheid
PCB nr.101                           mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
PCB nr.118                           mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
PCB nr.138                           mng/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
PCB nr.153                           mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
PlxCB  tonrbu180  ee                 ig/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
HenxachLoorbutdenee                  mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
PetchLorezenmg/kgds                                             < 0.01       < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
-HCB                                 mg/kgdis                    < 0.001     < 0.001      < 0.001     < 0.001      < 0.001
LnaaHC                               mg/kgds                    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
HeptachLoor                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
B3-HCH                               mng/kgds                   < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
TeLodrin                             eg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
Heptachloorepoxide                   mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
a-Endosutfan                         mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
p,p-DDE                              mng/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
o,p-DDD                              mng/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
o,p-DDT                              mng/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
p,p-DDD                              mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
Atdrin                               mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
isodrin                             mng/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
t,p-DDE                             mng/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
Dietdrin                             mng/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
Endrin                               mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
p,p-DDT                              mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
IONCHRaMATOGRAFISCHE BEPALINGEN
Nitraat                    aLs N03 mng/kgds                    < 10         < 10         < 10          22        < 10
POLYCYCL ISCHE AROMAT ISCHE KOOLWATERSTOFFEN
NaftaLeen                  V         mng/kgds                    < 0.1       < 0.1        < 0.1       < 0.1        < 0.1
Fenantreen                 V         ing/kgds                   < 0.1        < 0.1        < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1
Antraceenl                 V         mg/kgds                     < 0.1       < 0.1        < 0.1       < 0.1        < 0.1
Ftuoranteen                V         mg/kgds                    < 0.05       < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Benzota]antraceen          V         ing/kgds                    < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Chryseen                   V         mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05       < 01.05     < 0.05       < 0.05
Benzo(k]fLuoranteen        V         mng/kgds                    < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Benzo [a] pyreen           V         mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Benzo(ghi)peryLeen         V         mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
(zie volgende pagina)
Member of the SGS Group (Societe Generale de Surveillance)                                                                (~
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



SGS Laboratory Services
OWN SG S                       A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina : 3
datum: Dordrecht, 26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever   : EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie         Ktaipeda
Bemonsterd door: Opdrachtgever
Monster omschrijvingen: 1    0-060 m 2/4/99 SH1 $1                                   (Grondmonster   )
2    0-060 m 12/4/99 BH4 $1                                (Grondmonster   )
3  : 0.60-0.80 m 2/4/99 BH1 $2                             (Grondmonster   )
4  : 0.60-1.65 m 12/4/99 BH4 $2                            (Grondinonster   )
5    0-0.90 m 13/4/99 BH4 $1                               (Grondmonster   )
Monstercode                                                   1          2           3          4           5
Monsterontvangst datum                                        19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                         eenheid
Indenot123cdJpyreen      V       mg/kgds                   < 0.05      < 0.05      <0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
PAK's tot. 10   (V: VROM)         mg/kgds                   < 1        < 1         < 1        < 1         < 1
ZEEF ANALYSES
*     2 .m                       gew%ds                      1.2        0.66       16          1.6         0.83
*    16 gm                        gewYds                      1.6        0.68       33          2.1         1.2
e    50 gum                       gew%ds                      3.4        2.7        56          3.3         3.8
*    63 gum                       gewds                     3.8         2.8        59          3.5         4.0
<   212 gm                        gew%ds                     90         92          80         92          64
(zie voLgende pagina)
Member of the SGS Group (Societe Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to yOU.



SGS Laboratory Services
AMNS 1                          A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina   4
datum: Dordrecht   26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever      EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie       : Klaipeda
Bemonsterd door   Opdrachtgever
Monsteromschrijvingen: 6    0-0.95 m 13/4/99 8H17 $1                                  (Grondmonster   )
7    0.95-1.85 m 13/4/99 8H17 $2                             (Grondmonster   )
8    0-1.0 m 2/4/99 BH2 S1                                   (Grondmonster   )
9    0-1.0 m 13/4/99 BH7 $1                                  (Grondmonster   )
10    0-1.0 m 12/4/99 BH3 $1                                  (Grondmonster
Monstercode                                                    6           7           8           9           10
Monsterontvangst datum                                          19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                          eenheid
FYSISCH CHEMISCHE SEPALINGEN
Droge stof                         gew%                        78         74          69          82          79
Gloeiverties                      gew%ds                        0.76       1.1         2.3         0.70        0.89
CHLOORVERBINDINGEN
EOX                      als Cl  mg/kgds                     < 0.1       < 0.1         0.25      < 0.1       < 0.1
FOSFORVERBIND INGEN
Totaal fosfor            aLs P   mg/kgds                     370         320         400         120         380
ZWARE METALEN (AAS/ICP)
Arseen                    ats As  mg/kgds                     < 5        < 5         < 5         < 5         < 5
Cadmium                  aLs Cd  mg/kgds                     < 1         < 1         < 1         < 1         < 1
Chroorn                   als Cr  mg/kgds                   < 10          10          14        < 10          10
Koper                    als Cu  mg/kgds                    < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10
Lood                     als Pb  mg/kgds                    < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10
Kwik                     als Hg  mg/kgds                      < 0.3      < 0.3       < 0.3       < 0.3       < 0.3
Nikkel                   als Ni  mg/kgds                    < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10
Zink                     als Zn  mg/kgds                       14         17          26          11          12
M.IINERALE OLIEN
Minerale olie (GC)                 mg/kgds                   < 50       < 50        < 50        < 50        < 50
ORGANO-CHLOORPESTI CIDEN
PCB nr. 28                         mg/kgds                    < 0.01     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr. 52                         mg/kgds                    < 0.01     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.101                        mg/kgds                     < 0.01     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.118                        mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.138                        mg/kgds                     < 0.01     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.153                        mg/kgds                     < 0.01     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.180                        mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Hexachtoorbutadiene               mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Pentachloorbenzeen                 mg/kgds                    < 0.01     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
HCB                               mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
a-HCH                              mg/kgds                    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
Lindaan                           mg/kgds                    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
Heptachloor                       mg/kgds                     < 0.01     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
B-HCH                             mg/kgds                    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
Telodrin                          mg/kgds                     < 0.01     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
(zie volgende pagina)
Member of the SGS Group (Societe Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



SGS Laboratory Services
S G S     A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina : 5
datum    Dordrecht   26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever   : EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie         Klaioeda
Bemonsterd door   Opdrachtgever
Monster oamschrijvingen: 6  : 0-0.95 m 13/4/99 BH17 S1                                    (Grondmonster
7    0.95-1.85 m 13/4/99 BH17 $2                               (Grondmonster    )
8    0-1.0 m 2/4/99 6H2 $1                                     (Grondmonster    )
9    0-1.0 m 13/4/99 BH7 $1                                    CGrondmonster    )
10    0-1.0 m 12/4/99 BH3 $1                                    (Grondmonster
Monstercode                                                       6           7           8           9            10
Monsterontvangst datum                                            19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                          eenheid
leptachloorepoxide                 mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
a-EndosuLfan                       mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
p,p-DDE                            mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
o,p-DDD                            mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
o,p-DDT                            mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
p,p-DDD                            mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
Aldrin                             mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
Isodrin                            mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-DDE                            mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
Dieldrin                           mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
Endrin                             mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
p,p-DOT                            mg/kgds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
IONCHROMATOGRAFISCHE BEPALINGEN
Nitraat                   als N03 mg/kgds                        12        < 10        < 10        < 10           15
POLYCYCLISCHE AROMATISCHE KOOLWATERSTOFFEN
Naftaleen                 V        mg/kgds                      < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1        < 0.1
Fenantreen                V        mg/kgds                     < 0.1        < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1
Antraceen                 V         mg/kgds                     < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1        < 0.1
Fluoranteen               V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
.enzota]antraceen         V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Chryseen                  V        mg/kgds                      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Benzo[k]fluoranteen       V        mg/kgds                      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Benzo[a]pyreen            V        mg/kgds                      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Benzotghi]peryleen        V        mg/kgds                      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Indenot123cd]pyreen       V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
PAK's tot. 10   tV: VROM)          mg/kgds                      < 1         < 1         < 1         < 1          < 1
ZEEF ANALYSES
<     2 pim                        gewYds                         0.59        1.4         0.72        0.24         0.50
<    16 gm                         gewYds                         0.64        1.5         1.0         0.36         0.50
<    50 g.M                         gew%ds                        1.4         3.0         5.7         0.60         1.8
<    63 iLm                         gewYds                        1.4         3.1         6.3         0.60         2.0
<   212 pm                          gew%ds                       77          86          89           7.6         82
tzie volgende pagina) 
Member of the SGS Group (Societe Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



SGS Laboratory Services
VhS I3                          A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina   6
datum    Dordrecht   26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever       EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie          Klaipeda
Bemonsterd door   Opdrachtgever
Monsteromschrijvingen: 11    0-1.20 m 13/4/99 BH15 $1                                      (Grondmonster
12    0-1.30 m 13/4/99 BH6 $1                                   (Grondmonster
13    0-1.40 m 13/4/99 BH13 $1                                  (Grondmonster
14    0.35-2.30 m 2/4/99 SH5 $2                                 (Grondmonster
15    1.0-0.35 m 2/4/99 BH5 $1                                  (Grondmonster
Monstercode                                                       11          12          13           14          15
Monsterontvangst datum                                            19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                           eenheid
FYSISCH CHEMISCHE SEPALINGEN
Droge stof                          gew%                        79           79          80          79          72
Gloeiverlies                        gewYds                        0.53        0.72        0.54        0.62         1.6
CHLOORVERBINDINGEN
EOX                       als CL  mg/kgds                      < 0.1        < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1
FOSFORVERBINDINGEN
Totaal fosfor             als P   mg/kgds                      260          260         190         340         350
ZWARE METALEN (AAS/ICP)
Arseen                     aLs As  mg/kgds                     < 5          < 5         < 5         < 5         < 5
Cadmium                   als Cd  mg/kgds                      < 1          < 1         < 1         < 1         < 1
Chroom                    aLs Cr  mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10        < 10        < 10           16
Koper                     als Cu  mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10
Lood                      aLs Pb  mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10
Kwik                      aLs Hg  mg/kgds                      < 0.3        < 0.3       < 0.3       < 0.3       < 0.3
NikkeL                    aLs Ni  mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10        < 10        < 10        < 10
Zink                      aLs Zn  mg/kgds                     < 10           14          10          12           18
MINERALE OLIEN
iineraLe oLie (GC)                 mg/kgds                    < 50        < 50        < 50         < 50        < 50
ORGANO-CHLOORPESTICIDEN
PCB nr. 28                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr. 52                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.101                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.118                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.138                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.153                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      <0.01
PCB nr.180                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
HexachLoorbutadiene                 mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PentachLoorbenzeen                  mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
HCB                                 mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
a-HCH                               mg/kgds                     < 0.001    < 0.001      < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
Lindaan                             mg/kgds                    < 0.001    < 0.001       < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
HeptachLoor                         mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01.    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
f-HCH                               mg/kgds                    < 0.001    < 0.001       < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
TeLodrin                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
(zie volgende pagina
Member of the SGS Group (Societe Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



SGS Laboratory Services
S G    S                A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina   7
datum    Dordrecht, 26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever      EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie       :Kllaieda
3emonsterd door   Opdrachtgever
Monster omschrijvingen :11    0-1.20 m 13/4/99 BH15 $1                                    (Grondmonster   )
12    0-1.30 m 13/4/99 BH6 $1                                  (Grondmonster   )
13    0-1.40 m 13/4/99 BH13 $1                                 (Grondmonster   )
14    0.35-2.30 m 2/4/99 6H5 $2                                (Grondmonster   )
15    1.0-0.35 m 2/4/99 BH5 $1                                 (Gronckonster   )
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---  --- ---  --- --- ---  --- ----_     --- --- ---  - _---   --- ---  ---------_ - ---  --- ---  --- ---
Monstercode                                                     11          12           13          14          15
Monsterontvangst datum                                          19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                          eenheid
Heptachloorepoxide                 mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
a-Erndosulfan                      mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
p,p-DDE                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-DDD                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-DDT                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
p,p-DDD                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
Aldrin                             mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
isodrin                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-ODE                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
Dietdrin                           mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
Endrin                             mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
p,p-DDT                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
IONCHROMATOGRAFISCHE BEPALINGEN
Nitraat                   aLs N03 mg/kgds                    < 10        < 10        < 10           10          29
POLYCYCLISCHE AROMATISCHE KOOLWATERSTOFFEN
Naftateen                 V        mg/kgds                    < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1        < 0.1
Fenantreen                V.       mg/kgds                    < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1          0.12
Antraceen                 V        mg/kgds                    < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1        < 0.1       < 0.1
Fluoranteen               V        mg/kgds                    < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05         0.14
,enzo[a]antraceen        V         mg/kgds                    < 0.05     < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
Chryseen                  V        mg/kgds                    < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05         0.050
Benzo[k]fLuaranteen       V        mg/kgds                    <0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05       <0.05
BenzoCaJpyreen            V        mg/kgds                    < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05
Benzo[ghijperyLeen        V        mg/kgds                    < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05       < 0.05      < 0.05
Indeno[123cd]pyreen       V        mg/kgds                    < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
PAK's tot. 10   (V: VROM)          mg/kgds                    < 1         < 1         < 1          < 1         <
ZEEF ANALYSES
<     2 ulm                        gew%ds                       0.85        0.60        0.50         0.60        0.14
<    16 pm                         gew%ds                       0.95        0.60        0.50         0.63        0.24
<    50 gm                         gew%ds                       1.2         1.6          1.5         1.2         2.9
<    63 gm                         gew%ds                       1.3         1.6         1.6          1.2         3.1
<   212 gm                         gew%ds                      82          68          34          78           94
(Zie volgende pag
Member of the SGS Group (Societe Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



SGS Laboratory Services
S G                     A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina   8
datum: Dordrecht   26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever      EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie         Klaipeda
3emonsterd door: Opdrachtgever
Monsteromschrijvingen :16   : 1.0-2.0 m 2/4/99 BH2 $2                                     (Grondmonster   )
17  : 1.0-2.60 m 13/4/99 BH7 $2                                 (Grondmonster    )
18  : 1.0-2.60 m 12/4/99 BH3 $3                                 (Grondmonster   )
19  : 1.20-2.10 m 13/4/99 BH15 $2                               (Grondmonster   )
20    1.50-1.70 m 2/4/99 BH2 $3                                 (Grondmonster   )
Monstercode                                                       16          17          18          19           20
Monsterontvangst datum                                            19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                           eenheid
FYSISCH CHEMISCHE BEPALINGEN
Droge stof                          gew%                        76           84          79          79           36
Gloeiverlies                        gew%cds                      2.3          1.0         1.1         0.60        16
CHLOORVERBINDINGEN
EOX           -           aLs CL  mg/kgds                      < 0.1        x 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1          1.4
FOSFORVERB INDINGEN
Totaal fosfor             als P   mg/kgds                      410          160         370         310        1000
ZWARE METALEN (AAS/ICP)
Arseen                    als As  mg/kgds                      < 5         <5           < 5         < 5            6.7
Cadmium                   als Cd  mg/kgds                      < 1         < 1          < 1         < 1            1.2
Chroom                    als Cr  mg/kgds                     < 10        < 10           13        < 10          45
Koper                     aLs Cu  mg/kgds                     < 10        < 10         < 10        < 10           22
Lood                      aLs Pb  mg/kgds                     < 10        < 10         <10         < 10           17
Kwik                      als Hg  mg/kgds                      < 0.3       < 0.3        < 0.3       < 0.3       < 0.3
NikkeL                    als Ni  mg/kgds                     < 10        < 10         < 10        < 10           16
Zink                      als Zn  mg/kgds                       20           19          21          12           99
MINERALE OLIEN
linerale olie (GC)                 mg/kgds                    < 50        < 50        < 50        < 50       < 500
ORGANO-CHLOORPESTICIDEN
PCB nr. 28                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      <0.01
PCB nr. 52                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.101                         mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.118                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01
PCB nr.138                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      <0.01
PCB nr.153                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01       <0.01
PCB nr.180                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Hexachloorbutadiene                mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Pentachloorbenzeen                  mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
HCB                                 mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
a-HCH                               mg/kgds                    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001         < 0.001
Lindaan                            mg/kgds                     < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001         < 0.001
Heptachloor                         mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
B-HCH                               mg/kgds                    < 0.001    < 0.001    ' 0.001        < 0.001     < 0.001
Tetodrin                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
(zie volgende pagi
Member of the SGS Group (Soci6t: Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to You.



SGS Laboratory Services
S    G S                A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina   9
datum: Dordrecht, 26/07/1995
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever       EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie        : Klaipeda
Bemonsterd door   Opdrachtgever
Monster omschrijvingen: 16  : 1.0-2.0 mn 2/4/99 BH2 $2                                     (Grondmonster   )
17  : 1.0-2.60 m 13/4/99 BH7 $2                                 (Grondmonster   )
18  : 1.0-2.60 m 12/4/99 BH3 $3                                 (Grondmonster   )
19  : 1.20-2.10 m 13/4/99 BH15 $2                               (Grondmonster   )
20  : 1.50-1.70 m 2/4/99 BH2 $3                                 (Grondmnonster   )
Monstercode                                                       16          17          18          19           20
Monsterontvangst datuxm                                           19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                           eenheid
Heptachloorepoxide                  mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
an-Endosulfan                       mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
p,p-DDE                             mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-VDD                             mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-DDT                             mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
p,p-DDD                             mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Aldrin                              mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
!sodrin                             mg/kgds                    < 0.01      < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-DDE                             mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Dieldrin                            mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Endrin                              mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
p,p-DDT                             mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
I ONCHROMATOGRAF I SCHE BEPAL I NGEN
Nitraat                   als N03 mg/kgds                     < 10         < 10          13        < 10        < 10
POLYCYCLISCHE AROMATISCHE KOOLWATERSTOFFEN
Naftaleen                  V        mg/kgds                     < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1
Fenantreen                V         mg/kgds                       0.28      < 0.1         1.2       < 0.1         0.33
Antraceen                  V        mg/kgds                     < 0.1       c 0.1         0.29      < 0.1       < 0.1
FLuoranteen               V         mg/kgds                       0.33      < 0.05        1.4       < 0.05        0.44
3enzota]antraceen         V         mg/kgds                       0.16      < 0.05        0.28      < 0.05         0.16
Chryseen                  V         mg/kgds                       0.12      < 0.05        0.65      < 0.05         0.23
Senzo[k]fLuoranteen       V         mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05        0.20      < 0.05      < 0.05
Benzota]pyreen            V         mg/kgds                       0.080    < 0.05         0.44      < 0.05         0.12
Benzolghi]peryleen        V         mg/kgds                    < 0.05       < 0.05        0.19      < 0.05      < 0.05
Indenol123cd]pyreen       V         mg/kgds                    < 0.05      < 0.05         0.17      < 0.05      < 0.05
PAK's tot. 10   (V: VROM)           mg/kgds                       1.1       < 1           4.8       < 1            1.3
ZEEF ANALYSES
<     2 gm                          gew%ds                        0.79      < 0.1         0.17      < 0.1          4.3
<    16 pm                          gew%ds                        0.96        0.15        0.24      < 0.01         5.4
<    50 lim                         gew%ds                        3.2         2.0         3.0         1.5        37
<    63 iLm                         gew%ds                        3.4         2.0         3.3         1.6        38
<   212 pm                          gew%ds                       91          10          83          77          74
(zie votgende pagia
J
Member of the SGS Group (Socidte Generale de Surveillance)
Ali orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



SGS Laboratory Services
SG SA division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina   10
datum    Dordrecht   26/07/1995
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever   : EDC
Omschrijving
Referentie       : Klaipeda
Bemonsterd door   Opdrachtgever
Monsteromschrijvingen: 21  : 1.30-2.40 m 13/4/99 BH6 $2                                   (Grondmonster   )
22  : 1.40-2.60 m 13/4/99 BH13 $2                               (Grondmonster   )
23    2.40-3.0 m 13/4/99 BH6 $3                                 (Grondmonster   )
Monstercode                                                       21          22          23
Monsterontvangst datum                                            19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
Parameter                           eenheid
FYSISCH CHEMISCHE BEPALINGEN
Droge stof                          gew%                        72           80          85
GLoeiverlies                       gew%ds                         1.8         0.52        0.50
CHLOORVER8 IND INGEN
EOX                       als Cl  mg/kgds                      < 0.1        < 0.1       < 0.1
FOS FORVER3 I ND INGEN
TotaaL fosfor             als P   mg/kgds                      450         400          140
ZWARE METALEN (AAS/ICP)
Arseen                    als As  mg/kgds                      < 5          < 5         < 5
Cadmium                   als Cd  mg/kgds                      < 1          < 1         < 1
Chroom                    aLs Cr  mg/kgds                       12        < 10         < 10
Koper                     als Cu  mg/kgds                     < 10        < 10         < 10
Lood                      als Pb  mg/kgds                     < 10        < 10         < 10
Kwik                      als Hg  mg/kgds                      < 0.3        < 0.3       < 0.3
NikkeL                    aLs Ni  mg/kgds                     < 10        < 10         < 10
Zink                      als Zn  mg/kgds                       22           13          16
MINERALE OLIEN
Minerale olie (GC)                 mg/kgds                    < 50        < 50         < 50
ORGANO-CHLOORPESTICIDEN
PCB nr. 28                         mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr. 52                          mg/kgds                    < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.101                         mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.118                         mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.138                         mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.153                         mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
PCB nr.180                         mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
HexachLoorbutadiene                mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
Pentachloorbenzeen                 mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
HCB                                mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
a-HCH                               mg/kgds                    < 0.001      < 0.001    < 0.001
Lindaan                            mg/kgds                     < 0.001      < 0.001    < 0.001
Heptachloor                        mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
i3-HCH                             mg/kgds                     < 0.001    < 0.001    < 0.001
Telodrin                           mg/kgds                     < 0.01       < 0.01      < 0.01
(zie volgende pagi a)
Member of the SGS Group (Societe Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions fiied at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



SGS Laboratory Services
S G                     A division of SGS Redwood Nederland B.V.
pagina   11
daturn: Dordrecht , 26/07/1999
ANALYSERAPPORT 9904000674
Opdrachtgever : EDC
Omnschrijving
Referentie        :Klaipeda
Bemonsterd door   Opdrachtgever
Monster omschrijvingen: 21    1.30-2.40 m 13/4/99 BH6 $2                                    (Grondmonster
22    1.40-2.60 m 13/4/99 BH13 $2                               (Grondmonster
23    2.40-3.0 m 13/4/99 BH6 $3                                 (Grondmonster
 __-                                                                               -   -     -   -     -    -    -    -    -    -     -
Monstercode                                                       21          22           23
Monsterontvangst datum                                            19/04/99   19/04/99   19/04/99
--             -    -     -     -     -    -    -     -       -   -    -     -    -     -     -    -     -     -     -    -     -     -
Parameter                           eenheid
Heptachtoorepoxide                  mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 001
a-EndosuLfan                        mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
p,p-DDE                             mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-DDD                             mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-DDT                             mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
p,p-DDD                             mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Aidrin                              mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Isodrin                             mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
o,p-DDE                             mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
DieLdrin                            mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
Endrin                              mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
p,p-DDT                             mg/kgds                     < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
IONCHROMATOGRAFISCHE BEPALINGEN
Nitraat                    als NO3 mg/kgds                     < 10        < 10        < 10
POLYCYCLISCHE AROMATISCHE KDOLWATERSTOFFEN
Naftaieen                  V        mg/kgds                     < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1
Fenantreen                 V        mg/kgds                     < 0.1       < 0.1          0.17
Antraceen                  V        mg/kgds                     < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1
Fluoranteen                V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05        0.15
3enzo[a]antraceen          V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
Chryseen                   V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
SenzoRkjftuoranteen        V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
Benzota]pyreen             V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
Benzotghi)peryLeen         V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
IndenoE123cd)pyreen        V        mg/kgds                     < 0.05      < 0.05      < 0.05
PAK's tot. 10   (V: VROM)           mg/kgds                     < 1         < 1         < 1
ZEEF ANALYSES
<      2 gm                         gew%ds                      < 0.1       < 0.1       < 0.1
<     16 gm                         gew%ds                      < 0.01      < 0.01      < 0.01
<    50 gm                          gewXds                        2.6          1.6         1.5
<    63  m                          gew%ds                        2.6         1.6          1.6
<   212 pm                          gew%ds                       93          81          37
Ir.W.C.J. Hermans
Hoofd taboratorium
Het anaLyserapport mag niet anders dan in zijn gehee' worden gereproduceerd                             (taatste pagina)
Member of the SGS Group (Soci6te Generale de Surveillance)
All orders are executed only in accordance with the latest version of our conditions filed at the Rotterdam District Court.
Upon request the conditions will be sent to you.



Klaipeda Port Entrane Rehabilitation Project                                                             HARIS
APPENDIX G
TOXIC ANALYSES RESULTS
OF SAMPLES TAKEN BY CONSULTANTS
Wn737      rf Final Environmental Impact Assessment                                               September 1999



Aqua Survey, Inc.
TECHNICAL REPORT FOR THE TOXICOLOGICAL TESTING
OF SEDIMENT FROM KLAIPEDA, LITHUANIA
FREDERIC R. HARRIS B.V.
BADHUISWEG 11
2587 CA DEN HAAG
THE NETHERLANDS
June 10, 1999
Job  99-205
499 Poinc Bre--ze rRoad
Fkmingron. NJ OSS22
P'.one: 90S/78/-S, 00
Fax:   908/7SS-') I 65
E-mail: aquasurvev@aol.coni                                 o
:;,cb Sire: w,v.aquasur.ve.com_ _



uAqa Survey, Inc.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Biological Report
Signature Page .......1.. 
Summary Page .......                                                           2
I.   Introduction .................................... 3
II. Test Administration..                                                      3
A. Sponsor.                                                              3
B. Testing Facility .
C.   Dates of Experiment ..................................... 3
D. Study Participants.                                                   3
mI. Materials and Methods.                                                     3
A.   Sampling                                                            4
B. Solid Phase Testing                          .5
IV. Results and Discussion .
A. Solid Phase Testing.                                                  6
Water Quality Parameter Tables
Solid Phase M. bahzia Static Test
Table 1  Live Count ......... 7
Table 2  Temperature ......... 8
Table 3  D.C. ......... 9
Table 4 pH ......... 10
Table 5  Total Ammonia ......... 11
Table 6  Salinity ......... 12
APPENDIX
Raw Data
UPS Waybill .13
Chains of Custody .14
Manasquan Water Sample Receiving Forms.                                 15
Manasquan Water Chemical Analyses .17
Solid Phase M. baiia Static Test
Statistical Analysis .19
Benchsheets .24
Organism Transportation Sheets .40
499 Point Breeze Road / Flemington, NJ 08822
Phone: 908/788-8700  Fiax: 908/788-9165 E-mail: aquasurvey@aol.com  Web Site: www.aquasurvey.com



Aqua Survey, Inc.
SIGNATURE PAGE
TECHNICAL REPORT FOR TIE TOXICOLOGICALTESTLNG
OF SEDIMENT FROM KLAIPEDA, LITHUANIA
This report as well as all records and raw data were audited and found to be an accurate reflection
of the study. Copies of raw data will be maintained by Aqua Survey, Inc., 499 Point Breeze Road,
Flemington, New Jersey, 08822.
Jane 6orvell                                                          date
Quality Assurance Officer
Thomas J. Dolce                                                       Date
Study Director
Ja34  M. Todd                                                         Date
Vi   'resident
0n                             499 Poinr Breeze Road / Flemingron, NJ 08822
Phone: 908/788-8700  Fax: 908/788-9165 E-mail: aquasurvey@aol.com   Web Sire: www.aquasurvey.com



Aqua Survey, Inc.
TECHNICAL REPORT FOR THE TOXICOLOGICALTESTING
OF SEDINITENI FROM KLAIPEDA, LITHUANIA
STUDY INITIATION DATE
April27, 1999
PERFORNTTNG LABORATORY
Aqua Survey, Inc.
499 Point Breeze Road
Flemington, New Jersey 088722
SPONS OR
Frederic R. Harris B. V.
Badhuisweg 11
2587 CA Den Haag
The Netherlands
LABORATORY PROJECT rD
STUDY # 99-205
t                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
499 Point Breeze Road / Flemington, NJ OSS22
Phone: 908/788-8700  Fax: 908/788-9165  E-mail: aquasurvey@aol.com   Web Sire: www.aquasurvey.com



Aqua Survey, Inc
L    VMIRODUCTION
The objective of this study was to examine the toxicological properties of sediment from
Klaipeda, Lithuania.
Whole sediment toxicity of the nine samples from Klaipeda were assessed through 10-day
exposures with the amrphipod, Eohaustorius estuarius.
1L    TEST ADMIN-ISTRATION
A.    Sponsor
Frederic R. Harris B.V.
Badhuisweg 11
2587 CA Den Haag
The Netherlands
B.    Testing Facility
Aqua Survey, Inc.
499 Point Breeze Road
Flemington, New Jersey 08822
C.    Dates of Experimentation
Date of Study Initiation:       April 27, 1999
Date of Study Completion:       June 10, 1999
D     Study Participants
Thomas J. Dolce                 Study Director
Christopher Doyle               Culture Manager
G. Stephen Hornberger           Project Manager
Michelle Horvath                Technician
lMichelle Thomas                Technician
Laina Freyer                    Technician
m. MATERIALS AND METHODS
All testing was performed in accordance with ASTM. 1992. Guide for Conducting 10 -Day
Static Sediment Toxicity Tests with Marine and Estuarine Amphipods, E1367-92. American
Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia.
499 Point Breeze Road / Flemingron, NJ 08822
FI n    Phone: 908/788-8700  Fax: 908/788-9165 E-mail; aquasurvey@aol.com  Web Site: www.aquasurvey.com



Aqua Survey, Inc
A.    Sampling
Test sediment from the nine locations was collected by the sponsor. The samples
were received in good condition at ASI in Flemington, NJ, and stored in the dark at
4C. Upon arrival at ASI, all samples were logged in and assigned a unique sample
number. Sample identification numbers are listed below:
BH-A                 90859
BH-B                 90860
BH-D                 90861
BH-E                 90862
BH-F                 90863
BH-G                 90864
BH-I                 90865
BH-J                 90866
BH-K                 90867
Control sediment used in the solid phase testing with E. estuarius was obtained from
the site of organism collection and was provided along with the organisms from
Northwestern Aquatic Sciences, Newport, Oregon.
Manasquan Water, obtained from Manasquan Inlet, New Jersey, was used as the
overlay water. This water was tested according to ASTM guidelines to ensure its
purity. The results of water analysis and sample receiving logs for Manasquan Water
are included in the appendix.
4
499 Point Breeze Road / Flemington, NJ 08822
Y1    Phone: 908/788-8700  Fax: 908/788-9165 E-mail: aquasurvey@aol-com  Web Sire: wwwaquasurvey.com



Aqua Survey, Inc.
B.    Solid Phase Testing
Whole sediment toxicity of the nine samples was assessed through 1 0-day exposures
with the amphipod, E. estuiarius. The organisn, E. esturarius used in testing were
3-5 mm in size. They were received on May 5, 1999 and were held for two days
before test initiation, during which time they were acclimated to test salinity (20 - 2
ppt) and temperature (15  2 C).
Some of the samples were extremely sandy, consequently we were unable to ooiain
sufficient porewater to enable us to do ammonia measurements. Only one sample,
BH-E (ASI 490862) produced enough pore water for ammonia determination, this
was 18.8 mg/L. As this sample was below the 20 mg/L threshold suggested by
USEPA guidance, ammonia purging was not required and the testing on all samples
were conducted following a static non-renewal methodology.
The day before test initiation, five replicates of 175 rml of each sediment was set out
in 1-Liter Tripours. To each Tripour, 725 mL of Manasquan Water was carefully
added to minirnize the disturbance of the sediment All chambers were aerated to
ensure that the dissolved oxygen was maintained at greater than 90% saturation. The
sediment was allowed to settle overnight. Before the addition of the organism, E.
estuarius to the exposure chambers, water quality parameters (pH, temperature,
salinity and DO) were measured in the overlay water. Each chamber was stocked with
20 organisms. Testing was conducted in continuous light, - 500-1000 lux. Daily
water quality parameters were measured along with the total ammonia in one replicate
from each sample. Observations of the test organisms were also made daily.
After ten days of exposure to the nine sediment samples from Klaipeda, live count
data from the solid phase test was entered into a spreadsheet, sorted and tabulated.
A Standard Reference Toxicant test was performed and reference toxicant data were
entered into a program based on currently accepted methods for calculating an LC50.
A control chart can be found in the appendix.
5
0fX                          499 Point Breeze Road / Flemington, NJ 08822
Phone: 908/788-8700  Fax: 908/788-9165 E-mail: aquasurvey@aol.com  Web Site: www.aquasurvey.com



Aqua Survey, Inc.
IV.   RESULTS A1ND DISCUSSION
Test results as well as water quality parameters are summarized in the tables at the end of this
report. Raw data for biological effects and water quality parameters are presented in the
Appendix.
A.    Solid Phase Testing
After ten days, E. estuarius exposed to the nine samples of sediment from Klaipeda,
Lithuania did not show a statistically significant reduction in survival when compared
to the survival of organisms in the control. Normally the statistical comparison is
made to a reference sample, but in its absence the control was used as the basis for
comparison. In accordance with the 1991 USEPA guidance for dredged sediment
testing projects, samples are considered toxic if survival of organisms exposed to test
sediment are at least 20% less than the survival observed in the reference sediment
and this difference is statistically signficant (p<0.05) after a ten-day test period. These
results indicate that sample BH-I is statistically significant when compared to the
control however, since survival in this sarnple was within 20% of the control it is not
considered toxic under USEPA guidelines. No other samples were statistically
significant.
6
499 Point Breeze Road / Flemingron, NJ 08822
Phone: 908/788-8700  Fax: 908/788-9165  E-mail: aquasurvey@aol.com   Web Sire: www.aquasurvey.com



Table 1                          10-Day Soid Phase Test, Static  Species: E eiurvius
finitial Live Count 20        Job X:  99-205
Position #      ID                    Samule               Final Count          ?e:m Survival
36            0.01                  G Coal                      20              9
43            0-02               ASI $, 90944                   20
44            0.03                                              20 
26)           O.G4                                              20!
9    ._      0.05                                               19             99%/
18            1.01              Sediment BH-A                   20
1            1.02               .A51 X 90859                   20
42            1.03                                              18
2            1.04                                               19
11           1.05                                               1 5            92%          J
27           2.01               Sedimcnt BH-B                   17
22            2.02               ASI . 90860                    20
24            2.03                                              17
20           2.04                                               20
16           2.05                                       _       17             91%
46            3.01              Sedimnent BH-D                  16
45            3.02                AST # 90861                   17
23            3.03                                              19
10           3.04                                               19
50           3.05                                               20             91/
41            4.01              Sedimcnt BH-E                   16
17           4.02                ASIT# 90862                    17
49            4.03                                              20
19           4.04                                               18
25           4.05                                               20             91%
13           5.01               SedimentBH-F                    20
48            5.02                ASI # 90863                    16
8            5.03                                               20
7            5.04                                               15
39            5.05                                              18             89/I
37           6.01               SedimentBH-G                    17
14           6.02                ASI X 90864                    20
32            6.03                                              19
15           6.04                                               20
40            6.05                  _                           19             95%
21           7.01               Sediment BH-1                   16
30            7.02                ASI # 90865                   19
5            7.03                                               19
31            7.04                                              18
4            7.05                                               13             85%
29            8.01              Sediment BH-J                   20
47            8.02                  I # 90866                   19
3            8.03                                               18
35           8.04                                               18
33            8.05     _                                        20             950/
34            9.01              Sediment BH-K                   19
28            9.02                ASi 90867                     19
12           9.03                                               20
38            9.04                                              20
6_           9.05               _                               19             97%
Stalistically significantly lower than the control p = 0.05
7



Tabie 2                          10-Day Sotid Phase Static Readings                         Species:      E. estuariws
Temperature degrees C.                                     Job #:        99-20:5
fPosition#  TDh       Sa.,Die       0       1      2      3       4      5      6'      7       8      9      10   Low   Thih
36      0.01      Contrl       15.7   15.8   15.8   15.8   15.5   15.9   15.9   15.6   15.8   15.7   15.6
43      0.02    ASI# 90944    15.6   16.0   16.1   15.9   15.6   16.1   16.0   15.7   16.0   15.6   15.7
44      0.03                   15.8   16.0   16.1   16.0   15.7   16.1   16.1   15.8   16.0   15.7   15.7
26      0.04                   15.7   15.9   16.0   15.9   15.8   16.0   15.9   15.6   15.8   15.7   15.7
9      0.05                   15.6   15.6   15.7   15.9   15.7   15.6   15.7   15.6   15.4   15.6   15.5  15.4   16.1
18     1.01  Sediment BH-A   15.7   15.7   15.7   15.9   15.8   15.9   15.9   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.6
1      1.02    ASI #90859    15.9   15.8   15.9   16.0   16.1   16.1   16.0   15.9   15.7   16.5   15.7
42      1.03                   15.6   15.8   16.0   16.0   15.7   16.0   16.0   15.7   15.9   15.7   15.7
2      1.04                    15.6   15.8   15.9   16.0   16.1   16.0   16.0   15.9   15.7   15.9   15.7
1 1     1.05                   15.6   15.7   15.7   15.7   15.7   15.7   15.7   15.4   15.6   15.6   15.4  15.4   16.5
27      2.01  SediimentBH-B   15.8   16.0   16.0   15.9   15.8   16.0   16.0   15.7   15.9   15.7   15.7
22      2.02    ASI # 90860    15.5   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.8   15.8   15.8   15.7   15.6   15.5   15.7
24      2.03                   15.8   15.9   16.0   15.9   15.8   16.0   16.0   15.7   15.9   15.6   15.6
20      2.04                   15.7   15.8   15.9   15.9   15.8   15.9   16.0   15.7   15.7   15.6   15.6
16     2.05                    15.7   15.8   15.8   15.8   15.7   15.9   15.8   15.4   15.7   15.5   15.5  15.4   16.0
46      3.01  SedinienrBH-D   15.6   16.4   16.4   16.4   15.4   16.5   16.1   15.5   16.4   15.4   15.8
45      3.02    ASI # 90861    15.9   16.0   16.1   16.0   15.8   16.1   16.1   15.8   16.0   15.8   15.8
23      3.03                   15.6   15.8   15.9   15.7   15.8   15.9   15.8   15.6   15.8   15.5   15.6
10     3.04                    15.6   15.7   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.7   15.7   15.4   15.6   15.5   15.4
50      3.05                   16.1   16.4   16.4   16.3   16.2   16.4   16.4   16.0   16.3   16.1   16.0 I 15.4   16.5
41      4.01  Sedimient BH-E   15.7   16.0   16.0   16.0   15.5   16.0   16.0   15.5   15.9   15.5   15.6
17     4.02    ASI X90862    15.6   15.6   15.6   15.9   15.8   15.9   15.9   15.5   15.8   15.6   15.5
49      4.03                   16.0   16.5   16.4   16.4   16.1   16.4   16.4   16.0   16.3   16.0   15.9
19     4.04                    15.7   15.9   15.9   15.9   15.6   16.0   16.0   15.6   15.8   15.5   15.6
25      4.05                   15.7   15.9   16.0   15.8   15.6   16.0   15.9   15.5   15.8   15.7   15.7  15.5   16.5
13     5.01   Sediment BH-F   15.6   15.7   15.8   15.8   15.7   15.8   15.8   15.2   15.6   15.5   15.5
48      5.02    ASI #90863    16.1   16.3   16.3   16.2   16.0   16.3   16.4   15.9   16.3   15.8   15.9
8      5.03                    15.5   15.4   15.4   15.8   15.8   15.8   15.9   15.6   15.6   15.7   15.6
7      5.04                    15.7   15.6   15.6   15.8   15.8   15.8   15.9   15.6   15.6   15.7   15.6
39      5.05                   15.7   15.9   15.6   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.6   15.7   15.5  15.2   16.4
37      6.01  SedimentBH-G   15.8   16.1   16.0   15.9   15.6   16.2   15.9   15.6   16.1   15.6   15.3
14     6.02    ASI # 90S64    15.6   15.7   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.8   15.8   15.4   15.6   15.5   15.5
32      6.03                   15.7   15.9   15.9   16.0   15.8   15.9   16.1   15.7   15.6   15.7   15.7
15     6.04                    15.7   15.8   15.8   15.8   15.7   15.8   15.8   15.5   15.7   15.6   15.5
40      6.05                   15.7   15.9   15.9   15.9   15.2   16.0   15.8   15.4   15.9   15.4   15.5  15.2   16.2
21      7.01   SedinmetBH-1   15.8   15.9   16.0   16.0   15.8   16.0   16.0   15.7   16.0   15.7   15.6
30      7.02    ASI # 90865    15.8   15.9   16.0   15.9   15.8   15.9   16.0   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.7
5      7.03                   15.6   15.7   15.6   15.9   15.8   15.9   16.0   15.7   15.7   15.9   15.6
31      7.04                   15.8   16.0   16.1   16.0   15.6   16.2   16.0   15.6   16.0   15.6   15.7
4      7.05                    15.7   15.8   15.8   15.9   15.8   15.9   15.9   15.7   15.6   16.0   15.7  15.6   16.2
29      8.01   SedimentBH-J   15.7   15.9   15.9   15.9   15.8   16.0   16.0   15.7   15.7   15.7   15.7
47      8.02   .4SI # 90866    15.9   16.2   16.3   16.2   15.7   16.4   16.3   15.5   16.1   15.7   15.9
3      8.03                    15.7   15.8   15.9   16.0   15.9   16.0   16.0   15.9   15.7   15.9   15.7
35      8.04                   15.7   15.9   15.8   15.8   15.4   15.9   16.0   15.6   15.6   15.7   15.7
33     8.05                    15.8   15.9   15.9   15.9   15.6   16.0   15.9   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.7  15.4   16.4
34      9.01  SedimentBH-K   15.8   16.0   16.0   16.0   15.2   16.0   16.0   15.6   15.9   15.6   15.6
28      9.02    ASI# 90867    15.8   16.0   16.0   16.0   15.7   16.0   16.0   15.7   15.9   15.6   15.7
12     9.03                    15.6   15.7   15.7   15.8   15.7   15.8   15.S   15.5   15.7   15.6   15.5
38      9.04                   15.7   15.9   15.7   16.0   15.8   15.9   15.9   15.7   15.7   15.6   15.5
6      9.05                    15.7   15.8   15.8   15.9   15.8   15.9   15.9   15.7   15.6   15.8   15.6  15.2   16.0
Rante         3 15.2   16.5
temperature adjusted
8



Table 3                          10-Day Solid Phase Static Readings                         Species:       E. esruarius
DO me/L                                                    Job#:         99-205
Posi,.oni    ID#     Samrrle        0       1      2      3      4       5      6       7      s       9      10   Lo0      Hi:&
36      0.01      Conrol       8.43   8.22   9.02   8.37   8.64   8.32    8.54   8.73   8.49   891    8.93
43      0.02    AS! #90944    8.37   8.11   8.48   8.66   8.52    .1l1   8.38    8.36   8.42   8.75   8.88
44      0.03                   8.35   8.11    848   8.57   8.48   8.11   8.36    8.50   8.44   8.21    8.81
26      O.04                   8.45   8.25   8.44   8.65   8.57   8.45    8.60   9.09   8.55   8.76   8.99
9      0.05                   8.44   8.43   8.82   8.70   8.66   3.76   8.71    9.14   8.68   8.90   9.13   8.11    9.14
18      1.01   SedimenrBH-A   8.46   8.35   8.52   8.63   8.86   8.59   8.68    9.19   8.64   8.87   9.08
1      1.02    ASI # 90859    8.60   8.64   9.10   8.80   8.75   8.99   8.89   9.57   8.84   8.86   9.58
42      !.03                   8.41   8.18  .34   8.61    8.50    8.17   8.41   S.94   S.46   8.84   8.93
2      1.04                   8.63   8.57   9.03   8.84   8.77   8.92   8.83    9.63   8.81   9.01   9.39
l   11  1.05                   8.47   8.43   8.83   8.74   8.77   8.74   8.75    9.27   8.70   8.94   9.18   8.17   9.63
27      2.01   SedimcntBH-B   8.46   8.23   8.61   8.64   8.55   8.44   8.59   9.00   8.54   8.87   8.98
22      2.02    ASI #90860    8.46   8.28   8.66   8.67   8.51    8.51    8.64    8.48   8.51   8.21   8.95
24      2.03                   8.41   8.26   8.63   8.65   8.64   8.48   8.62    8.95   8.61   8.95   9.02
20      2.04                   8.43   8.28   8.25   8.65   8.50   8.52   8.64   9.07   8.53   8.64   9.03
16     2.05                    8.40   8.33   8.65   8.69   8.14   8.58   8.69    8.62   8.59   8.80   9.09   8.14   9.09
46      3.01   SedimmnrBH-D   8.40   8.05   8.49   8.60   8.64   8.04   8.34    8.81    8.38   8.85   8.91
45      3.02    AS! #90861    8.40   8.14   8.52   8.57   8.52   8.15   8.39    8.90   8.48   8.90   8.90
23      3.03                   8.47   8.31   8.61   8.71   8.62   8.54   8.70    8.62   8.59   8.80   9.04
10     3.04                    8.49   8.44   8.84   8.74   8.69   8.75   8.76   9.13   8.70   8.94   9.19
50      3.05                   8.33   8.02   8.43   8.56   8.56   8.00   8.21   8.74   8.37   8.71   8.83   8.00   9.19
41      4.01   SedimentBH-E   8.43   8.17   8.51   8.62   8.57   8.21    8.46   8.24   8.46   8.92   8.96
17     4.02    ASI # 90862    8.44   8.38   8.73   8.69   8.70   8.60   8.70    8.76   8.61   8.96   9.11
49      4.03                   8.30   8.01   8.42   8.53   8.39   8.01    8.24   8.75   8.36   8.73   8.82
19     4.04                    8.42   8.32   8.68   8.70   8.06   8.56   8.69   8.35    8.57   8.50   9.11
25      4.05                   8.49   8.28   8.65   8.68   8.66    8.50   8.63    8.94   8.58   8.37   9.02   8.01   9.11
13     5.01   Sediment BH-F   8.45   8.39   8.74   8.69   8.51    8.66   8.72   9.09   8.63   8.93   9.12
48      5.02    AS! # 90863    8.33   8.04   8.45   8.58   8.54   8.03   8.26    8.84   8.38   8.88   8.83
8      5.03                   8.45   8.48   8.90   8.74   8.64   8.76   8.69   9.21    8.68   8.90   9.14
7      5.04                    8.45   S.47   8.89   8.75   8.65   8.78   8.72   8.81   8.69   8.92   9.17
39      5.05                   8.41   8.18   8.65   8.65   8.44   8.27   8.50   8.90   8.47   8.86   8.88   8.03   9.21
37      6.01   SedimentBH-G   8.42   8.19   8.63   8.60   8.52   8.27   8.54   8.24   8.47   8.39   9.05
14     6.02    ASI # 90864    8.47   8.40   8.76   8.71   8.73   8.67   8.73    9.27   8.65   8.29   9.12
32      6.03                   8.41   S.23   8.61   8.66   8.52   8.40   8.54    8.96   8.45   8.57   8.92
15     6.04                    8.45   8.38   8.76   8.71   8.56   8.65   8.74   9.03   8.65   8.93   9.14
40      6.05                   8.41   8.19   8.61   8.67   8.60   8.21    8.48    8.S3   8.45   8.86   8.93   8.19   9.27
21      7.01   SedimentBH-I   8.41   8.26   8.68   8.65   8.60   8.53   8.67   9.05   8.54   9.00   9.06
30      7.02    ASI # 90865    8.46   8.24   8.60   8.68   8.55   8.45   8.61    8.79   8.44   8.91   8.99
5      7.03                   8.51   8.52   8.96   8.77   8.68   8.87   8.77   9.24   8.72   8.94   9.23
31      7.04                   8.50   8.21   8.59   8.70   8.58   8.38    8.59   8.45   S.34   8.88   8.99
4      7.05                    8.53   8.52   8.96   8.80   S.10   8.87   8.79    8.72   8.75   8.93   9.23   8.10   9.24
29      8.01   Sedimen:BH-J   835   8.26   8.64   8.68   8.53    8.45   8.60    9.04    8.57   8.35   8.98
47      8.02    ASI # 90866    8.38   8.08   8.48   8.61   7.93    8.03   8.28   7.99   8.43   8.17   8.83
3      8.03                   8.59   8.54   8.98   8.82   8.77   8.89   8.80   9.44   8.77   9.01   9.27
35      8.04                   8.48   8.25   8.61   8.70   7.88    8.35   8.55   8.71    8.54   8.25   8.94
33      8.05                   8.26   8.24   8.52   8.69   8.59   8.39   8.59   8.83   8.53   8.95   8.98   7.88   9.44
34      9.01   Sedimenr BH-K   8.46   8.21   8.62   8.69   8.70   8.33   8.56    8.78   8.49   8.80   8.97
28      9.02    AS! 8 90867    8.43   8.24   8.62   8.66   8.56   8.44   8.60   8.87   8.55   8.85   8.99
12     9.03                    8.47   8.41   8.79   8.70   8.68    8.70   8.73   9.05   8.65   8.92   9.16
3S      9.04                   8.44   8.21   8.60   8.68   8.44   8.28    8.52    8.89   8.50   8.72   8.95
6      9.05                    8.48   8.47   8.89   8,7S   8.72   8.84   8.76   9.25   8.71   8.94   9.18   8.21   9.25
Ranoc          7.88   9.63
9



Table 4                       10-Day Solid Phase Static Readings                    Species:     E. es2uarius
pHsu                                                 Job,:         99-2015
Position    D#     Sam-nle      0      1      2      3     4      5      6      7     8      9     1 0   Low   Him _
36     0.01     Conol      7.63   7.93   7.73   7.67   7.62   7.91   7.93   7.69   7.70   7.69   7.69
43     0.02   ASI - 90944   7.63   7.91   7.73   7.66   7.64   7.91   7.94   7.66   7.71   7.66   7.69
44     0.03                 7.62   7.91  7.72   7.65   7.63   7.89   7.93   7.67   7.70   7.66   7.68
26     0.04                 7.62   7.94   7.74   7.68   7.65   7.94   7.97   7.69   7.75   7.69   7.69
9     0.05                 7.61   7.93   7.73   7.63   7.67   7.89   7.92   7.67   7.72   7.70   7.66  7.61   7.97
18     1.01  Scdiment BH-A  7.60   7.92   7.66   7.65   7.64   7.91   7.95   7.68   7.72   7.70   7.69
1     1.02   ASI # 90859   7.62   7.98   7.83   7.65   7.75   7.20   7.89   7.66   7.67   7.74   7.63
4-2    1.03                 7.6i2  7.94   7.75   7.67   7.66   7.94   7.96   7.69   7.77   7.68   7.68
2      1.04.               7.63   7.94   7.78   7.65   7.73   7.51   7.89   7.65   7.67   7.76   7.62
1 1    1.05                7.62   7.93   7.73   7.65   7.66   7.89   7.92   7.67   7.71   7.68   7.67  7.20   7.98
27     2.01  Sediment BH-B  7.62   7.92   7.73   7.66   7.65   7.92   7.94   7.69   7.70   7.69   7.69
22     2.02   ASI 4 90860   7.60   7.93   7.75   7.65   7.65   7.91   7.95   7.65   7.72   7.66   7.67
24     2.03                 7.61   7.92   7.73   7.65   7.66   7.90   7.90   7.68   7.71   7.69   7.68
20     2.G4                 7.59   7.92   7.72   7.67   7.65   7.93   7.95   7.68   7.72   7.68   7.68
1 6    2.05 ___7.61   7.92   7.72   7.65   7.64   7.90   7.95   7.67   7.72   7.70   7.70  7.59   7.95
46     3.01  Sediment BH-D  7.62   7.92   7.74   7.68   7.61   7.92   7.93   7.65   7.76   7.63   7.66
45     3.02   ASI > 90861   7.63   7.91  7.73   7.66   7.63   7.91   7.93   7.67   7.73   7.66   7.66
23     3.03                 7.60   7.92   7.73   7.65   7.66   7.92   7.91   7.67   7.73   7.68   7.67
10     3.04                7.62   7.93   7.73   7.65   7.64   7.89   7.93   7.65   7.72   7.67   7.66
50     3.05                 7.65   7.96   7.78   7.72   7.66   8.00   7.99   7.71   7.81   7.70   7.70  7.60   8.00
41     4.01  Sediment BH-E  7.62   7.93   7.73   7.66   7.64   7.94   7.95   7.66   7.80   7.65   7.66
17     4.02   ASI 4 90862   7.60   7.91   7.65   7.63   7.64   7.89   7.92   7.66   7.74   7.70   7.69
49     4.03                 7.62   7.95   7.75   7.70   7.61   7.99   7.96   7.68   7.81   7.68   7.68
19    4.04                 7.59   7.91   7.70   7.66   7.63   7.92   7.95   7.66   7.73  7.67   7.68
25     4.05                 7.59   7.93   7.74   7.65   7.62   7.93   7.95   7.66   7.76   7.67   7.67  7.59   7.99
13     5.01  Sedimenlt BH-F  7.60   7.92   7.72   7.65   7.63   7.89   7.91   7.64   7.70   7.64   7.65
48     5.02   ASI 4 90863   7.63   7.92   7.74   7.67   7.64   7.98   7.93   7.68   7.75  7.67   7.67
8     5.03                 7.59   7.91   7.73   7.65   7.66   7.87   7.92   7.66   7.71   7.69   7.65
7     5.04                 7.60   7.90   7.74   7.65   7.66   7.86   7.92   7.66   7.71   7.70   7.66
39     5.05                 7.61   7.91   7.70   7.64   7.62   7.89   7.90   7.67   7.70   7.66   7.66  7.59   7.98
37     6.01  Sedimeit BH-G  7.62   7.93   7.73   7.64   7.60   7.92   7.93   7.67   7.74   7.65   7.66
14     6.02   ASI ' 90864   7.60   7.92   7.72   7.66   7.64   7.92   7.95   7.67   7.74   7.67   7.67
32     6.03                 7.64   7.96   7.76   7.70   7.67   7.96   7.98   7.70   7.76   7.69   7.69
15     6.04                7.60   7.92   7.74   7.67   7.65   7.92   7.95   7.68   7.75   7.70   7.68
40     6.05                 7.62   7.92   7.71   7.64   7.62   7.93   7.93   7.64   7.73   7.64   7.65  7.60   7.98
21     7.01  Sediment BH-1  7.59   7.91   7.73   7.66   7.65   7.92   7.95   7.68   7.74   7.68   7.68
30     7.02   ASI X 90865   7.62   7.93   7.73   7.66   7.63   7.92   7.93   7.66   7.6S   7.67   7.66
5     7.03                 7.65   7.97   7.81   7.71   7.70   7.88   7.95   7.67   7.75   7.72   7.64
31     7.04                 7.62   7.95   7.75   7.69   7.65   7.96   7.96   7.69   7.75   7.65   7.68
4     7.05                 7.64   7.95   7.78   7.68   7.68   7.84   7.92   7.64   7.72   7.70   7.62  7.59   7.97
29     8.01  Sediment BH-J  7.61   7.92   7.71   7.65   7.63   7.90   7.92   7.66   7.71   7.67   7.66
47     8.02   ASI 4 90866   7.64   7.93   7.75   7.69   7.63   7.92   7.95   7.68   7.75  7.66   7.67
3     8.03                 7.62   7.93   7.76   7.66   7.72   7.64   7.90   7.65   7.68   7.75   7.62
35     8.04                 7.63   7.94   7.74   7.68   7.64   7.92   7.95   7.68   7.73   7.68   7.69
33     8.05                 7.64   7.95   7.75   7.69   7.68   7.94   7.97   7.71   7.74   7.71   7.69  7.61   7.97
34     9.01  Sediment BH-K  7.63   7.93   7.74   7.67   7.64   7.93   7.95   7.68   7.72   7.68   7.70
28     9.02   ASI 490867    7.61   7.91   7.71   7.65   7.63   7.90   7.92   7.65   7.70   7.66   7.67
12     9.03                 7.60   7.91   7.71   7.63   7.65   7.88   7.92   7.66   7.69   7.69   7.67
38     9.04                 7.62   7.92   7.72   7.65   7.62   7.92   7.93   7.68   7.73   7.67   7.66
6     9.05                 7.64   7.95   7.78   7.70   7.72   7.90   7.95   7.70   7.74   7.73   7.66  7.60   7.95
I0Ran                                             7.20   8.00
10O



Table:5                          101Day Solid Phase Static Readings                         Species:       E_es arius
Total ammonia mZ/L                                         Job :99-205i
Position# D-         Sample         0       1      2      3      4       5       6      7      S       9      10   LowHiah
36      0.01      Control      ND                                                                        0.08
43      0.02    ASI $ 90944    ND                                                                        ND
44      0.03                   N'D                                                                       0.08
26      0.04                   0.09                                                                      0.17
9      0.05                   ND    ND    ND    ND          N'D    ND    ND    ND    ND    ND    ND    ND    0.17
18     1.01  Sediment BH-A   0.08                                                                       0.10
1      1.02    ASI # 90859    ND    ND    ND    ND          ND    ND       ND    ND    ND    0.08   N1D
42      1.03                   0 09                                                                      0.14
2      1.04                    ND                                                                        N-D
11      1.05                   ND                                                                        N      ND    0.14
2 7     2.01   Sediment BH-B   ND                                                                        ND
I   22  2.02    ASI X 90860    0.09                                                                      ND
24      2.03                   ND                                                                        ND
20      2.04                   0.11                                                                      0.11
16     2.05                   0.10   0.09    ND    ND       ND    ND       ND    ND    ND    0.09    ND    ND    0.11
46      3.01  Sediment BH-D   1.78                                                                       3.42
45      3.02    ASI # 90861    1.98                                                                      3.61
23      3.03                   1.97                                                                     3.28
10     3.04                    1.93   2.66   3.19   2.87   3.03   2.75   3.07   2.S6   3.33   3.61   3.05
50     3.05                    1.98                                                                      3.45   1.78   3.61
i   41      4.01   Sediment BH-E   4.84                                                                      13.60
17     4.02    ASI#1 90862    2.52   4.71   6.79   7.00    8.45   7.86   11.40   8.70   10.30  11.60  11.40
49      4.03                   3.08                                                                     11.50
19     4.04                   3.80                                                                      12.70
25      4.05                   3.33                                                                     11.30  2.52   13.60
13     5.01   Sedieniit BH-F   1.76                                                                     3.39
48      5.02    ASI # 90863    1.09                                                                      1.64
S      5.03                   1.56                                                                      2.30
7      5.04                    1.57   1.89   2.23   1.80   2.10    1.92   2.08   1.95   2.14   2.20    1.90
39      5.05                   1.70                                                                      1.S5  1.09   3.39
37      6.01   Sediment BH-G   2.56                                                                     4.86
14     6.02    ASI X90864    2.21   2.95   3.51   3.32   3.64   3.17   3.68   3.34   3.97   4.48   4.04
32      6.03                   2.60                                                                      4.48
15     6.04                    2.53                                                                     4.88
40      6.05                   2.50                                                                      4.5    2.21   4.88
21      7.01   SedimentBH-1   2.39                                                                       5.52
30      7.02    ASI # 90865    2.21                                                                      5.59
5      7.03                   2.60                                                                      5.37
31      7.04                   2.43                                                                      5.88
4      7.05                   2.53   3.93   5.03   4.89   5.66   4.98   5.72   5.00   5.83   6.13    5.33   2.21    6.13
29      8.01   Sediment BH-J   0.83                                                                     0.69
47      8.02    AS! 4 90866    1.02                                                                      0.76
3      8.03                   0.83   1.11   1.34   1.09    1.29   1.15   1.21   1.15   1.22   1.16   0.93
35      8.04                   1.03                                                                      1.04
33     8.05                    1.04                                                                      1.46   0.69    1.46
34      9.01   Sediment BH-K   0.74                                                                      0.31
28      9.02    ASI X90867    0.33                                                                      O.OS
12     9.03                    0.12                                                                      ND
3S      9.04                   0.46                                                                      0.17
6      9.05                    ND    ND    ND    ND         ND    ND    ND    0.09    ND    0.11    0.12   ND    0.74
Ranjc           ND    13.60
ND< 0.08 mg/L ammonia



Table  6                        10-Day Solid Phase Staric Readings                        Species:      F. estuarius
Salinity ppt                                             Job #:         99-205
Position4  T        Sample         O      1      2       3      4      5      6      7       8      9      10   Low   Hiz1
36     0.01      Control      19.7   19.9   1 1I5   20.0   20.2   20.4   20.4   20.6   20.7   20.8   20.7 7
43     0.02    ASI X 90944    19.8   19.8   19.8   20.0   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.6   20.5   20.7   20.5
44     0.03                   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.9   20.0   20.2   20.2   20.4   20.4  20.5   203
26     0.04                   19.7   19.7   19.6   19.8   19.8   20.0   20.0   20.1   20.2   20.2   20.1
9      0.05                   i9.8   19.9   19.8   20.0   20.0   20.5   20.5   20.S   21.0   21.1   21. 1   11.5   21.1
18     1.01  Sediment BH-A   19.3   19.4   19.3   19.4   19.5   19.8   19.7   19.9   20.0   20.1   19.9
1      1.02   .ASI'90859    19.1   19.2   19.3   19.4   20.0   19.6   19.7   19.8   20.1   20.1   19.7
42      1.03                  19.3   19.5   19.4   19.5   19.6   19.8   19.8   20.0   19.6  20.1   19.9
2      1.04                  193   19.4   19.3   19.3   19.3   19.6   19.5   19.6   19.8   19.8   19.5
I 1    1.05                   19.1   19.2   19.2   19.4   19.4   19.7   19.7   19.9   20.0   20.0   20.0  19.1   20.1
27     2.01   SedimentBH-B   19.7   19.7   19.6   19.8   19.9   20.1   19.9   20.3   20.3   20.4   20.2
22     2.02    ASI#9OS60    19.8   19.9   19.9   20.3   20.4   20.9   20.9   21.1   21.5   21.7   21.5
24     2.03                   19.6   19.7   19.6   19.7   19.8   20.0   19.9  20.1   20.2   20.3   20.1
20     2.04                   19.8   19.9   19.8   20.0   20.0   20.3   20.3   20.4   20.6   20.6   20.5
16     2.05                   19.8   19.9   19.9   20.0   20.1   20.4   20.4   20.7   20.7   20.8   20.6  19.6   21.7
46     3.01   SedimentBH-D   19.3   19.1   19.1   19.1   19.8   19.4   19.5   19.9   19.5  20.1   19.6
45     3.02    ASI #90861    19.8   19.0   19.0   19.1   19.2   19.4   19.3   19.5   19.5   19.6   19.5
23     3.03                   19.1   19.2   19.1   19.3   19.3   19.6   19.6   19.8   19.8  20.0   19.8
10     3.04                   19.1   19.2   19.2   19.4   19.5   19.8   19.8   20.1   20.2   20.4   20.3
50     3.05                   19.0   19.1   19.1   19.2   19.4   19.6   19.6   19.9   19.9  20.1   20.0  19.0   20.4
41     4.01   SedimenttBH-E   19.3   19.1   19.0   19.1   19.3   19.3   19.3   19.6   19.4   19.6   19.5
17     4.02    ASI # 90S62    19.7   19.5   19.5   19.6   19.6   19.7   19.7   19.9   19.8   19.9   19.8
49     4.03                   19.6   19.4   19.4   19.5   19.6   19.7   19.8   20.1   20.1   20.4   20.2
19     4.04                   19.4   19.2   19.1   19.2   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.7   19.6   19.8   19.6
25     4.05                   19.4   19.2   19.2   19.3   19.4   19.6   19.5   19.8   19.9   19.9   19.9  19.0   20.4
13     5.01   SedimentBH-F   19.8   19.8   19.7   19.9   20.0   20.2   20.2   20.6   20.6   20.7   20.5
48     5.02    ASI 890863    19.6   19.7   19.7   19.8   19.9   20.0   19.9   20.2   20.1   20.3   20.1
8      5.03                   19.8   19.9   20.0   20.2   20.2   20.6   20.5   20.7   20.9   20.9   20.8
7      5.04                   19.8   19.8   19.9   20.1   20.1   20.4   20.4   20.6   20.7   20.8   20.6
39     5.05                   19.7   19.8   19.9   19.9   20.1   20.6   20.6   20.8   21.2   21.2   21.2  19.6   21.2
37     6.01  SedimentBH-G   19.2   19.2   19.2   19.4   19.6   19.5   19.6   19.8   19.5   19.9   19.9
14     6.02    ASI  90864    19.4   19.4   19.4   19.5   19.6   19.9   19.8   20.1   20.2   20.3   20.1
32     6.03                   19.2   19.3   19.3   19.4   19.6   20.2   20.2   20.4   20.8   20.8   20.7
15     6.04                   19.2   19.2   18.3   19.1   19.4   19.6   19.6   19.8   19.8  19.9   19.8
40     6.05                   19.3   19.4   19.4   19.6   20.0   20.0   20.1   20.4   20.2   20.7   20.5   18.3   208
21     7.01   Sediment BH-I   19.6   19.5   19.4   19.5   19.4   19.6   19.6   19.7   19.6   19.8   19.6
30     7.02    ASI ' 90865    19.6   19.5   19.4   19.5   19.4   19.7   19.6   19.8   19.9   19.9   19.8
5      7.03                   19.7   19.6   19.6   19.7   19.7   19.9   19.8   20.0   19.9   19.9   19.9
31     7.04                   19.6   19.5   19.3   19.4   19.5   19.5   19.5   19.8   19.6   20.0   19.6
4      7.05                   19.5   19.5   19.5   19.6   19.6   19.9   19.8   20.0   20.2   20.1   20.1 J 19.3   20.2
29     8.01   SedirnentBH-J   19.2   19.3   19.2   19.4   19.4   19.8   19.7   19.9   20.1   20.1   20.0
47     8.02    ASI#90866    19.0   19.1   19.1   19.3   19.6   19.7   19.7  20.1   20.1   20.4   20.2
3      8.03                   19.2   19.3   19.3   19.4   19.4   19.7   19.6   19.7   19.9   19.8   19.7
35     8.04                   19.1   19.1   19.2   19.4   19.6   19.9   19.9   20.2   20.5   20.5   20.5
33     8.05                   19.0   19.1   19.0   19.1   19.3   19.6   19.5   19.8   19.8   19.9   19.8  19.0   20.5
34     9.01   SedimcntBE-K   19.3   19.3   19.3   19.4   19.9   19.8   19.8   20.1   20.0   20.2   20.1
2S     9.02   kASI 4 90867    19.3   19.3   19.3   19.4   19.6   19.8   19.6   19.9   19.9  20.1   19.9
'12    9.03                   19.4   19.5   19.5   19.6   19.7   19.9   19.9  20.1   20.1   20.2   20.1
38     9.04                   19.3   19.3   19.4   19.5   19.6   20.0   19.9  20.1   20.4   20.4   20.4
6      9.05                   19.3   19.5   19.5   19.6   19.6   20.0   19.9   20.1   20.3   20.3   20.2   _ 19.3   20.4
Ranic        ][ 11.5   21.7
12






CHAINS OF CUSTODY
ANTD
CHEMICAL ANALYSES OF MANASQUAN WATER
I



II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F_7
~:Ou.NT NO.    S      Vips VT. No.                                                                                        U     S
N' NO. jsSllPtR'8 var N0 ~W9()4 491 923 2
t Acop    tm         +   _     _,\( L                             WAY9LL /TRAwm NumsEpt                                 WAYBILL
_.~ io.~ No.          ~        c                   V it  I   Ii  I                          DELIVERY_(Non-Negotiable)
SATURDAY DELIVERY
A. C:, S   A  Z                                                                                  ;
C0uNTftY    I                      I                                        ..  
3  t=    I Express                    YI  I _                                                a 
L7                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CO
'_-OtJNT No.                           |                                                                                           Z  
CO
I T-tPHO.E No.
3 ADOpS.
i5     i&        V2gu    8_C                                                          17--,l:> r;;ai=nssr=si  
~~~X  C 2~ ~ ~~~~_. P7E  Tr                  W~    ToT EDo.wm-.r 2  I(   ct "
-3                                                /I                                 kg
COUNTFtY    '       OUPS eEo
t  ,,  S  A\  D~_ eH0  V.ue FoR  tWWRANCE
JUVSTI  ISB^LI REFERENCE No. 1
T   ~~~~~~~~~~~h.'REOEIVEZO FRUPS By                                                                     AE      TM
2.zJ
IREFERENCE No. 2
DeS0CPiFnOm OF GoocOS        uCCUS.es  -y
COUNIMTY                      _Ome                                                     O   .01
1 3



CHAIN OF CUSTODY RECORD
FACILITY/LOCATION: 4              METg0D OF SHIPMENT:-:v   t
TO      /Ir 
FROM /X,;l
SAMPLING AND ANALYSES AUTHORIZED BY:                 DATE:
SAMPLE SAMPLING LOCATION            SAMPLE TYPE # OF    ANALYSES
AND DESCRIPTION  DATE TIME C G  SOLID  CONT.   REQUIRED
xf4,/' ,A., t%.iDij      '/ 3   ;v4, _ Y' 4/1     l/7,-
SAMPLE COLLECTED BY:         EXACT SAMPLING LOCATION:
SAMPLE RELINQUISHED BY:      SAMPLE RECEIVED BY:        DATE   TIME
SAMLE  ELNQUSHD B:    SMPE RCEVEDBY  DAE   TMr,J
SAMPLE RELINQUISHED BY:      SAMPLE RECEIVED BY:        DATE   TIME
SAMPLE RELINQUISHED BY:      SAMPLE RECEIVED BY:        DATE   TIME
SAMPLE RELINQUISHED BY:      SAMPLE RECEIVED BY:        DATE   TIME
SAMPLE RELINQUISHED AFTER   ANALYZED SAMPLE RECEIVED BY:
ANALYSES:                                               DATE   TIME
SAMPLE DESCRIPTION:                            | OF CONTAINERS:
AQUA SURVEY, INC.
(908) 788-8700
14



(9 CHEMICAL LEAMANV lANK                                                    in~, fc. CONSIGNEE    MA-CACS R-LL N
102 PICKERNG WAY, EXTON  PA.. 19341-02M0________
3HIPPERF ij~                                                                     :'i:.T
______ __________                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~TRAILER SPOTTED TO LCAD  ~      
SI*lTPR AETDRIVR                                                            _-
-   SIGNATURE                                                 !ACIATIJRE    7       -.                      N 
-  -                ~~~~ACCESSORIAL CHAR.
TIME                DATE                            71lME                      DATE E-                ''                          AR.  PUE
N IF NOT U
SOIEDKQ THE DOCUMENTS FOR THIS SHIPMENT AND VERIFY THAT THERE IS ADEQUATEm STORAGE ROOM'TC REzCEIVE THIS SHIPMENT AND CONNECTION  1/ pUimp       CD
iMADE TO THE PROPIER STORAGE FAcILIy:                  CONSIGNEE,         .-                          DATE.                      LOAD  Ss       CUL
OATEE
--  DATE                                                                                                                   PUMP
d...,../.LU~~~~~~~~~~~'-'    _/ ~~~~UNLOAD S
SLOWER         D
______  _______                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAILE-R SPOTTED0 TO UNLOAD    jUNLOAD
DA7      RECEIVER AGENT         ,'          , ,  ,                   RVR           -  -           ?T. LAN:
'   SIGNATURE     \         .CLEI4.,                           SGNTRE        *-'        .-
TIME  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               -.      - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEE
TIME  ~      DATE                              TIME                      DATE                       -GALLC
COMMODITY AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DESCRIPInON                               QUANThrY       TEOAD        Z.
(MUST AGREE WITH DESCRIPTION ON SHIPPING ORDER)                                          1EPJT)
-                                      ________ j ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRANSFER
NAIL TRANSFER B
TRACTOR
___________________________________________________  _________NUMBERS
PRELAOA.
LINE HqAUL.
iUCTIONS                                                                                                                    RELAY I
.~~..*;.  .~~f>:...4..:..-.   ~~~~'~~'''~.:   *..,    - .. ~~~~   -.REL.AY 2
.                             ~~~~~~~~~~UNLOAD-BY
~S WAS ALL- OF PRODUCT DELIVERED /RECEIVED-9- YES      NO                    IF NO EXPLAIN:                              --TR
RECEIVER IS RESPONSIBL E FOR DETERMINING TI-AT ALL PRODUCT IS REMOVED FROM TRAILE-R
2  *.      .                ~~~~~CH;~
COE4TA
TERM PROCESSING
REVENUE PAPE-R
PERSON COMPLETING MANIFEST
CHEMTREC EMERGENCY HELP NUMBER- 1-800-424-9300_________
CITY     STAT E                                            IO.TROAT~~   TIME    DRVRILGH
T.  cTry  STAT-m            IDD4ATERIJT                                TIE       DRIVER 2~                          MMNC              GH
RIRST CITY IN STATEa OR       S1TAT        F1RST CITy IN STATEt OR       SAT-rI         FIRST CIT1Y IN STATE OR      I        CLE-ANING POINT
MAJO0R CHANGE IN DIRECTION       ME4        MAJOR CHANGE HN DIRECTION       CLC         MAJOR CHANGE IN DIRECTION       I___________
KTJZ~ (31~ EIJEL I TDtIL RECEIPTS
-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-



C: \PC6000\READINGS\MAN5_4.DAT
I 6000 Time Series Report                                                                                      Page 1
Date          Time                   Temp            SpCond    Salinity                      DO                pH
m/dd/yy hh:mmn:ss                       C              US/cm               PPT               mg/L
5/04/99  15:51:31                     11.29         43877.00                28.2              9.21               7.70
ASI, INC.
SAIMPLE RECEIVING FORMN
_    /lfl  t ^ '5 tn-  t- -   t -
za~~~~~~                  ~~~~~ W&W. c_:o!                       t1
I r
M-p-    -~ sn vcAL. Jdc  R 5-S.L.d)'*~                             -
W. W_ ~   ~        ~       ~-               ~  ~a 
_.~                f                 rv z-  |:' I r  |     I_  |          f  __| r,y |
.__ __..__                              _-_              . _        2    I       .      .   ._ 
1.__ __fW,/o _ __ - ___ __ 1 -_ 1r
1-_____                     I       I__  I            i___   T_____
1.  |_                 _  _      T    _ _   I _      I                    I                       I_ _ _
9.             __         _ ;      _ _ I _   I _ __   __                     ___    _ _
S .  ____  A _  _   _  _   _     _   _  _   _    I            ._               __     _ _  _
n  ;= u - lio ew Cl D D r .                                      C4o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a- aa
W . Wt,  
1~6



Z)UA SURVEY - Summary of Results for G7702 (Rec'd 4/28/98)
CLIENTSAMPLE 10: -Manasquan-WafnsidEVit :               CLIENTSAMPLE ID:   - Ma       4,iWateiifs Ie Vaf
LAB SAMPLE ID:  -          G                            LAB SAMPLE ID-0:
MIVOLATILES        "-RESULWR DSL -MDE,                                       -R SUETLTM
H'COMPOUNDS .: '.ppb<-                    (ppbW -   METALS                  '.-- (ppm.              prn)'
Nnaohthene                 <2.521 U  I       2 2    Aluminum                       <0.194 U 194
.naphthylene              <0.82| U   1       0.82    Antimony                      <0.056 U 1.11|   0.056
hracene                   <0.59 U   1        0.59    Arsenic                        0.025    1.11    0.006
izo(a)anthracene          <1.041 U   1       1.04    Barium                        <0.111 U 1.111   0.111
izo(a)pvrene              <0c711 U   1       0.71    Beryvlium                    <0.002 U 1.1       0.002
izo(b)fluoranthene        <1.38 U   1        1.38    Cadmium                      <0.0031U  1.11     0.003
izo(g,h,i)perylene        <0.63 U   1        0.63    Calcium                         318 -  1.11       1.11 I
izo(k)fluoranthene        <1.79 U   1        1.79    Chromium                     <0.009 U 1.11      0.009i
ysene                     <0.71 U   1        0.71    Cobalt                        <0.044 U 1.11     0.044
enzo(aTh)anthracene       <0.60 U   1         0.6    Coo er                       <0.017 U 1.11      0.017
oranthene                 <0.53 U   1        0.53    Iron                         <0.056 U 1.11      0.056
orene                     <0.64 U   1        0.64    Lead                           0.008    1.11    0.002
eno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene       <0.64 U   1        0.64    Magnesium                       938    50_         50
'halene                 <0.98 U   1        0.98    Manganese                    <0.011 U 1.11      0.011
anthrene                 <0.67 U   1        0.67    Mercury                    <0.00005 U   1.0       0.5
ene                       <0.61 U   1        0.61    Nickel                       <0.028 U 1.11      0.028
Potassium                      349       50       50
RESULT   Q  DIL    MDL-    Selenium                          <0.003 U 1.11     0.003
STICIDES               (ppb)       .      (ppb)      Silver                       <0.009 U 1.11      0.009
HC                        <0,03 U   1        0.03    Sodium                         7710      50        50
HC (Lindane)              <0.02 U   1        0.02    Thallium                     <o.009 U 1.11      0.009
HC                        <0.02 U   1        0.02    Vanadium                     <0.044 U 1.11      0.044
tachlor                   <0.02 U   1        0.02    Zinc                          0.062   1 1.11    0.017
HC                        <0.01 U   1        0.01
-in                       <0.02 U   1        0.02
)tachlor epoxide          <0.01 U   1        0.01
osulfan                   <0.03 U   1        0.03
-DDE                      <0.02 U   1        0.02
drin                      <0.02 U   1        0.02
rin                       <0.02 U   1        0.02
-DDD                      <0.03 U   1        0.03
n-,ulfan 11               <0.04 U   1        0.04
)T _                   <0.02 U   1        0.02
rin aldehyde              <0.06 U   1        0.06
osulfan sulfate           <0.04 U   1        0.04
srdane                    <0.22 U   1        0.22
aphene                    <2.20 U   1        2.20
noxvchlor                 <0.02 U   1        0.02
-:- -RESULT     -OI Q  IMDL|
3s           -  -. '  - .:'bj  . |        -;    .
31016                    <'0.22 U   1        022
31221                     <0.20 U   1         0.2
31232                     <0.30 U   1         0.3
31242                     <0.16 U   1        0.16
1248                     <0.31 U   1       0.31
,1254                     <O.13 U L 1        0.13
,1260     _<022 U  1                         0.22
17



ll LO  -t                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ------
C\j
x                                                              CD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .. ........ --------
.......... . ............ .......... ............ . ... . .....................
"t 74"
. ... ........
.....  ..... ..                                                                                                      ------                                                                                                                               cn
...........                      ...............                                  .......  ........
........  ......                                                                     .        ........
...         ...  ........             ..    ........  ........  ...                       .............                 ...............                            .......           .......
.........  .  ...............  ..                        ....  .                            .......    -------- ........  . - ....  ...                                ........  ........
........ ........ .......4........ ........ ....... ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ri (Z
E
... ........ .... ... ........ ....... .......
...  ........  ........  .......                                                  .... .  ..  .......I........  ........  ........  ........    ....... .
<
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ....... ........ ........ .....I.. ........ ........ ........
.  ........  ........    .......  ........  ........                                                                                 ..  ........ ........  ........
ci
J,.A            0                                                                                                              ........  ........  ........  ........  ........ ........  ........  ......I.  .......    ........  ........ ........  ........                                                                                                                                C
.. ....... ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ .... ... ........ ........ .......
z
LU                                                                                                     ....  ........  ........  .......                                            ..         ........  ....                                                      . .......
C,-
........ ....... ........ ........ ........ ....... ........ ........ .. ........ ........ ........ ...
...... ........ ....
cu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
CZ
cn                                                                                                                                   --------                       ........  ........ ........  ........  ......
z 0
o 0
>LL
L.L
tn  0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .6
rN
Ca
z    z
CL
rz
CO
-c   F=   ru
rn   co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      w-  n                         iz:
QD
cn_    C,
i75
-ci
70
C)             a)
E
zIt  -o                                   LU
Cq   C,                                    n    co                                      co  cn                                      -1 04 1 Cl                                                             -E3
C:
I 8






STATISTICAL ANALYSES



205 E. estuarius survival 5/7/99
-~: 99205.s         Transform: ARC SINE(SQUARE ROOT(Y))
niro - Wilk's test for normality
0.799
0.944
tical W (P = 0.05) (n = 50) = 0.947
tical W (P = 0.01) (n = 50) = 0.930
a PASS normality test at P=0.01 level. Continue analysis.
205 E. estuarius survival 5/7/99
e: 99205.s          Transform: ARC SINE(SQUARE ROOT(Y))
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
zlett's test for homogeneity of variance
-ulated Bl statistic =         9.97
---------------------------------------------------------------------__---
Le Chi-square value =   21.67   (alpha = 0.01, df =   9)
Le Chi-square value =   16.92   (alpha = 0.05, df =   9)
A PASS Bl homogeneity test at 0.01 level. Continue analysis.
19



99-205 E. estuarius survival 5/7/99
Z':     99205.s
-NSFORM: ARC SINE(SQUApRE ROOT(Y))                  NUMBER OF GROUPS: 10
) IDENTIFICATION   REP          VALUE           TRANS VALUE
-    --------C-ntrol   1--- 1___0_             -------------
Control    2            1.0000             1.4588
Control    2            1.0000             1.4588
Control    3            1.0000             1.4588
Control    4            1.0000             1.4588
Control    5            0.9500             1.3453
90859    1            1.0000             1.4588
90859    2            1.0000             1.4588
90859    3            0.9000             1.2490
90859    4            0.9500             1.3453
90859    5            0.7500             1.0472
90860    1            0.8500             1.1731
90860    2            1.0000             1.4588
90860    3            0.8500             1.1731
90860    4            1.0000             1.4588
90860    5            0.8500             1.1731
90861    1            0.8000             1.1071
90861    2            0.8500             1.1731
90861    3            0.9500             1.3453
90861    4            0.9500             1.3453
90861    5            1.0000             1.4588
90862    1            0.8000             1.1071
90862    2            0.8500             1.1731
90862    3            1.0000             1.4588
90862    4            0.9000             1.2490
90862    5            1.0000             1.4588
90863    1            1.0000             1.4588
90863    2            0.8000             1.1071
90863    3            1.0000             1.4588
90863    4            0.7500             1.0472
90863    5            0.9000             1.2490
90864    1            0.8500             1.1731
90864    2            1.0000             1.4588
90864    3            0.9500             1.3453
90864    4            1.0000             1.4588
90864    5            0.9500             1.3453
90865    1            0.8000             1.1071
90865    2            0.9500             1.3453
90865    3            0.9500             1.3453
90865    4            0.8000             1.1071
90865    5            0.6500             0.9377
90866    1            1.0000             1.4588
90866    2            0.9500             1.3453
90866    3            0.9000             1.2490
90866    4            0.9000             1.2490
90866    5            1.0000             1.4588
90867    1            0.9500             1.3453
90867    2            0.9500             1.3453
90867    3            1.0000             1.4588
90867    4            1.0000             1.4588
90867    5            0.9500             1.3453
20



205 E. estuarius survival 5/7/99
99205.s         Transform: ARC SINE(SQUARE ROOT(Y))
SUM-ARY STATISTICS ON TRANSFORMED DATA  TABLE 1 of 2
IDENTIFICATION    N        MIN         MAX         MEAN
Control    5       1.345        1.459       1.436
90859    5       1.047       1.459        1.312
90860    5       1.173       1.459        1.287
90861    5       1.107       1.459        1.286
90862    5       1.107       1.459        1.289
90863    5       1.047       1.459        1.264
90864    5       1.173       1.459        1.356
90865    5       0.938       1.345        1.169
90866    5       1.249       1.459        1.352
90867    5       1.345       1.459        1.391
205 E. estuarius survival 5/7/99
e: 99205.s         Transform: ARC SINE(SQUARE ROOT(Y))
SUMMARY STATISTICS ON TRANSFORMED DATA TABLE 2 of 2
IDENTIFICATION       VARIANCE         SD         SEM           C.V. %
Control           0.003        0.051       0.023         3.53
90859           0.030       0.172        0.077        13.11
90860           0.024       0.156        0.070        12.15
90861           0.020       0.143       0.064         11.11
90862           0.026       0.163       0.073         12.61
90863           0.037       0.192        0.086        15.20
90864           0.014       0.117        0.052         8.63
90865           0.031       0.176        0.079        15.02
90866           0.011       0.105       0.047          7.76
90867           0.004       0.062        0.028         4-47
21



205 E. estuarius survival 5/7/99
99205.s              Transformi:  ARC  SINE(SQUARE  ?ROOT(Y))
ANOVA TABLE
RCE                    DF                     SS                         MS                     F
ween                    9                       0.249                   0.028                 1.384
.hin  (Error)          40                       0.799                   0.020
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
al                     49                      1.048
__   - -_            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - -_ _ _ _ _ _ _
-itical  F value  =    2.12    (0.05,9,40)
nce F < Critical F FAIL TO REJECT Ho: All equal
227



205 E. estuarius survival 5/7/99
99205.s        Transform: ARC SINE(SQUARE ROOT(Y))
DUNNETT'S TEST   -  TABLE 1 OF 2              Ho:Control<Treatment
TRANSFORMED    MEAN CALCULATED IN
UP    IDENTIFICATION          MEAN          ORIGINAL UNITS    T STAT  SIG
Control       1.436              0.990
90859       1.312              0.920         1.390
90860       1.287              0.910         1.663
90861       1.286              0.910         1.680
90862       1.289              0.910         1.641
90863       1.264              0.890         1.923
90864       1.356              0.950         0.893
90865       1.169              0.830         2.993
90866       1.352              0.950         0.938
90867       1.391              0.970         0.508
nett table value =  2.51     (1 Tailed Value, P=0.05,  df=40,9)
205 E. estuarius survival 5/7/99
e: 99205.s        Transform: ARC SINE(SQUARE ROOT(Y))
DUNNETT'S TEST   -  TABLE 2 OF 2              Ho:Control<Treatment
------------------------------------------------------__-----------------
NUM OF   Minimum Sig Diff  % of     DIFFERENCE
UP   IDENTIFICATION      REPS     (IN ORIG. UNITS)  CONTROL  FROM CONTROL
Control     5
90859     5             0.105       10.7        0.070
90860     5             0.105       10.7        0.080
90861     5             0.105       10.7        0.080
90862     5             0.105       10.7        0.080
90863     5             0.105       10.7        0.100
90864     5             0.105       10.7        0.040
90865     5             0.105       10.7        0.160
90866     5             0.105       10.7        0.040
90867     5             0.105       10.7        0.020
------------------------------------------------------------------__------3
2 3



RAW DATA



99-205 E. estuarius soli d phase
Tsitiof       Sammle      1ASI No.        Code  I
361 Control                             0.li
431                 1          *1       0.2~
441                 1                   0.31
261                            *1       0.4
9!                 1                   0.51
181 Sediment BH-A         908591        l.
1]                 1          *i       1.2
42_                                      1.3
21                           *1        1.4
11                  I          *        1.51
'I 2SUdmerit BH-B        908601        2.11
221                            *1       2.2
241                           *1        2.3
201                            *        2.4
161                                     2.5
461 Sediment BH-0         908611        3.1
451                                     3.2
23                             *         3.3
50                   <          1       3.5
. i _ .             -_    _  ___ __    ___ _ _
2Sediment BH-             9086          4.1
49 _                i_,,                4.3
19 _                           i        4.4
2 1                 1 _        *        4.5
13 Sediment BH-$          90863         5.l
48                   _         i        5.2
81                                     5. 3
7                             *        5.4
39                             *5.5
37 Sediment BH-G          90864         6.1
14                 j*                   6.2
3 2    _________{ _____  *              6.3
15_                                     6.4
4                              *        6.5
21 Sediment BH-I          90865         7.1
3- 0                                    7.2
___  5 _                                   7.3
431                             C       7.4
29 Sediment BH-J|    90866              8.1
4= 471              L      _   2        8.
3         _      1          _        8.31
35~                        ___*         8.4
33 _                                    8.5
341 Sediment BH-1         908671        9.1
281                 1_______ 1          9.2
121                 1           1       9.3
381                 I __    _           9.4
6j 11                              -    9.5
24



C:\PC6000\PEADINGS\205EEO.DAT
6000 Time Series Report                                                  Page 1
Date     Time            Temp       SpCond    Salinity         DO          pH
m/dd/yy hh:mm:ss           C         US/cm        PPT          mg/L
5/07/99  8:45:18          15.85   30677.00         19.1         8.60        7.62
5/07/99  8:45:42          15.59   30909.00         19.3         8.63        7.63
5/07/99  8:46:01          15.68   30894.00         19.2         8.59        7.62
5/07/99  8:46:38          15.71   31249.00         19.5         8.53        7.64
5/07/99  8:47:09          15.63   31508.00         19.7         8.51        7.65
/077/99  8:47:30         15.74   31036.00          19.3        8.48        7,64
/07/99  8:48:01          15.69   31727.00         19.8         8.45        7.60
5/07/99  8:48:22          15.52   31636.00         19.8         8.45        7.59
5/07/99  8:48:39          15.57   31655.00         19.8         8.44        7.61
5/07/99  8:49:23          15.62   30694.00         19.1         8.49        7.62
5/07/99  8:49:41          15.59   30745.00         19.1         8.47        7.62
5/07/99  8:49:55          15.59   31180.00         19.4         8.47        7.60
3/07/99  8:50:10          15.59   31701.00         19.8        8.45         7.60
5/07/99  8:50:25          15.63   31085.00         19.4         8.47        7.60
07/99  8:50:37          15.67   30825.00         19.2        8.45         7.60
/07/99  8:51:02           15.73   31751.00         19.8        8.40         7.61
5/07/99  8:51:20          15.61   31504.00         19.7        8.44         7.60
5/07/99  8:51:37          15.66   30911.00         19.3        8.46         7.60
5/07/99  8:52:32          15.68   31142.00         19.4        8.42        7.59
5/07/99  8:52:44          15.67   31753.00         19.8        8.43         7.59
3/07/99  8:53:00          15.79   31426.00         19.6        8.41        7.59
5/07/99  8:53:29          15.52   31639.00         19.8        8.46         7.60
5/07/99  8:53:43          15.60   30722.00         19.1        8.47        7.60
3/07/99  8:53:57          15.76   31375.00         19.6        8.41        7.61
;/07/99  8:54:26         15.69   31184.00          19.4        8.49        7.59
;/07/99  8:54:54          15.74   31530.00         19.7        8.45        7.62
3/07/99  8:55:15         15.79   31495.00          19.7        8.46        7.62
5/07/99  8:55:34          15.77   30920.00         19.3        8.43        7.61
3/07/99  8:55:50         15.73   30775.00          19.2        8.35        7.61
3/07/99  8:56:12          15.78   31415.00         19.6        8.46        7.62
,/07/99  8:56:50         15.77   31417.00          19.6        8.50        7.62
3/07/99  8:57:04          15.74   30889.00         19.2        8.41        7.64
;/07/99  8:57:24         15.77   30536.00          19.0        8.26        7.64
)7/99  8:58:05          15.79   30911.00         19.3        8.46        7.63
,/07/99  8:58:27         15.70   30613.00         19.1         8.48        7.63
;/07/99  8:58:51         15.66   31616.00          19.7        8.43        7.63
/07/99  8:59:27          15.81   30839.00          19.2        8.42        7.62
,/07/99  9:00:02         15.70   30969.00          19.3        8.44        7.62
'/07/99  9:00:12         15.73   31597.00          19.7        8.41        7.61
/07/99  9:00:50          15.69   31028.00          19.3        8.41        7.62
/07/99  9:01:00          15.67   30924.00         19.3         8.43        7.62
/07/99  9:01:23          15.56   30990.00         19.3         8.41        7.62
/07/99  9:01:49          15.64   31736.00         19.8         8.37        7.63
/07/99  9:02:05          15.77   31688.00         19.8         8.35        7.62.
/07/99  9:02:26          15.86   30206.00         18.8         8.40        7.63
/07/99  9:03:12          15.60   30991.00         19.3         8.40        7.62
/07/99  9:03:29          15.94   30532.00         19.0         8.38        7.64
/07/99  9:03:42          16.05   31364.00         19.6         8.33        7.63
/07/99  9:04:09          16.03   31459.00         19.6         8.30        7.62
/07/99  9:04:19          16.05   30598.00         19.0         8.33        7.65
25



C:\PC6000\READINGS\205EE1 DAT.
6000 Time Series Report                                              Page 1
Date     Time           Temp      SpCond    Salinity        DO         pH
:/dd/yy hhh:mm:ss        C        uS/cm        PPT         mg/L
/08/99 14:05:15         15.82   30842.00        19.2        8.64       7.98
/08/99 14:05:46         15.83   31059.00        19.4        8.57       7.94
/08/99 14:06:06         15.82   31046.00        19.3        8.54       7.93
/08/99 14:06:32         15.75   31283.00        19.5        8.52       7.95
/08/99 14:06:49         15.65   31399.00        19.6        8.52       7.97
/nlp IQO   14 :rv7.I1-    = *7 " -  n   An 
/08/99     I            JLJ. I5.D n 31234.00    19.5       8O.47       7.95
/08/99 14:07:55         15.58   31696.00        19.8        8.47       7.90
/08/99 14:08:20         15.40   31892.00        19.9        8.48       7.91
/08/99 14:08:38         15.57   31811.00        19.9        8.43       7.93
/08/99 14:09:01         15.67   30825.00        19.2        8.44       7.93
/08/99 14:09:18         15.66   30871.00        19.2        8.43       7.93
/08/99 14:09:44         15.72   31201.00        19.5        8.41       7.91
/08/99 14:10:35         15.72   31647.00        19.8        8.39       7.92
/08/99 14:11:00         15.72   31156.00        19.4        8.40       7.92
18/99 14:11:16        15.78   30882.00         19.2       8.38        7.92
J8/99 14:11:35         15.80   31813.00        19.9       8.33        7.92
/08/99 14:11:53         15.64   31326.00        19.5        8.38       7.91
/08/99 14:12:11         15.73   31097.00        19.4        8.35       7.92
/08/99 14:12:48         15.86   30898.00        19.2        8.32       7.91
/08/99 14:13:06         15.84   31791.00        19.9        8.28       7.92
/08/99 14:13:24         15.93   31277.00        19.5        8.26       7.91
/08/99 14:13:45         15.74   31836.00        19.9        8.28       7.93
/08/99 14:14:00         15.75   30834.00        19.2        8.31       7.92
/08/99 14:14:13         15.89   31525.00        19.7       8.26        7.92
/08/99 14:14:38         15.89   30886.00        19.2       8.28        7.93
/08/99 14:14:53         15.89   31560.00        19.7       8.25        7.94
/08/99 14:15:12        15.96   31575.00         19.7       8.23        7.92
/08/99 14:15:39         15.98   30989.00        19.3       8.24        7.91
/08/99 14:15:59        15.87   30919.00         19.3       8.26        7.92
/08/99 14:16:11         15.86   31290.00        19.5       8.24        7.93
/08/99 14:16:27        16.02   31201.00         19.5       8.21        7.95
/08/99 14:16:41         15.93   30921.00        19.3       8.23        7.96
/08/99 14:16:56        15.91   30613.00         19.1       8.24        7.95
8/99 14:17:13         15.98   30998.00        19.3       8.21        7.93
.8/99 14:17:29         15.87   30706.00        19.1       8.25        7.94
'08/99 14:17:46        15.82   31794.00         19.9       8.22        7.93
'08/99 14:18:14        16.06   30849.00         19.2       8.19        7.93
'08/99 14:18:31        15.92   31001.00         19.3       8.21        7.92
'08/99 14:18:47        15.90   31693.00        19.8        8.18        7.91
'08/99 14:19:14        15.87   31158.00         19.4       8.19        7.92
'08/99 14:19:35        15.97   30700.00        19.1        8.17       7.93
'08/99 14:19:57        15.79   31199.00        19.5        8.18        7.94
'08/99 14:20:40        15.97   31757.00        19.8        8.11       7.91
'08/99 14:21: 02       16.01   31710.00        19.8        8.11       7.91
'08/99 14:21:24        1'6.04   30569.00       19.0        8.14       7.91
'08/99 14:22:19        1 6.39   30703.00       19.1        8.05       7.92
'B8/99 14:22:41        16.24   30704.00        19.1        8.08       7.93
'08/99 14:22:59        16.26   31593.00        19.7        8.04       7.92
08/99 14:23:23         16.47   31169.00        19.4        8.01       7.95
'08/99 14:23:39        16.43   30690.00        19.1        8.02       7.96
26



C: \PC6000\READINGS\205EE2 .DAT
6000 Time Series Report                                             Page 1
Date     Time          Temp      SpCond    Salinity       DO          pH
a/dd/yy hh:mmn:ss        C        uS/cm        PPT        mg/L
3/09/99  9:01:23        15.92   31034.00        19.3       9.10        7.83
3/09/99  9:01:48        15.88   30948.00        19.3       9.03        7.78
3/09/99  9:02:08        15.90   30959.00        19.3       8.98       7.76
3/09/99  9:02:38        15.77   31235.00        19.5       8.96        7.78
3/09/99  9:03:05        15.61   31388.00        19.6       8.96       7.81
I/09o/9   9             15.77   3    .          1
3/09/99  9:03:56        15.57   31786.00        19.9       8.89       7.74
3/09/99  9:04:12        15.44   32000.00        20.0       8.90       7.73
5/09/99  9:04:36        15.71   31769.00        19.8       8.82       7.73
3/09/99  9:05:11        15.66   30868.00        19.2       8.84       7.73
5/09/99  9:05:29        15.65   30863.00        19.2       8.83       7.73
3/09/99  9:05:50        15.68   31337.00        19.5       8.79       7.71
;/09/99  9:06:23        15.80   31529.00        19.7       8.74       7.72
3/09/99  9:06:48        15.66   31084.00        19.4       8.76       7.72
09/99  9:07:33        15.84   29574.00        18.3       8.76        7.74
,/09/99  9:08:07        15.79   31802.00        19.9       8.65       7.72
;/09/99  9:08:28        15.58   31235.00       19.5        8.73       7.65
i/09/99  9:08:45        15.68   31004.00        19.3       8.52       7.66
/09/99  9:C9:20         15.88   30693.00       19.1        8.68       7.70
;/09/99  9:09:36        15.88   31640.00        19.8       8.25       7.72
,/09/99  9:09:57        15.96   31047.00       19.4        8.68       7.73
/09/99  9:10:21         15.78   31919.00       19.9        8.66       7.75
+/09/99  9:10:39        15.85   30736.00       19.1        8.61       7.73
/09/99  9:10:59         15.96   31388.00       19.6        8.63       7.73
/09/99  9:11:24        15.96   30762.00        19.2       8.65        7.74
/09/99  9:11:39        15.95   31471.00        19.6       8.44        7.74
/09/99  9:12:05        16.00   31479.00        19.6       8.61        7.73
/09/99  9:12:40        16.03   30930.00        19.3       8.62        7.71
/09/99  9:13:01        15.90   30880.00        19.2       8.64        7.71
/09/99  9:13:28        15.95   31076.00        19.4       8.60        7.73
/09/99  9:13:49        16.08   30999.00        19.3       8.59        7.75
/09/99  9:14:10        15.87   30975.00        19.3       8.61        7.76
/09/99  9:14:27        15.85   30575.00        19.0       8.52       7.75
39/99  9:14:52        16.00   30979.00        19.3       8.62       7.74
/09/99  9:15:12        15.83   30786.00        19.2       8.61        7.74
/09/99  9:15:43        15.84   19275.00        11.5       9.02        7.73
/09/99  9:16:13        15.98   30844.00        19.2       8.63        7.73
/09/99  9:16:36        15.74   31054.00        19.4       8.60        7.72
/09/99  9:17:06        15.62   31801.00        19.9       8.65        7.70
/09/99  9:17:34        15.88   31147.00        19.4       8.61        7.71
/09/99  9:17:59        16.02   30502.00        19.0       8.51        7.73
/09/99  9:18:15        15.99   31140.00        19.4       8.34        7.75
/09/99  9:18:47        16.07   31682.00        19.8       8.48        7.73
/09/99  9:19:10        16.07   31634.00        19.8       8.48        7.72.
/09/99  9:19:33        16.07   30481.00        19.0       8.52        7.73
/09/99  9:20:17        16.36   30632.00        19.1       8.49        7.74
/09/99  9:20:29        16.31   30656.00        19.1       8.48        7.75
/09/99  9:20:40        16.26   31559.00        19.7       8.45        7.74
/09/99  9:20:56        16.40   31057.00        19.4       8.42       7.75
/09/99  9:21:10        16.39   30656.00        19.1       8.43        7.78
27



C:\PC6000\READINGS\205EE3.DAT
1 6000 Time Series Report                                                 Page 1
Date     Time           Temp        SpCond    Salinity        DO          pH
L/dd/yy hh:mm:ss          C         uS/cm        PPT         mg/L
/10/99  9:03:22          15.95   31071.00         19.4        8.87        7.65
/10/99  9:03:42          15.96   30992.00         19.3        8.84        7.65
/10/99  9:04:01          15.97   31142.00         19.4        8.82        7.66
/10/99  9:04:30          15.89   31405.00         19.6        8.80        7.68
/10/99  9:04:45          15.94   31532.00         19.7        8.77        7.71
/I10/QQ  9:05:06         15.86     31439.00       19.6        8 . 78      770
/10/99  9:05:37          15.81   32143.00         20.1        8.75        7.65
/10/99  9:05:57          15.76   32286.00         20.2        8.74        7.65
/10/99  9:06:25          15.90   31944.00         20.0        8.70        7.63
/10/99  9:07:49          15.77   31186.00         19.4        8.74        7.65
/10/99  9:08:15          15.74   31141.00         19.4        8.74        7.65
/10/99  9:08:35          15.84   31391.00         19.6        8.70        7.63
/10/99  9:09:09          15.80   31798.00         19.9        8.69        7.65
/10/99  9:09:24          15.79   31216.00         19.5        8.71        7.66
10/99  9:09:49         15.83   30753.00          19.1        8.71        7.67
/10/99  9:10:14          15.84   32045.00         20.0        8.69        7.65
/10/99  9:10:30          15.90   31356.00         19.6        8.69        7.63
/10/99  9:10:45          15.86   31157.00         19.4        8.63        7.65
/10/99  9:11:10          15.94   30839.00         19.2        8.70        7.66
/10/99  9:11:29          15.90   31940.00         20.0        8.65        7.67
/10/99  9:11:43          15.97   31193.00         19.5        8.65        7.66
/10/99  9:12:26          15.67   32392.00         20.3        8.67        7.65
/10/99  9:12:38          15.72   31011.00         19.3        8.71        7.65
/10/99  9:12:53          15.90   31568.00         19.7        8.65        7.65
/10/99  9:13:23          15.80   31017.00         19.3        8.68        7.65
/10/99  9:13:35         15.91   31653.00          19.8        8.65        7.68
/10/99  9:13:47         15.94   31693.00          19.8        8.64        7.66
/10/99  9:14:02         15.95   31191.00          19.4        8.66        7.65
/10/99  9:14:20         15.90   31112.00          19.4        8.68        7.65
/10/99  9:14:30         15.90   31206.00          19.5        8.68        7.66
/10/99  9:15:01         16.00   31138.00          19.4        8.70        7.69
/10/99  9:15:12         15.99   31173.00          19.4        8.66        7.70
/10/99  9:15:25         15.91   30741.00          19.1        8.69        7.69
'0/99  9:15:42         15.99   31187.00          19.4        8.69        7.67
10/99  9:16:03         15.82   31075.00          19.4        8.70        7.68
/10/99  9:16:14         15.80   31975.00          20.0        8.37        7.67
/10/99  9:17:07         15.85   31096.00          19.4        8.60        7.64
/10/99  9:17:16         15.95   31291.00          19.5        8.68        7.65
/10/99  9:17:31         15.74   31911.00          19.9        8.65        7.64
/10/99  9:17:57         15.86   31420.00          19.6        8.67        7.64
'10/99  9:18:08         15.98   30682.00         19.1         8.62        7.66
'10/99  9:18:18         16.00   31191.00          19.5        8.61        7.67
'10/99  9:18:44         15.90   32029.00         20.0        8.66        7.66
'10/99  9:18:54         15.98   31882.00          19.9        8.57        7.65.
'10/99  9:19:05         16.04   30718.00         19.1         8.57        7.66
'10/99  9:19:43         16.40   30675.00         19.1        8.60         7.68
'10/99  9:19:57         16.24   30949.00         19.3        8.61        7.69
'10/99  9:20:07         16.22   31692.00         19.8        8.58        7.67
'10/99  9:20:40         16.36   31193.00         19.5        8.53        7.70
'10/99  9:21:02         16.34   30872.00         19.2        8.56        7.72
28



C: \PC6000\READINGS\205EE4.DAT
6000 Time Series Report                                              Page 1
Date     Time          Temp       SpCond    Salinity       DO          pH
/dd/yy hh:mm:ss         C         US/cm        PPT        mg/L
/11/99 12:43:18        16.12   31921.00         20.0        8.75       7.75
/11/99 12:43:26        16.09   30934.00         19.3        8.77       7.73
/11/99 12:43:33        15.94   31061.00         19.4        8.77       7.72
/11/99 12:44:03        15.78   31442.00         19.6        8.10       7.68
/11/99 12:44:09        15.79   31503.00         19.7        8.68       7.70
/11/99  12441          15.7    31950            19.6       8.72        7.7 2
/11/99 12:44:53         15.76   32213.00        20.1        8.65       7.66
/11/99 12:44:59         15.78   32252.00        20.2        8.64       7.66
/11/99 12:45:05         15.70   32000.00        20.0        8.66       7.67
/11/99 12:45:37         15.65   31265.00        19.5        8.69       7.64
/11/99 12:45:43         15.68   31144.00        19.4        8.77       7.66
/11/99 12:45:51         15.68   31562.00        19.7        8.68       7.65
/11/99 12:46:34         15.66   31968.00        20.0        8.51       7.63
/11/99 12:46:40         15.71   31376.00        19.6        8.73       7.64
t1/99 12:46:45        15.71   31058.00         19.4       8.56        7.65
l1/99 12:47:14        15.72   32208.00         20.1        8.14       7.64
/11/99 12:47:21         15.79   31343.00        19.6        8.70       7.64
/11/99 12:47:29         15.82   31216.00        19.5        8.86       7.64
/11/99 12:43:00         15.64   31072.00        19.4        8.06       7.63
/11/99 12:48:06         15.79   32026.00        20.0        8.50       7.65
/11/99 12:48:12         15.83   31185.00        19.4        8.60       7.65
/11/99 12:48:38         15.81   32581.00        20.4        8.51       7.65
/11/99 12:48:44         15.76   31025.00        19.3        8.62       7.66
/11/99 12:48:50         15.79   31673.00        19.8        8.64       7.66
/11/99 12:49:17         15.63   31153.00        19.4        8.66       7.62
/11/99 12:49:23         15.76   31720.00        19.8        8.57       7.65
/11/99 12:49:31         15.82   31782.00        19.9        8.55       7.65
/11/99 12:50:00         15.70   31388.00        19.6        8.56       7.63
/11/99 12:50:06         15.82   31159.00        19.4        8.53       7.63
/11/99 12:50:13         15.79   31181.00        19.4        8-55       7.63
/11/99 12:50:40         15.64   31318.00        19.5        8.58       7.65
/11/99 12:50:46         15.77   31423.00        19.6        8.52       7.67
/11/99 12:50:51         15.60   30933-00        19.3        8.59       7.68
1/99 12:51:25        15.21   31794.00         19.9       8.70        7.64
, 1/99 12:51:30         15.44   31388.00        19.6       7.88        7.64
/11/99 12:51:37         15.45   32316.00        20.2        8.64       7.62
/11/99 12:52:10         15.58   31343.00        19.6       8.52        7.60
/11/99 12:52:16         15.82   31442.00        19.6        8.44       7.62
/11/99 12:52:22         15.80   32143.00        20.1        8.44       7.62
/11/99 12:52:54         15.21   31992.00        20.0        8.60       7.62
/11/99 12:52:58         15.51   30925.00        19.3       8.57        7.64
/11/99 12:53:04         15.73   31439.00        19.6       8.50        7.66
/11/99 12:53:27        15.55   32383.00         20.3       8.52        7.64
/11/99 12:53:32         15.71   32003.00        20.0       8.48        7.63,
/11/99 12:53:37        15.78   30827.00         19.2       8.52        7.63
/11/99 12:54:08         15.35   31639.00        19.8       8.64        7.61
/11/99 12:54:13        15.72   31440.00         19.6       7.93        7.63
/11/99 12:54:18        15.97   31865.00         19.9       8.54        7.64
/11/99 12:54:37        16.09   31464.00         19.6       8.39        7.61
/11/99 12:54:42        16.22   31106.00         19.4       8.56        7.66
29



C: \PC6000\READINGS\205EE6. DAT
- 6000 TiMe Series Report                                             Page 1
Date     Time          Temp      SpCond    Salini ty      DO          pH
/dd/yy hh:mm:ss         C        US/cm        PPT        mg/L
/12/99 11:11:1l        16.05   31400.00        19.6       8.99        7.20
/12/99 11:11:34        16.00   31446.00        19.6       8.92        7.51
/12/99 11:11:54        15.97   31589.00        19.7       8.89        7.64
/12/99 11:12:28        15.87   31853.00        19.9       8.87        7.84
/12/99 11:12:43        15.91   31854.00        19.9       8.87        7.88
/12/99 11:12:56        15.86   31926.00        20.0       8.84        7.90
'12/99 11:13:18        15.82   32568.00        20.4       8.78        7.86
'12/99 11:13:35        15.77   32840.00        20.6       8.76       7.87
'12/99 11:13:55        15.62   32730.00        20.5       8.76       7.89
'12/99 11:14:15        15.70   31695.00        1.9.8      8.75       7.89
'12/99 11:14:32        15.70   31596.00       19.7        8.74       7.89
'12/99 11:14:47        15.78   31893.00        19.9       8.70       7.88
'12/99 11:15:27       15.80   32340.00        20.2        8.66       7.89
'12/99 11:15:44        15.78   31806.00       19.9        8.67       7.92
'2/99 11:16:04        15.82   31418.00        19.6       8.65        7.92
.2/99 11:16:29       15.86   32547.00        20.4        8.58       7.90
12/99 11:16:46        15.88   31602.00        19.7       8.60        7.89
12/99 11:17:08        15.87   31653.00        19.8       8.59        7.91
12/99 11:17:39        15.99   31186.00        19.4       8.56        7.92
12/99 11:17:54        15.94   32412.00        20.3       8.52        7.93
12/99 11:18:18        16.03   31402.00        19.6       8.53        7.92
12/99 11:18:42        15.78   33237.00        20.9       8.51        7.91
12/99 11:19:04        15.90   31375.00        19.6       8.54        7.92
12/99 11:19:26        15.99   31965.00        20.0       8.48        7.90
12/99 11:20:08        15.95   31371.00        19.6       8.50        7.93
12/99 11:20:25        15.97   32041.00        20.0       8.45        7.94
12/99 11:20:44        15.97   32147.00        20.1       8.44        7.92
l2/99 11:21:05        16.00   31625.00        19.8       8.44       7.90
l2/99 11:21:20        15.95   31625.00        19.8       8.45       7.90
l2/99 11:21:36        15.93   31535.00        19.7       8.45       7.92
2/99 11:22:10        16.16   31327.00        19.5       8.38        7.96
-2/99 11:22:31        15.88   32301.00        20.2       8.40       7.96
.2/99 11:22:58        15.95   31340.00       19.6        8.39       7.94
^/99 11:23:22        16.03   31730.00        19.8       8.33        7.93
-/99 11:23:37       15.91   31894.00        19.9        8.35       7.92
.2/99 11:24:11       15.85   32605.00        20.4        8.32       7.91
2/99 11:24:48        16.15   31284.00        19.5       8.27        7.92
2/99 11:25:12        15.91   31950.00        20.0       8.28        7.92
2/99 11:25:34        15.72   32854.00        20.6       8.27        7.89
2/99 11:26:11        16.00   31925.00        20.0       8.21        7.93
2/99 11:26:38        16.03   30958.00        19.3       8.21        7.94
2/99 11:26:59        16.03   31695.00        19.8       8.17        7.94
2/99 11:27:31        16.12   32406.00        20.3       8.11        7.91
2/99 11:27:50        16.11   32295.00        20.2       8.11        7.89
2/99 11:28:15        16.09   31050.00        19.4       8.15        7.91
2/99 11:28:56        16.47   31071.00        19.4       8.04        7.92
2/99 11:29:10        16.37   31538.00        19.7       8.03       7.92
2/99 11:29:21        16.32   32038.00        20.0       8.03       7.92
2/99 11:29:48        16.41   31584.00        19.7       8.01       7.98
2/99 11:30:08        16.42   31434.00        19.6       8.00       7.99
30



C:\PC6000\READINGS\205EE-6D.DAT
6000 Time Series Report                                                Page 1
Date     Time           Temp       SpCond    Salinity        DO           pH
n/dd/yy hh:mm:ss          C         uS/cm        PPT         mg/L
5/13/99  9:48:51         15.95   31602.00         19.7        8.89        7.89
5/13/99  9:49:10         15.97   31274.00         19.5        8.83        7.89
3/13/99  9:49:34         15.96   31482.00         19.6        8.80        7.90
5/13/99  9:49:51         15.90   31689.00         19.8        8.79        7.92
5/13/99  9:50:07         15.95   31685.00         19.8        8.77        7.95
/1 -n /00               1 . 8         3171.      19.9        87 -n
3/13/99  9:51:08         15.86   32534.00         20.4        8.72        7.92
3/13/99  9:51:24         15.86   32751.00         20.5        8.69        7.92
i/13/99  9:51:38         15.73   32684.00         20.5        8.71        7.92
3/13/99  9:51:53         15.68   31698.00         19.8        8.76        7.93
i/13/99  9:52:06         15.74   31517.00         19.7        8.75        7.92
;/13/99  9:52:19         15.79   31871.00         19.9        8.73        7.92
,/13/99  9:52:41         15.77   32284.00         20.2        8.72        7.91
i/13/99  9:53:05         15.80   31769.00         19.8        8.73        7.95
13/99  9:53:21         15.80   31373.00         19.6        8.74        7.95
,13/99  9:53:57         15.77   32592.00          20.4       8.69         7.95
/13/99  9:54:07         15,89   31511.00         19.7        8.70         7.92
/13/99  9:54:23         15.93   31568.00          19.7       8.68         7.95
/13/99  9:54:41         15.97   31089.00          19.4       8.69         7.95
/13/99  9:54:54         15.97   32370.00          20.3       8.64         7.95
/13/99  9:55:06         15.96   31358.00         19.6        8.67         7.95
/13/99  9:55:38         15.80   33267.00          20.9       8.64         7.95
/13/99  9:55:52         15.83   31340.00          19.6       8.70         7.91
/13/99  9:56:09         15.97   31875.00          19.9       8.62         7.90
/13/99  9:56:55         15.91   31335.00         19.5        8.63         7.95
/13/99  9:57:15         15.93   31932.00          20.0       8.60         7.97
/13/99  9:57:31         15.99   31910.00         19.9        8.59         7.94
/13/99  9:57:54         16.01   31475.00          19.6       8.60         7.92
/13/99  9:58:08         16.00   31525.00         19.7        8.60        7.92
/13/99  9:58:22         15.95   31472.00         19.6        8.61         7.93
/13/99  9:58:36         16.00   31316.00         19.5        8.59         7.96
/13/99  9:58:49         16.05   32249.00          20.2       8.54        7.98
/13/99  9:59:10         15.92   31315.00         19.5        8.59        7.97
3/99  9:59:26         15.98   31707.00         19.8        8.56        7.95
,3/99  9:59:40         15.95   31901.00         19.9        8.55        7.95
/13/99 10:00:05         15.85   32604.00          20.4       8.54        7.93
/13/99 10:00:25         15.94   31360.00         19.6        8.54        7.93
/13/99 10:00:54         15.91   31920.00         19.9        8.52        7.93
/13/99 10:01:19         15.75   32916.00         20.6        8.50        7.90
/13/99 10:01:37         15.80   32090.00         20.1        8.48        7.93
/13/99 10:01:51         15.99   30934.00         19.3        8.46        7.95
/13/99 10:02:16        k16.01   31624.00         19.8        8.41        7.96
/13/99 10:02:27         K16.04   32446.00        20.3        8.38        7.94
/13/99 10:02:41        4.16.11   32229.00        20.2        8.36        7.93,
/13/99 10:03:01        4d6.14   30958.00         19.3        8.39        7.93
/13/99 10:03:47          16.11   31251.00        19.5        8.34        7.93
'13/99 10:04:01        *16.34   31571.00         19.7        8.28        7.95
/13/99 10:04:19        ti..16.36   31873.00      19.9        8.26        7.93
'13/99 10:04:41       i-16.36   31648.00         19.8        8.24        7.96
'13/99 10:04:57       -k16.42   31433.00         19.6        8.21        7.99
31



C: \PC6000\READINGS\205EE7.DAT
1 6000 Time Series Report                                               Page 1
Date     Time           Temp      SpCond    Salinity        DO          pH
a/dd/yy hh:mm:ss          C        US/cm        PPT         mg/L
5/14/99  8:43:02         15.90   31662.00        19.8        9.57        7.66
5/14/99  8:43:08         15.87   31389.00        19.6        9.63        7.65
5/14/99  8:43:13        15.85   31603.00         19.7        9.44        7.65
5/14/99  8:43:36         15.72   32049.00        20.0        8.72        7.64
5/14/99  8:43:42        15.71   31932.00         20.0        9.24        7.67
5!/14A /90 8:43:48       I. =9                   2 0A.1      9.25        7.70
-'/ ~I~~/  ~.'  Q * ') *t *0  L,.       VW J      Z.''    1.  -, '  'I* 
i/14/99  8:44:11        15.63   32834.00         20.6        8.81        7.66
5/14/99  8:44:17         15.61   33042.00        20.7        9.21        7.66
3/14/99  8:44:23        15.56   33093.00         20.8        9.14        7.67
5/14/99  8:44:47         15.36   32203.00        20.1        9.13        7.65
3/14/99  8:44:52        15.43   31916.00         19.9        9.27        7.67
5/14/99  8:44:58         15.50   32171.00        20.1        9.05        7.66
5/14/99  8:45:27        15.20   32931.00         20.6        9.09        7.64
5/14/99  8:45:33        15.37   32215.00         20.1        9.27        7.67
'14/99  8:45:38        15.49   31734.00         19.8       9.03        7.68
/14/99  8:46:05         15.41   33019.00         20.7        8.62        7.67
5/14/99  8:46:11        15.53   31882.00         19.9        8.76        7.66
5/14/99  8:46:17        15.66   31868.00         19.9        9.19        7.68
i/14/99  8:46:40        15.59   31491.00         19.7        8.35        7.66
5/14/99  8:46:45        15.67   32636.00         20.4        9.07        7.68
i/14/99  8:46:52        15.70   31611.00         19.7        9.05        7.68
5/14/99  8:47:14,       15.72   33626.00         21.1        8.48        7.65
3/14/99  8:47:19        15.64   31630.00         19.8        8.62       7.67
i/14/99  8:47:24        15.67   32194.00         20.1        8.95        7.68
5/14/99  8:47:51        15.52   31765.00         19.8        8.94       7.66
i/14/99  8:47:58        15.63   32213.00         20.1        9.09       7.69
3/14/99  8:48:04        15.71   32374.00         20.3        9.00       7.69
3/14/99  8:48:26        15.67   31902.00         19.9        8.87       7.65
3/14/99  8:48:32        15.73   31847.00         19.9        9.04       7.66
5/14/99  8:48:37        15.73   31706.00         19.8        8.79       7.66
3/14/99  8:49:03        15.60   31675.00         19.8        8.45       7.69
5/14/99  8:49:08        15.74   32643.00         20.4        8.96       7.70
i/14/99  8:49:14        15.71   31629.00         19.8        8.83       7.71
14/99  8:49:52         15.55   32201.00        20.1        8.78        7.68
,14/99  8:49:57         15.63   32353.00        20.2        8.71        7.68
5/14/99  8:50:03        15.61   32910.00         20.6        8.73       7.69
7/14/99  8:50:32        15.55   31721.00         19.8        8.24       7.67
5/14/99  8:50:36        15.68   32210.00         20.1        8.89       7.68
i/14/99  8:50:42        15.68   33202.00         20.8        8.90       7.67
i/14/99  8:51:06        15.39   32615.00         20.4        8.83       7.64
i/14/99  8:51:10        15.50   31376.00         19.6        8.24       7.66
3/14/99  8:51:15        15.66   31957.00         20.0        8.94       7.69
,/14/99  8:51:42        15.67   32800.00         20.6       8.36        7.66
,/14/99  8:51:46        15.75   32530.00         20.4       8.50        7.67
/14/99  8:51:51         15.81   31301.00         19.5       B.90        7.67
,/14/99  8:52:21        15.54   31832. 00        19.9       8.81        7.65
,/14/99  8:52:26        15.78   32108.00         20.1       7.99        7.68
/14/99  8:52:31         15.88   32261.00         20.2       8.84        7.68
/14/99  8:52:36         15.95   32077.00        20.1        8.75        7.68
l/14/99  8:52:41        16.01   31824.00         19.9       8.74        7.71
32



C:\PC6000\READINGS\205EE8.DAT
' 6000 Time Series Report                                               Page 1
Date     Time           Temp       SpCond    Salinity        DO          pH
n/dd/yy hh:mm:ss          C         uS/cm        PPT         mg/L
5/15/99 11:27:07         15.66   32144.00         20.1        8.84        7.67
5/15/99 11:28:47         15.65   31637.00         19.8        8.81        7.67
5/15/99 11:29:31         15.69   31858.00         19.9        8.77        7.68
5/15/99 11:29:58         15.61   32230.00         20.2        8.75        7.72
5/15/99 11:30:32         15.72   31923.00         19.9        8.72        7.75
5/15/99 11:31:10         15.62   32437.00         20.3        8.71        7.74
5/15/99 11:31:48         15.63   33042.00         20.7        8.69        7.71
5/15/99 11:32:17         15.57   33354.00         20.9        8.68        7.71
5/15/99 11:32:46         15.43   33465.00         21.0        8.68        7.72
5/15/99 11:33:30         15.55   32276.00         20.2        8.70        7.72
5/15/99 11:34:10         15.59   32003.00         20.0        8.70        7.71
5/15/99 11:34:55         15.72   32184.00         20.1        8.65        7.69
5/15/99 11:35:24         15.62   32813.00         20.6        8.63        7.70
5/15/99 11:35:46         15.59   32246.00         20.2        8.65        7.74
'15/99 11:36:25        15.72   31693.00         19.8        8.65        7.75
,/15/99 11:37:29         15.71   32954.00         20.7        8.59        7.72
5/15/99 11:38:22         15.78   31745.00         19.8        8.61        7.74
5/15/99 11:39:03         15.75   31979.00         20.0        8.64        7.72
5/15/99 11:40:26         15.82   31418.00         19.6        8.57        7.73
5/15/99 11:41:20         15.71   32897.00         20.6        8.53        7.72
5/15/99 11:42:10         15.95   31463.00         19.6        8.54       7.74
5/15/99 11:42:52         15.61   34230.00         21.5        8.51        7.72
5/15/99 11:43:34         15.76   31667.00         19.8        8.59       7.73
5/15/99 11:44:33         15.86   32216.00         20.2        8.61        7.71
5/15/99 11:45:19         15.83   31784.00         19.9        8.58       7.76
5/15/99 11:46:13         15.80   32310.00         20.2        8.55       7.75
5/15/99 11:47:16         15.89   32469.00         20.3        8.54       7.70
5/15/99 11:48:15         15.91   31832.00         19.9        8.55       7.70
5/15/99 11:48:51         15.74   32090.00         20.1        8.57       7.71
5/15/99 11:49:39         15.82   31780.00         19.9        8.44       7.68
3/15/99 11:50:36         15.98   31463.00         19.6        8.34       7.75
5/15/99 11:51:18         15.64   33115.00         20.8        8.45       7.76
5/15/99 11:53:24         15.81   31693.00         19.8        8.53       7.74
15/99 11:54:09         15.92   32065.00         20.0        8.49       7.72
,/15/99 11:54:46         15.63   32699.00         20.5       8.54        7.73
5/15/99 11:55:27         15.78   33047.00         20.7        8.49       7.70
5/15/99 11:56:33         16.05   31287.00         19.5       8.47        7.74
5/15/99 11:57:10         15.73   32533.00         20.4        8.50       7.73
3/15/99 11:57:43         15.57   33732.00        21.2        8.47        7.70
3/15/99 11:58:33         15.90   32351.00         20.2       8.45        7.73
3/15/99 11:59:18         15.92   31116.00        19.4        8.46        7.80
3/15/99 11:59:54         15.92   31377.00         19.6       8.46        7.77
3/15/99 12:00:50         15.96   32769.00        20.5        8.42        7.71
3/15/99 12:01:31         15.96   32528.00         20.4       8.44        7.70
;/15/99 12:02:07         15.97   31265.00        19.5        8.48        7.73
3/15/99 12:03:08         16.38   31329.00        19.5        8.38        7.76
,/15/99 12:03:44         16.08   32163.00        20.1        8.43        7.75
,/15/99 12:04:30         16.27   32208.00        20.1        8.38        7-75
)/15/99 12:05:10         16.34   32144.00        20.1        8.36        7.81
;/15/99 12:05:57         16.33   31907.00        19.9        8.37        7.81
33



C:\PC6000\READINGS\205EE9.DAT
r 6000 Time Series Report                                               Page 1
Date     Time           Temp       SpCond    Salinity        DO          pH
m/dd/yy hh: mm:ss         C         US/cm        PPT        mg/L
5/16/99 10:21:17         16.50   32194.00         20.1        8.86        7.74
5/16/99 10:11:22         15.92   31632.00         19.8        9.01        7.76
5/16/99 10:11:26         15.86   31767.00         19.8        9.01        7.75
5/16/99 10:11:50         15.97   32108.00         20.1        8.93        7.70
5/16/99 10:11:55         15.87   31890.00         19.9        8.94        7.72
5/1 6/99 10:12:.00       1.1 32365.0C0038.477
5/16/99 10:12:20         15.72   33102.00         20.8        8.92        7.70
5/16/99 10:12:25         15.70   33278.00         20.9        8.90        7.69
5/16/99 10:12:30         15.64   33641.00         21.1        8.90        7.70
5/16/99 10:12:57         15.48   32528.00         20.4        8.94        7.67
5/16/99 10:13:02         15.56   32058.00         20.0        8.94        7.68
5/16/99 10:13:07         15.58   32274.00         20.2        8.92        7.69
5/16/99 10:13:40         15.46   33059.00         20.7        8.93        7.64
5/16/99 10:13:45         15.53   32370.00         20.3        8.29        7.67
'16/99 10:13:50        15.56   31870.00         19.9        8.93        7.70
_/16/99 10:14:13         15.51   33178.00         20.8        8.80        7.70
5/16/99 10:14:19         15.59   31892.00         19.9        8.96        7.70
5/16/99 10:14:24         15.65   32075.00         20.1        8.87        7.70
5/16/99 10:14:46         15.54   31737.00         19.8        8.50        7.67
5/16/99 10:14:51         15.61   32913.00         20.6        8.64        7.68
5/16/99 10:14:57         15.66   31703.00         19.8        9.00        7.68
5/16/99 10:15:22         15.52   34415.00         21.7        8.21        7.66
5/16/99 10:15:27         15.51   32010.00         20.0        8.80        7.68
5/16/99 10:15:31         15.58   32426.00         20.3        8.95        7.69
5/16/99 10:15:50         15.71   31912.00         19.9        8.37        7.67
5/16/99 10:15:55         15.72   32304.00         20.2        8.76        7.69
5/16/99 10:15:59         15.74   32557.00         20.4        8.87        7.69
5/16/99 10:16:17         15.62   32154.00         20.1        8.85        7.66
5/16/99 10:16:21         15.67   32137.00         20.1       8.35        7.67
5/16/99 10:16:26         15.69   31870.00         19.9        8.91        7.67
5/16/99 10:16:46         15.57   32018.00         20.0       8.88        7.65
5/16/99 10:16:51         15.66   33128.00         20.8        8.57        7.69
5/16/99 10:16:56         15.66   31841.00         19.9       8.95        7.71
'16/99 10:17:26        15.62   32354.00         20.2        8.80        7.68
,16/99 10:17:30         15.68   32750.00         20.5        8.25        7.68
5/16/99 10:17:35         15.65   33214.00         20.8       8.91        7.69
5/16/99 10:17:55         15.55   31902.00         19.9       8.39        7.65
5/16/99 10:18:00         15.64   32546.00         20.4        8.72        7.67
5/16/99 10:18:05         15.65   33724.00         21.2       8.86        7.66
5/16/99 10:18:26         15.40   32948.00         20.7       8.86        7.64
5/16/99 10:18:30         15.53   31458.00         19.6       8.92        7.65
5/16/99 10:18:34         15.66   32114.00         20.1       8.84        7.68
3/16/99 10:18:56         15.64   33049.00         20.7       8.75        7.66
5/16/99 10:19:01         15.70   32672.00         20.5       8.21        7.66,
3/16/99 10:19:05         15.78   31449.00         19.6       8.90        7.66
5/16/99 10:19:44         15.38   32123.00         20.1       8.85        7.63
,/16/99 10:19:48         15.66   32606.00         20.4       8.17        7.66
3/16/99 10:19:53         15.83   32481.00         20.3       8.88        7.67
5/16/99 10:19:58         15.98   32508.00         20.4       8.73        7.68
3/16/99 10:20:02         16.06   32176.00         20.1       8.71        7.70
34



C:\PC6000\REkDINGS\205EE10.DAT
T 6000 Time Series Report                                                  Page 1
Date     Time            Temp       SpCond    Salinity        DO           pH
a/dd/yy hh:mm:ss          C         US/cm         PPT         mg/L
3/17/99  7:09:33         15.74   31511.00          19.7        9.58        7.63
,/17/99  7:09:39         15.73   31241.00          19.5        9.39        7.62
;/17/99  7:09:43         15.69   31609.00          19.7        9.27        7.62
,/17/99  7:09:48         15.65   32083.00          20.1        9.23        7.62
/17/99  7:09:53          15.63   31832.00          19.9        9.23        7.64
;/17/49  7:09:57        515.64   32275.00          20.2        9.18        7.66
/17/99  7:10:02          15.59   32892.00         20.6        9.17         7.66
/17/99  7:10:07          15.56   33180.00         20.8        9.14         7.65
/17/99  7:10:12          15.51   33651.00         21.1        9.13         7.66
/17/99  7:10:17          15.42   32377.00         20.3        9.19         7.66
/17/99  7:10:21          15.44   31984.00         20.0        9.18         7.67
/17/99  7:10:26          15.48   32118.00         20.1        9.16         7.67
/17/99  7:10:30          15.51   32736.00         20.5        9.12         7.65
/17/99  7:10:35          15.53   32168.00         20.1        9.12         7.67
'17/99  7:10:39         15.53   31708.00          19.8        9.14        7.68
217/99  7:10:44         15.51   32858.00         20.6        9.09         7.70
/17/99  7:10:49          15.54   31706.00         19.8        9.11         7.69
/17/99  7:10:53          15.59   31894.00         19.9        9.08         7.69
/17/99  7:11:00          15.59   31432.00         19.6        9.11         7.68
/17/99  7:11:05          15.61   32719.00         20.5        9.03         7.68
/17/99  7:11:09          15.63   31477.00         19.6        9.06         7.68
/17/99  7:11:15          15.67   34163.00         21.5        8.95         7.67
/17/99  7:11:20          15.61   31769.00         19.8        9.04         7.67
/17/99  7:11:24          15.62   32137.00         20.1        9.02         7.68
/17/99  7:11:29          15.65   31798.00         19.9        9.02        7.67
/17/99  7:11:33          15.66   32164.00         20.1        8.99        7.69
/17/99  7:11:38          15.67   32339.00         20.2        8.98        7.69
/17/99  7:11:43          15.68   31880.00         19.9        8.99        7.67
/17/99  7:11:48         15.70   31971.00          20.0        8.98        7.66
/17/99  7:11:53          15.68   31691.00         19.8        8.99        7.66
/17/99  7:11:58         15.68   31478.00          19.6        8.99        7.68
/17/99  7:12:02          15.72   33003.00         20.7        8.92        7.69
'17/99  7:12:07         15.65   31672.00          19.8        8.98        7.69
'7/99  7:12:12          15.63   32089.00         20.1        8.97        7.70
-7/99  7:12:16          15.65   32682.00         20.5        8.94        7.69
/17/99  7:12:20         15.61   33035.00          20.7        8.93        7.69
'17/99  7:12:40         15.33   31807.00          19.9        9.05        7.66
'17/99  7:12:45         15.47   32565.00          20.4        8.95        7.66
'17/99  7:12:50         15.53   33722.00          21.2        8.88        7.66
'17/99  7:12:54         15.51   32702.00          20.5        8.93        7.65
'17/99  7:12:59         15.57   31297.00          19.5        8.96        7.66
'17/99  7:13:03         15.65   31870.00          19.9        8.93        7.68
'17/99  7:13:08         15.70   32737.00          20.5        8.88        7.69
'17/99  7:13:12         15.74   32425.00          20.3        8.87        7.68
17/99  7:13:17          15.78   31213.00         19.5        8.90        7.66
17/99  7:13:23          15.80   31436.00         19.6        8.91        7.66
17/99  7:13:27          15.89   32272.00         20.2        8.83        7.67
17/99  7:13:32          15.90   32141.00         20.1        8.83        7.67
17/99  7:13:36          15.93   32332.00         20.2        8.82        7.68
17/99  7:13:41          15.95   32007.00         20.0        8.83        7.70
35



Aqua Survey, Inc.
Solid Phase Readings
ChnL: LYC.                  Test Star: D-z :             Paraetzr: -7cLl 4v 
Job' 3       99____f                                      Or       t.sn:      n
|Beaker                 2|    3   _4       5  | 6  | 7  |            9  I 10  INotes
2           ___ TI                   ___  I   I             -\ !    IcD 
f      3      An                                   t !   ,-2s- |  !   I*   __  1 Kr    1
t       4     >A3  1- .5 i 3 1        IEDslJ.6 b 152.l,t :+     i23.1t.J              4-   s3
~~~~ LZL 6t                               h I- ___  ____ ______
+  6    lID A ,,5  :/17A  AI1P2L il    r)           c -       Oi ( I  ______
* 7 ~i. 5-1         i     -Y' 3                               (t8 Z-2   -S2 '270 . 
* 8   j.5         _                       .              _ (           3
__9              __                       ND T                    I
S  l o    | g   z-6 S X 6 1 .E 3 D,       L 7   Z.02 7 8 i 1, 35 Os   f32
12
' 11     _ _   I___                     ___  __    j
15   5  _                        ___ _ == _=_ __  D_  _
14              o     lS||-Y1  7       LI ;12b/~t73.23 } 98
4 15   lifi0|      ]     j     T      |     ]0                        4. 
___ 150:XTD LXD7T M; j.j~i R//h; 1r  jJt.b |OL C_____P
18     .i6   __`____                                   4
17  95qR                               7 7I9b1?SXY 5SI jC|g       1       1 
200_ __                                                                    !
21  L13    I_ T_                             __ ____ !_ __ I_I__
22                            I _                              _     _       _!__!___
24    AIDE  I        I  I     I      I     !     I                          I_____
26          ___                           1{.__
27    __                             _  _  _   -     _  __
28          __.                          _ I            I 1          ___________I_
29 _   t!BJ __ t-                          r __                     [osLq '1
DatsS^\ef 5rf .........Bttia\ l{ oe .s,- r  em 



Aqua Survey, Inc.
Solid Phase Readings
Clic __        _              Test Start Date: ____W         Paraeter: /o#aJ       n
Job :_ :                                                     Orgnism: F.  2l       S   _ _
Beaker    0      1     2      3      4     5      6      7      8     9      10    Notes
30            I==                                      =5 
31     ;.43 
A, .                                                                1   L
..UJ          ___    ___    _ _                              ___.. . . . _ _-
33  __ =  =  =  =                              =     ===                     __
34        _ .                  _      _         ___D_3_
35     1.43          _                                 _       _____O_
36                 __ oF;_
37                                                                       L_8b
38                  ____ .                                               c.   i
39       .-                                                  -iS   
40      __                _            _                            _             ____
41                  _      _  .                                     _    13.b
42     0       ___                                           _                +
43                                                                        ? J
44  D                     __  _    __    __
45     1__ ___
46     ii-T _,f2
47   L. ._
48     jC07                                     _     _      _
49     at_                                    _                           I/.5
51
52
53
54
55
56
57-                               _ _    _ _   _ _    _ _    _ _
538
Datcaniiab             _=I
37



AQUA SURVEY, INC.
SOLID PH.ASE READINGS
ient: sX
Drgyanismn:   g  tqr16
L,vt H   f ahr<C9cOc              ~~~~DAvY
L)t   ~ lq    I                l    1     1    [               Dy1Day        ayI1o        Day 12 
Chams   O    _                 4           6    _     8    _     Fnal count    Final Count    Fina-I Col,,-
2   ;Z   AlZ   -Tf1        J               ,            l                              _  9 _
3                                                    pj   fi        I  J 1 tJ tt SDU /        / jP
8       DM    A-l L/  rJ AJ               tj  l'    t               (        
9~~~~~A jA                          tj C  l,JSe    j M 1        
9i     '1    /lV              T                   rJ      N     X                
1 2      dfo        r t    J 1           U     l    t      \                   7~ ,)Z<
13                                                                               C),Wir      ~      1/   ?,
. /  WQ f/   r    t   rbl    M     /   t    {J       itz;                        X 
14    F0/ _ir                                        Jg 2                        o
,, dI llg | /\ td fl fJr                                   JA t,j    N    -_)7 
o  !1\ t     k78   r J1   /V7/<
21 ;? -1"4  001\_ /\                                   t        4j               .oZ'
22Le   tlqS+7   1\ot}l/,T   t4  -zt12wj\bJ4+   +                              1K7 L)/'1i/
3 8



AQUA SURVEY, 2iC
SOLID PRkSE READINGS
.ient:    h
.ob
Organisa:          1     / c<;
IDAY
_______  fK7lI7 TI r_ I                     I~   [7V71 T__ I             __| __Day    _ 10   | Day 11     |    Day 12
Chamber    0                                                                           a3 4  5  6  y Day count Final Count
_________  L 1 1     L        1       L            _____ j~~    ~   ~ 9  a  on Final   Count            ~f
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~__ .__ ________  ________                                                 ~     u~
26                                                                                    1 K  tf i                        7 _ _ _ _ _ _ _
27                                                                                                        - 7 /J  y  I  r   __    1r
28                 4         j _                       J            _1
29  _i j )i r    .J
32    A_                 AAIpJ                        N' fJ  
33         0  L   A/  F                                                    I) TrD
,6~~~~~_ _ _    ___                                              __                            (I         _______  ; Z t
j9 ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      -    __ __ _ _ _______. 4       U    1                  i 
__     2rkA |t gd _                                   ? fJ U  ' rJ           I                         /G/
38      aD        A!                   _      f U                   Ni    _         il
44    _           N       4       J            ['U tLJ    ' i              __
3'7              __0    /, S                                ,
38                IV  Al                      N r0                                                      Z /V  f
___O_SJfX f    M ['J(JJ   de                                                ZJ                      __ _    _____>    e
39     _          N_Al             _                        IV N    1'-'    N                                           i3
___          D                          fLI&IL pi                     i     Al_                             __        _      _
_          ___Al        I                     -~~ j_                                         _



AQUA SURVEY, !,C.
LTtFRE A _>3OATORY R.C-E O =ORM
RECV24G LCG :  ________                 DA            99
SH1PT9G C4AR:       /21-ti              CARPR LO :- 'I
SPE CE3:   _________________                  N  NERf3R  sT=hPED:     1300
;STO,GC< SOURC=E] PE:               J              -            'C "g
SHM   RINVOICE#                         PACXE rS NA(E:      C
ASI ORDE. REF. DATE:       R3  ,                A  .  m=ALS:   CL)
AGE/CEARAC-ISTICS:       3- 
TAXONO&EC VEr:ICAflON LOG #:       -                DAT-E:_6 
RE C-TVINGrWA i 7  QUALlTY PkR_A _ TERS
D.O: _                TEMP:  /6' S  0         NHNO,N:    ___
SAL2NTYEARDNESS:      _     _ALK: _                            pH: 
WATR - CLEA.RJCLOUDY        cCONTA2:ER SIZEINUM{ER:    .  vj ( o4S,',3   I
. OF BLUE ICEfi:      3                 TYPE OF PACMG:      4  ' 
OBSERVATION/CONDION OF IPVESTOCX:            4   /-4/   (. / 2
-    -z V                                           /I' ..- C
s n   R  & g'\ Cl  ;0  ,  1/,  4t -r  /n,r,r   rt 
RECEVING TE. ICT.:          c3S SPERVISORS'S LTT.:  cI)
40



SUBJECT:  Aknimal collection Data Sheet (shipping)
SOLD TO: Aqua Survey Inc.               Chr-is Doyl e
499 Pt. Breeze Rd.           (908) 788-9700
-rlemington, NJ  08822
FedEx: 127098522
DATE OF SHIPMENT: 05-04-99
ANlMAL 1H1ISTORY
Species                            Age/Size          Number Shipped
Eohaustorius estuarius             3-5 wrTm          1300 T 10l
WATER QUALITY AT TIME OF SHIPMENT
Temrrverature  A1c -                -ardness
pH                                 Alkalinity
Salini tY     ;*0                  Cond'act iv i itv
D.O.                               Other:
PACK-AGED BY:  EC.                 DATE:
FIELD COLLECTION/CULTURE NOTES
Collected 05-03-99 from Yaquina Bay, Or.
Collection site salinity 5.0 ppt. Adjusted to 20.0 ppt.
Held at 15 C in aerated water.
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS
2L site sediment included.
P.O.# 0428CD
PLEASE RETURN ALL SHIPPING MATERIALS
If you have any questi'ons,
please call Erin Coffey at (541) 265-7225.
Thank You.
Form: 5S-IPPING
41



Fe&n. U]S &A Airbill  f!&Xrit28 0 8 7 S 4 2 5 1 7  4 tt0i O, 1, 0 Receipiel t's Copye
.~~ .                                  .    .                                                 -                   -L A -                                                     J
'tu                                                                    i_dL  futtv  0210ir  zmeX:fi*vdsl
FddExOvezrnigliltFreblXt   Ont         iEteIlylllt FXAx E'bss Stalvor roiolit
.Add,.,,        1 14   YAGUtINIA    BAY    P,                                                                                     1.1 kri thteuel)-y i,:1dulit Sea b.cl or detAid Jdsciatlonts .  ight ..lcoij
W   ExpTePsU Packagitig   E]  fed  akage  a    FedrKGdt i*
Data                                                                                                                    o,~~~~~~~~~~i''~~SttehpLett    Ela   x   El ,.x,Tube.no.
t=:aol ,..l. 1,kthlt-J
13Your IntafnalBilling nefarence Iiifornation                                                                                                                  ----_ to. Spcaladln  rt  'uh*"Wjl*hgzl
1, l _   -                                                                                                               L   thts Shipment Con 0 boo nno a; ntg O.lo.n lN ti,b.EO5l,
r1r'\                          ininnnnn~~~~~~~(~'4 I    255-7   ~~~~~         Li~Eledtil                                               Caiodctf0l
Nle        O                             AU              C  SC 1 ENE                                             -            Express           e     PaJtIDZ15OelIhd
AIIIO~~  ~i3S14    YAGUINA    I3AY    RD                                            tall tan detbv.~~~~y actiedola. Sc. had Ion detal.d da.nniptiaaa at tc'tatnt ossnic.,]ipien
NA  PaSiR?eninie FOdExAcRc5uictkNoL
flora th)s Ofnpm\eat eJti .lacipicste t  O     LjY   OX..L4  [jJ'       SIV
AhilOlD  -sf.dr   -so;lwon  qaiz\fwdr *ddl**shi                                                                              nnTo_Plttym    E Clg  nitcrant    aiv
City          |            t. IY ,'  O                          Stalte ____zip (1) 9;                              ,'   .   =:, -Tinota Pac agoro  TotapJateitj  Total fleoirlydJ ue    Totl1 Cliarycs
g j            EcFr I(lfl at tedtn ocedn check hierft                    For WEEKEN ll etivr ry cttecIt~!lrt ^,  ,                       I ah__________________   __U(J_____s
lo:   eas  Slttatak
g   otdWe    t    g  lo!dSthurdat rh  fDA u ,I-ti;-'l   D"Atvirurdry"Dwtirser;  t  Urnc gItn,bssve assdsonbO.O fata Urtr'upi.aS 0.d.tinin oti. aibp.              .
i                  =-  1i1LD'    11011;N f-dEl I., 6.1 pu4 f.dt1 dmC  1ePL OE =                                                     a1--3                                ,1 M
lu An win~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il5tbnn~  
oy                                      S~fO a L     t ate       zLipo              g      a   1rr_TtlP,lar                         oa iO7 1 t    T aa 3tj6            a       TllCtuil



AQUA SURVEY, N-C.
Taxoincric Verifcation Form
TAXONOMIvfC VERIFICATION LOG                   D ATE:__  DA1E:5/
SPECTPS:   _)E___ _______                  -I U.CuLlILOI E_ L____T
LTVESTOCK SOURCE: X2/ 5
JOBr:                          CLET:    .         7C
TAXONO  C KEYS/SOURCEs USEDllle ,               /$   /        i     'C
DISTINGIUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
vI-~
Ae(f4, J f 3-i- % A'3 5v -J/4 l 2- >x 
QUA SUR-VEY EVESTIGATOR(S) ___--
jPERVISORS lNTTIALS          C)
4 3



AQUA SURVEY, INC.
Culture Lab Acclimation Form
Acclimadzation                  []   No acclimatization required
[@(] Temperature acclimatization
tx] Water acclimatization
Job #:         5--2   5         Test Species:         7  g 4 ., S
Acclimatization Initial Parameters
Temprature:  /5   C    Salinity:      ,      //f  Type of Water:
Acclimadzation Target Parameters
Temperature: /15YCP   Salinity:        _           Type of Water: _.
Acclimatization Chamber Volume (liters):           k A
Acclmatzation Location:       C.// I-l ,4$.9           _rj// J/i
Acclimatization Water Type:      I/i'I' 5    e
Acclimatization WaterTemperature:         0O Q   (rl,// A,1K                      r 4
Acclimatizaton Commencement-Date/Time:             '9   /  /60/ f
Change Over Rate (Approximately mLIMinute):  /   /-,
Acclimatization Conclusion - Date/Time:  /z   t  /________
Technician Initials/Commencement:          0>
Technician Initials/Conclusion:            Ct)
Supervisor Initials:          c)
Remarks:
44



AQUA SURVEY, INC
CJLTURE LABORATORY
15 Day - General Species Status Log
Species:       -     .--                                                               Dates: ________
Receiving  /]  Culture    ] Log .,:        S     a )t          Initial Stock @:            /6017'
Test Job r:    ___ -______                     Client: _     C_ _                      Food Type:
[Date    j Dav Number | TrmwVO  1  NTH.NO.   J      vH           ardnc    | AlkainirY    Mornlitv  I    RemrksInidals
___        ___     __   __     _______       __   __     __   __   __                                          C.'-'/
.        ~         .0/0          ~     j    [~?/~g    /    ~j            ____                            c)rr
CO o                                                                  s  _ _7_  /   c - ,
4 
_   SI
10      T    _         _               _         _               _
_-            ::                                                                                  I _ ___  _ f ___
12                                                 
O B A 4 SArlas~~~~~~~~4 
F   g      g  J 13    _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _1_ _ _ __ _ _ _   _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _  
{ 1            _ __ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _I    _ _ _ _ __ _   _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _   _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _



