Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7014 LT
Loan Agreement
(Klaipeda Port Project)
between
KLAIPEDA STATE SEAPORT AUTHORITY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 3, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7014 LT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 3, 2000, between KLAIPEDA STATE SEAPORT 
AUTHORITY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Lithuania (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor 
and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Decree Concerning Management of Klaipeda State Seaport 
Authority” means the decree issued by the Prime Minister of Republic of 
Lithuania on August 6, 1993 (Decree No. 608) to change the status of the 
Borrower as an autonomous entity and the name of the Borrower, 
established by the Decree Concerning Establishment of Lithuania Seaport 
Authority on May 14, 1991 (Decree No. 192);
(b)
“DWT” means dead weight tons which is a unit used for ship 
carrying capacities;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (4) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“EMP” means Environmental Management Program prepared and 
adopted by the Borrower, acceptable to the Bank, on February 24, 2000;
(f)
“KSSA Development Program” means the program of future 
investments by the Borrower for the period between 2000 and 2010, as 
amended from time to time, and adopted by the Borrower on January 4, 
2000;
(g)
“Litas” means the lawful currency of Republic of Lithuania;
(h)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit of the Borrower, 
established on June 10, 1999;
(i)
“Project Account” means the account to be opened by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 7.01(a) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to thirty-five million three hundred sixty thousand dollars 
($35,360,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any 
premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to three hundred fifty-three thousand six hundred dollars 
($353,600). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided that, upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Article IV of 
the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable to 
semiannually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 in each year.  
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; 
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; 
and 
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate collar on said Variable 
Rate. 
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has 
requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PIU to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the PIU to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) and the records and 
accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of 
such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the 
audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the PIU to prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a 
Project Management Report for such period, which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project 
for the six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
(ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated 
operating cash flow plus paid interest of the Borrower for each fiscal 
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 2 times 
the estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on 
all debt of the Borrower including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the 
Borrower maturing by its terms 
more than one year after 
the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or 
other instrument providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of 
Page  6
payment on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date of the 
agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered 
into.
(iii)
The term “operating cash flow” means the sum of net 
income and depreciation.
(iv)
The term “debt service requirements” means the 
aggregate amount of repayments 
(including sinking fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, 
debt.
(v)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast 
prepared by the Borrower not 
earlier than twelve months 
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, 
which 
both the Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which the 
Bank has notified the Borrower of its acceptability, 
provided that no event 
has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected 
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or 
future operating results of the Borrower.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of these Sections it shall 
be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the 
Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange 
at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall earn for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year 
ending on December 31, 2000, an annual return of not less than 4% of the 
average value of the Borrower’s equity.
(b)
Before October 15 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and 
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal 
years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the 
Borrower’s net income 
for the fiscal year in question 
by one half of the sum of the equity value of 
the Borrower 
at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii)
The term “net income” means total revenues less total 
expenses.
(iii)
The term “total revenues” means revenues from all 
sources.
(iv)
The term “total expenses” means all expenses, 
including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, provision for 
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 2.5% per 
Page  7
annum of the average current gross value of the 
Borrower’s fixed assets in 
operation, and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average equity shall be calculated as one half of 
the sum of the value of 
the owner’s equity at the 
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as 
valued by the Borrower’s auditor.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound engineering, financial and engineering and environmental practices; 
and
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
notify the Bank of any changes or additions to projects in 
the KSSA Development Program;
(b) 
prior to initiating the corresponding work to any renewal 
expenditures in KSSA Development Program, furnish a report to the Bank, 
demonstrating that adequate financing therefor has been secured; and
(c) 
carry out an independent economic evaluation of the capacity 
expansion investments in the KSSA Development Program under terms of 
reference and methodology satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank an economic evaluation resulting in an economic rate of return in 
excess of 12% and a financial evaluation with a rate of return in excess 
of LIBOR rate plus 4%.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that Borrower will be able to perform its 
obligations under this Agreement; and
(b)
Decree Concerning Management of Klaipeda State Seaport 
Authority shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Project 
Account has been opened with an initial deposit in litas equivalent to 
$1,200,000.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Director of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Klaipeda State Seaport Authority
J. Janonio 24
LT – 5800, Klaipeda,
Republic of Lithuania
Fax:
370 6 499777  
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Vilnius, Republic of Lithuania, as of the day 
and year first above written.
KLAIPEDA STATE SEAPORT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Vytautas Dudenas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christopher Hall
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  9
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
  29,200,000
63%
(2)
Goods
     800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 65% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants' Services
  2,400,000
100%
(4)
Incremental Operating Costs
    300,000
100% through 
December 31, 2001;
75% through 
December 31, 2002;
and 50% thereafter
(5)
Fee
    353,600
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this 
Agreement
(6)
Premia for Interest Rate
0
Amount due
Caps and Interest Rate
under Section
Collars
2.09 (c) of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
  2,306,400
TOTAL
 35,360,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental 
expenses incurred by the PIU on account of project implementation, 
Page  10
management and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operations, 
travel, rent, communications, audit and salaries of additional staff 
excluding those of civil servants, incurred for the purpose of carrying 
out of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made under Category (1) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless and until the 
Borrower has furnished to the Bank the information establishing that the 
cofinancing and other contributions toward the project financing have 
been secured.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of 
the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited 
into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall 
be supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount 
of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the 
Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added 
to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
Page  11
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the long-term 
competitiveness of the port of Klaipeda in the Baltic Region, and to 
improve the environmental condition of the port area by preventing spills 
and improving waste reception facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A.
Investment Component: 
1.
Rehabilitation of the Existing Breakwaters:
Partial reconstruction, replacement of base materials, and repairs 
to existing breakwaters structures through provision of works.
2.
North and South Breakwater Extension:
Construction of extension of northern breakwater by 240m and 
extension of southern breakwater by 275m to reduce the exposure to the 
waves and wave disturbances in the port, through provision of works.
3.
Dredging of the Channel Entrance:
Widening the channel to 150m and deepening the channel by between 
14 and 14.5m, in order to allowing bigger ships up to 60,000 DWT to enter 
the port, through provision of works.
4.
Improvement in Mooring and Fendering Systems:
Page  12
Installation of mooring and fendering systems, consisting of 
pneumatic fenders, combined with steel mooring lines with nylon tails, at 
oil terminals’ and general cargo berths.
5.
Wave and Current Monitoring System:
Installation of wave and current recorders, to provide on-line data 
to secure safety under adverse weather conditions, at the entrance of the 
port.
6.
Port Ship Discharge Service:
(a)
Establishment of a permanent pollution monitoring unit in 
the Borrower with equipment such as booms, boats, skimmers and waste 
reception facility; and
(b)
Carrying out of a study to identify the steps required to 
achieve protection of the marine environment against illegal or 
accidental spills, and to finance necessary equipment and training, 
taking into account the survey by the International Maritime Organization 
in 1995.
7.
Environmental Mitigation Measures:
(a)
Selection of a site for depositing contaminated dredged 
materials; and
(b)
Building of a confined disposal facility for contaminated 
dredged material from the future dredging of the port.
Part B.
Technical Assistance:
1.
Contract and Lease Management:
Conducting of a study with regard to the relationship between 
harbor dues and land lease with a view to establishing the level of land 
lease rates and managing leasing contracts, including bidding procedures, 
and providing recommendations for transparent, fair and economically 
efficient management.
2.
Training of the Port Pilots:
Provision of training to pilots for safer and skillful navigation 
of ships, especially under adverse weather conditions, in order to reduce 
risks and loss of time.
3.
Privatization, Contracting Out-of-Port Services and Port Management 
Strengthening:
(a)
Preparation of a port privatization seminar to determine 
certain port services that could be privatized or outsourced;
(b)
Preparation of tender documents inviting bids for 
privatization;
(c)
Evaluation of the bids and negotiation of the contracts;
(d)
Improvement of competitiveness of the port of Klaipeda; and
(e)
Conducting of a study of the out-of-port services, with a 
view to covering steps necessary to the potential privatization of the 
Borrower in the future.
4.
Project Supervision:
Provision of on-site inspection  beginning June 1, 2000 until 
December 31, 2003.
Page  13
5.
Design of a Confined Disposal Facility and Monitoring Program:
Provision of design and monitoring program for a confined disposal 
facility for the future dredging of the port.
6.
Financial Audit of the Borrower and Project-related Accounts:
Financial audit of the Borrower and project accounts to be 
conducted annually for fiscal year 2000 through 2004 no later than six 
months after the end of each fiscal year. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 5 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 1 and November 1
Beginning November 1, 2005 through
November 1, 2016
4.17 %
On May 1, 2017
4.09 %
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn 
Page  14
and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  
withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Works and Goods
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for large or specialized goods 
and works contracts shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be 
Page  15
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above and the first 
contract for goods under the procedures referred to in Part C above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  16
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all measures necessary, 
including the close cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and 
other environmental institutions, for the carrying out of the EMP shall 
be taken in a timely manner; and (b) include adequate information on the 
carrying out of such measures in the progress reports referred to in 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 1, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by February 1, 2002, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall notify the Bank concerning any changes in 
legislation or decisions affecting its taxes payable by the Borrower or 
Page  17
accounting applicable thereto; and
(b)
If, at any time during the implementation of the Project, 
any legislation or decisions shall have been adopted whereby the Borrower 
is required to declare a distribution of dividends or pay any tax on its 
revenue earned, the Borrower shall carry out, by an independent auditor 
acceptable to the Bank, an evaluation of port assets, and shall take all 
measures necessary to effect a restatement in, or adjustment to, the 
accounts and records of the Borrower in conformity with the results of 
the evaluation, including, inter alia, measures to reflect in the 
accounts and balance sheet for the following year any necessary changes 
consequent upon the adjustments in the value of these assets.
