                             Document of
                          The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR000052




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IBRD-70140)

                                ON A

                    LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF

                         US$35.36 MILLION

                                  TO

                             LITHUANIA

                                FOR A

                     KLAIPEDA PORT PROJECT

                            June 24, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
South Central Europe and Baltics Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective May 4, 2009)

                                  Currency Unit = Litas
                                    1.00 = US$ 0.386
                                   US$ 1.00 = 2.599

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 ­ December 31


                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



CAS      Country Assistance Strategy               KSSA      Klaipeda State Seaport Authority
CDF      Confined Disposal Facility                LISCO     Lithuanian Shipping Company
CEEC     Central and Eastern European Countries    LR        Lithuanian Railways
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent States        LRA       Lithuanian Road Administration
CMEA     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance    MOE       Ministry of Energy
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction & Dev.   MOT       Ministry of Transport
EIB      European Investment Bank                  MT        Million Tons
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return          NPV       Net Present Value
FMS      Financial Management System               OED       Operations Evaluation Department
FSU      Former Soviet Union                       PHRD      Policy and Human Resource Development
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                    PIU       Project Implementation Unit
GPN      General Procurement Notice                SA        Special Account
IAS      International Accounting Standards        SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
ICB      International Competitive Bidding         SOE       Statement of Expenditure
ICR      Implementation Completion Report          SPN       Special Procurement Notice
IMO      International Maritime Organization       TEU       Twenty Foot Equivalent Units
KLASCO   Klaipeda Stevedoring Company




                    Vice President:          Shigeo Katsu
                    Country Director:        Theodore Ahlers (Acting)
                    Sector Manager:          Henry G. R. Kerali
                    Project Team Leader:     Henry G. R. Kerali
                    ICR Team Leader:         Ross Pavis
                                             LITHUANIA
                                       KLAIPEDA PORT PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 14
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 15
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 16
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 20
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 22
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 23
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 24
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 27
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
  MAP
A. Basic Information
Country:                Lithuania               Project Name:             Klaipeda Port Project
Project ID:             P035776                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-70140,TF-21584
ICR Date:               06/24/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TRANSPORT
Original Total
                        USD 35.4M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 35.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Klaipeda State Seaport Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/23/1997    Effectiveness:                               10/24/2000
Appraisal:             11/30/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/11/2000    Mid-term Review:                             07/19/2002
                                     Closing:                   09/30/2004        12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                      Quality at Entry
                           No                                           None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):


                                                i
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Ports, waterways and shipping                                     100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development               50                  50
Pollution management and environmental health                        25                  25
Water resource management                                            25                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                         Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Theodore O. Ahlers                   Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:            Motoo Konishi                        Eva Molnar
Project Team Leader:       Henry G. R. Kerali                   Pedro N. Taborga
ICR Team Leader:           Ross S. Pavis
ICR Primary Author:        Michel Luc Donner
                           Ross S. Pavis


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The main objective of the project is to strengthen the long-term competitiveness of the
Port of Klaipeda in the Baltic Region. The project's second objective is to improve
environmental conditions by preventing spills, improving waste reception facilities, and
providing necessary disposal facilities and continuous monitoring of environmental
conditions at the port.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target        Formally     Actual Value
                                                Values (from           Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval             Target      Completion or
                                                documents)             Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Volume of oil products
Value
quantitative or   (#000 tons): 459            2,000                              9,360
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/15/1999                  12/31/2002                         12/31/2007
Comments
                  Target for 2002 was 2 million tons; actual2.7 million. Since then, volume more
(incl. %
                  than tripled to 9.4 million implying average growth of 23% per year.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Volume of dry fertilizers
Value
(quantitative     (#000 tons): 1,759          4,085                              7,213
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/15/1999               12/31/2002                          12/31/2007
Comments          Target for 2002 was 4.1 million tons; actual was 2.35 million (60% short).
(incl. %          However, since then the volume has nearly tripled to 7.2 million, implying
achievement)      average growth of 21%.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2000             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/28/2000             Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory                  0.35
  3     06/22/2001             Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory                  3.85
  4     11/05/2001             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    10.26
  5     03/21/2002             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    15.46
  6     08/14/2002             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    16.63
  7     05/06/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    20.98
  8     10/07/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    23.12
  9     06/04/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    24.17
 10     10/28/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    26.83
 11     05/04/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    27.53
 12     10/26/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    29.70


                                                  iii
 13    03/31/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory          29.70
 14    11/21/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory          29.70
 15    05/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory   29.70
 16    05/22/2008   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory   29.96
 17    12/04/2008   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory   35.31


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          iv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
With an area of 65,200 square kilometers, Lithuania is the largest and southernmost of the Baltic
countries. It lies on the eastern shore of the Baltic Sea and borders with Latvia in the north,
Belarus in the east, and Poland and Russia's Kaliningrad region in the south. Since the time of
Lithuania's independence in March 1990, when an unfavorable economic environment with
declining output and deteriorating terms of trade imposed significant hardships on the
population, market-oriented reforms remained consistently in place, which resulted in
macroeconomic stabilization and transition towards a market economy. Lithuania adopted
policies such as monetary and budgetary discipline, currency reform, decreasing energy
subsidies, privatization, social assistance reform and restructuring of the financial sector. Gross
Domestic Product per capita had grown from US$1,138 in 1994 to an estimated US$2,832 per
capita in 1998. While longer-term fundamentals remained sound, Lithuania's short-term
prospects were fundamentally altered by the Russian financial crisis in 1998. GDP growth fell to
4.7 percent for 1998 and growth was estimated at zero percent for 1999. Fiscal outcomes
deteriorated, with the consolidated fiscal deficit rebounding to 5.9 percent of GDP for 1998, and
around 8 percent for 1999.

In 1997, the country's exports and imports were equally shared by the European Union, the
Former Soviet Union (FSU) and Central and Eastern European Countries (CEEC). Main trading
partners were in order of importance Russia, Germany, United Kingdom and Ukraine. Main
exports consisted of foodstuffs and agricultural products, textiles, chemicals and fuels. Main
imports consisted of machinery, oil and manufactured goods. The 1998 crisis in Russia exposed
Lithuania's dependence on its external environment, given its small size, limited natural resource
base and high trade intensity. External trade increased from USD1.3 billion in 1992 and peaked
at USD10 billion in 1998, with Russia being the main trading partner, although trade with the EU
had become greater. It was becoming increasingly clear that diversification of trade and
production, and continued integration with the EU would remain important.

Transport Sector and the Port of Klaipeda. Due to its geographic location, in 2000 freight transit
played a key role in the economy of the country. Freight shipments between Russia, the CIS, and
the West were the core of the transit industry in Lithuania. The Port of Klaipeda, the country's
only major seaport, was the hub for this industry.

The Port of Klaipeda is located along the east bank of the river connecting the Kursiu Lagoon
with the Baltic Sea. All three Baltic countries, in addition to Russia, are natural competitors for
East-West cargo shipment; however the Port of Klaipeda, at the time of project preparation, had
several advantages. The Port of Klaipeda is year round ice free, while Riga, Tallinn and St
Petersburg ports need icebreakers to guarantee access during winter. Compared to other Baltic
ports, the Port of Klaipeda had the best hinterland road with a four-lane European standard
expressway to Vilnius and rail connection to the East and Moscow. Even though most Baltic
ports were operating below capacity, the Port of Klaipeda had demonstrated its competitiveness
by having a 16 percent increase in traffic in 1996 followed by an 8 percent increase in 1997. A
survey of logistic costs in the region indicated that logistic costs in Lithuania were the lowest in



                                                 1
the region. Finally, transport through Klaipeda also offered a faster route to Russia from the
West than land transport through Poland, since it avoided the rail transshipment before entering
into Poland and bottlenecks at border crossings. Despite these advantages, however, the port
needed to improve its deteriorating infrastructure to remain competitive in the future.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The main objective of the project is to strengthen the long-term competitiveness of the Port of
Klaipeda in the Baltic Region. The project's second objective is to improve environmental
conditions by preventing spills, improving waste reception facilities, and providing necessary
disposal facilities and continuous monitoring of environmental conditions at the port.

The indicators were agreed to in the Minutes of Negotiation and tracked three main areas:
competitiveness, institutional strengthening, and environment.1

Competitiveness: (i) volume of oil products; (ii) volume of dry fertilizers; (iii)
generated/diverted traffic; (iv) voyage cost savings; (v) cash flow from operations; (vi) return on
net assets; and (vii) debt service coverage.
Institutional Strengthening: (i) financial return on investments; (ii) percentage of new capacity
investments with economic/financial evaluation; (iii) land lease rate; and (iv) number of
employees.
Environment: (i) safely disposed dredging material; (ii) number of vessel accidents: (iii)
number of days of port closure due to wave disturbances; and (iv)wind speed linking to
navigation suspensions.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
NA

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
By increasing the overall competiveness of Klaipeda Port and improving its safety and the
environment,2 the project broadly benefitted the population of the port city through the creation
of jobs and increasing income. More specifically, beneficiaries included: (i) shippers, who had
enhanced safety, a reduction in transport costs, and a reduction in the time the port was closed
due to inclement weather conditions; (ii) importers and exporters; (iii) maritime operators; and
(iv) the municipality, through increased economic revenues linked to greater transit traffic.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Rehabilitation of the Existing Breakwaters (US$5.4 million). The existing channel entrance to
the port is protected by two breakwaters. The northern breakwater was about 190 m long, and the
southern breakwater about 880 m long. The breakwaters were built in the 19th century, and in spite

1
    The full set of indicators is reviewed in Annex 3.

2
  Though a containment facility was not built, other project activities such as improved safety and reduction of oil
spills contributed to overall improvements.



                                                          2
of regular maintenance, required major rehabilitation. Detailed field investigations were carried out
to determine the exact nature and specifications of the rehabilitation required.
North and South Breakwater Extension (US$16.4 million). The breakwaters were configured
such that the Oil Terminal (Naftos Terminalas) and the former State Commercial Port operator
(KLASCO) were exposed to the north-western and western waves, with insignificant reduction in
wave action inside the port. This resulted in considerable loss in berth utilization from down-time in
cargo-handling operations. In bad weather conditions, excessive penetration of waves into the port
from the north-west and the west complicated ship maneuvers in and out of the port and due to these
disturbances the port was losing, on average, over 40 days per year of operations. An extension by
240 m of the northern breakwater and by 275 m of the southern breakwater addressed this problem.
In addition, the extension also reduced the distance between the two breakwater heads, thus limiting
the wave energy entering the port, and effectively reducing wave disturbances in the port.
Dredging of the Channel Entrance (US$19.0 million). Reconfiguring the channel entrance
allowed bigger ships to use the port and improve safety during in/out maneuvers. The existing
channel entrance had limited capacity; even under normal weather conditions, the maximum size of
ships that could be admitted to the oil terminal could not exceed 28,000 DWT. The channel passed
very close to the oil terminal, which required specific ship maneuvers to avoid hitting the oil berths.
To improve this situation, the channel was widened to 120 m and deepened to 14 m, allowing ships
of up to 60,000 DWT to enter the port. The extensions of both northern and southern breakwaters
provided additional protection of the channel. Dredging and disposal of dredged material methods
followed the provisions of the London Dumping Convention and international agreements for
protection of the Baltic Sea (Helsinki, 1992, and Gdansk, 1993).
Improvements in Mooring/Fenders Systems (US$2.0 million). Ships at berth were exposed to
longitudinal motions induced by specific wave spectra. This phenomenon occasionally caused
mooring lines to break, endangering both ships and berths, and forcing ships to leave the berths
without delay, resulting in loss of time in cargo-handling operations. To resolve this situation,
specifically designed mooring/fenders were to be installed, mainly consisting of pneumatic fenders,
combined with steel mooring lines with nylon tails. This system of mooring/fenders was to be
installed at Naftos Terminalas' and KLASCO's berths.
Wave/Current Monitoring System (US$1.0 million). Wave/current recorders were to be installed
at the entrance of the port to assist pilots. Online data would provide necessary information to pilots
to make rational decisions during maneuvers and to extend the navigation period under adverse
weather conditions without exposing the ships to unwarranted risks. Safety of in-and-out maneuvers
was to be increased significantly as those tools became available to the pilots.
Port/Ship Discharge Service Equipment (US$1.8 million). The dumping of ship wastes in the
Klaipeda port or in its environmentally sensitive approaches was not systematically monitored. Any
such pollution would be critical for the fish that hatched in the Kursiu Lagoon and migrations to and
from the Baltic. Preventive and mitigation measures were needed to control the situation. These
measures would consist of establishing a permanent pollution monitoring unit at KSSA which
would be equipped with booms, boats, skimmers, and a waste reception facility.
Environmental Mitigation Measures (US$6.1 million). Mitigation measures would limit
environmental impacts of the proposed project as well as those derived from the development
program of the Port. Under this component a site for depositing contaminated dredged materials



                                                  3
was to be selected and a confined disposal facility (CDF) built for contaminated dredged material
from the future deepening of the Port.
Contract/Lease Management (US$0.2 million). Studies to estimate the appropriate level of
land lease rates to avoid cross subsidies between harbor dues and land leases. The new land lease
rates would enable an efficient use of land available around Klaipeda Port. The study also was to
review leasing contracts management including bidding procedures and to seek improvements
towards a more transparent, fair and economically efficient management.
Training of the Port Pilots (US$0.5 million). Changes in channel entrance would affect in-and-out
maneuvers which required training of port pilots to perform under the new navigation conditions on
a simulation model. Pilots would acquire the necessary training for a safer and more skillful
navigation of ships, especially under adverse weather conditions, thus reducing ship waiting time.
Privatization/Contracting out of Port Services and Port Management Strengthening. (US$1.0
million). Various port services provided by KSSA such as piloting, infrastructure maintenance, or
environment protection would benefit from being privatized or contracted out. This technical
services contract would include: (i) the preparation of a port privatization seminar and determination
of port services that could be privatized or contracted out, (ii) the preparation of tender documents
inviting bids for privatization; (iii) assistance to evaluate the bids and negotiate the contracts; and
(iv) services to improve the international competitiveness of the port of Klaipeda. It would help
KSSA to further dissociate itself from port services and assume a landlord status while retaining
regulatory and control functions over the private sector operators. The study would also cover steps
necessary for the potential privatization of KSSA at a later stage.
Project Supervision, Environmental Mitigation and Procurement Assistance (US$1.9 million).
Implementation of the environmental mitigation program, supervision of construction and civil
works under the project, and review of regulations and penalties related to fisheries protection at
marine construction sites.

1.6 Revised Components
The component for Port/Ship Discharge Service Equipment (US$1.8 million) was dropped from the
project as the Government received grants from other donors for projects which encompassed
activities to be funded under this component: Danish funding supported a port waste management
plan which included monitoring and the collection of ship waste; Lithuania, Finland and Denmark
financed a program for equipment for Klaipeda to manage oil spills. This had little effect on the
Bank`s project financing as the majority for this component was to be non-Bank financed (NBF).
The US$300,000 that was to be funded by the Bank was reallocated to dredging activities.

1.7 Other significant changes
The project was extended twice, largely in order to facilitate the building of the confined disposal
facility for dredged materials. Negotiations among a wide range of political stakeholders took
place over several years. Conditional assurances that the construction would take place were
given at different intervals, but were ultimately unsuccessful during the life of the project.




                                                  4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Bank has had long experience in port projects and the project preparation team utilized this
in the project's design. In particular, lessons compiled by OED stressed that precipitate
preparation often leads to project failure; that good geo-technical and hydrological analysis is
essential; that a thorough knowledge of port operations must be complemented by strong
borrower commitment; and that strong technical assistance on procurement issues and
supervision of civil works problems are essential to ensure the success of project
implementation.

Preparation started early by testing various construction alternatives and was completed with a
thorough engineering study of the selected solution, including ship navigation simulations by
port pilots under the modified port entrance conditions. Significant expert assistance was
provided by port and shipping specialists in the course of preparation. Implementation and
supervision functions were established, and consultants assisted and trained the project
implementation unit (PIU) staff to handle procurement issues and necessary financial
management and accounting systems. A special focus on environmental protection aspects of the
project was central to the project preparation effort.

For analysis purposes, the project can be split in 2 areas:

   ·   Rehabilitation and improvement of navigability, navigational safety and protection of
       port installations and operations from recurring heavy weather conditions. Here, the
       impact on competitiveness of restoring the decaying navigation support infrastructure,
       and further improving it, was clearly identified; and

   ·   Specific environmental preventive and mitigation measures. The idea that improving
       maritime access and port installations safety would contribute decisively to the
       environmental protection of the area was adequately captured by the team at the onset of
       the project.

The dual nature of the overall objective of the project was translated into a well balanced
combination of mutually reinforcing components that provided a variety of specific solutions to
the issues at hand.

2.2 Implementation
Key factors during implementation

Confined disposal facility (CDF). At the time of the closing of the loan on December 31, 2008,
all components had been successfully completed, except the CDF. The initial date of completion
had been set at September 30, 2004. As noted above, however, there were two two-year
extensions: the first to September 30th 2006; the second to December 31st 2008. In both cases, the
extensions were related to delays incurred by the construction of the CDF which was hampered




                                                  5
by such issues as changing site selections, related property rights, approvals needed from several
government agencies, and decisions on appropriate technical methods to be implemented.

The material removed under the project during the dredging and reconfiguration of the entrance
channel, and the additional dredging carried out in the center of the port, were closely monitored
for safety by external specialized firms (BCEOM, then BLG). Almost all of the dredged
material was clean and was used in the surrounding areas for beach replenishment. A small
amount of the material contained low level contaminants which, according to international
standards and regulations, was within the range approved for disposal in one of the designated
deep open-water disposal sites in the Klaipeda coastal zone,

A final consensus among the Lithuanian authorities as to where, when and how the CDF will be
built and financed has not yet been reached; however, KSSA has committed in writing to the
Bank that it will construct the CDF with its own resources, and has submitted an implementation
timetable foreseeing the completion of the CDF by end 2010. The process is at the
feasibility/EIA level. The facility will conform to EU environmental regulations. KSSA has also
given assurances to the Bank that no dredging of contaminated soil will take place until the CDF
is operational.

It is worth noting that this component suffered several difficulties and drawbacks of the same
nature as a similar project component in the Sczeczin-Swinoujcie port project in Poland during
the same period of time. The lessons to be learned from these situations will be addressed in
section 6.

The breakwater rehabilitation and extension, dredging and wreck-removal components were
satisfactorily completed, in spite of various delays and extensions due to periods of extreme
weather conditions, unexpected condition of the soil in some places (including the need to
dispose of an unexploded bomb), and fire on board the floating crane initially assigned to carry
out the wreck-removal. Considering the magnitude of the tasks involved, these types of incidents
are not uncommon and can, in some respects, be expected to occur. In each case, KSSA's
assessment of the circumstances, causes, and solutions were endorsed by the concerned
engineer/technical supervisors, and the Bank team carefully followed up.

The wave/current monitoring system, procured in 2005, included a warranty through the end of
2006 (extended six months). During the summer of 2008, two monitoring stations were removed
from the water to accommodate channel dredging and, subsequently, stopped functioning.
KSSA is in discussions with the vendor on whether or not to repair the system or replace the
equipment with a newer technology, which changes frequently.

The training of the port pilots was conducted successfully and was considered very satisfactory
by KSSA. Training will be continued after completion of the Bank-funded cycle using KSSA's
own resources, with the same vendor, including the yearly updating of the port access simulation
model.




                                                6
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
An appropriate set of indicators for this type of port project were identified during the design
phase and were well utilized to measure progress on all major project activities. Sufficient
measures were put in place to ensure regular and accurate collection of data, which was carried
out by KSSA through its Project Implementation Unit. Updated indicators were incorporated
into all project reports as required. Collected data ­ especially with regard to volume of oil
products and fertilizers and environmental indicators, such as safely disposed dredging materials
­ was regularly used to guide decision making on related project activities.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
KSSA retained a German consulting company to supervise the entrance channel dredging and
shipwreck removal works, and the short-term environmental monitoring, which also included
sub-contracting to local institutes to monitor fish migration, sediment sampling, and slope
stability.

During preparation, erosion of beaches and sand dunes was a concern. Measures were designed
and put in place to continually compensate for ongoing erosion by disposing of clean dredging
masses on the affected beaches. After completion of the breakwaters and initial dredging works,
UAB "Geoprojektas" prepared a final report which concluded that there had been no significant
negative impacts due to the works in the port.

All fiduciary procedures were carried out according to agreements and guidelines. Financial
reports were received on a regular basis and audits were carried out as required. Safeguards
compliance, financial management and procurement were consistently rated satisfactory.

Issues relating to the CDF are described above.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Considering the increased competition to be expected for hinterland cargoes in the Baltic Sea, if
there was appropriate interest, it would be beneficial to continue to support KSSA and the
Lithuanian Government in exploring the requirements, needs and ways and means to develop
              3
intermodalism between the port and its inland customers (e.g., Belarus and Russian clients). The
good business atmosphere that surrounds the Klaipeda port has already allowed the emergence of
a reasonably prosperous Klaipeda Free Economic Zone.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives
At the time of the project's preparation a survey in the region indicated that logistic costs in
Lithuania were the lowest in the region. Transport through Klaipeda offered a faster route to
Russia from the West than land transport through Poland. Compared to other Baltic ports, the
Port of Klaipeda had the best hinterland road with a four-lane European standard expressway to

3
  A system of transport that provides the seamless movement of cargo by using two or more different modes of
transport like ships, trains, river-barges, trucks or planes, in a single journey.



                                                        7
Vilnius and rail connection to the East and Moscow. Despite this favorable competitive position,
however, the port had an urgent need to improve its deteriorated infrastructure if it was to remain
competitive in the future. The components of the project were well designed to address this
issue ­ not only ensuring continued competitiveness, but also addressing the increasingly
important issues of safety and environmental protection. The components were designed as an
intricate set of varied but complementary and mutually reinforcing elements that ended up
contributing to more than one objective. For example, the rehabilitation, redesign and
improvement of the port access directly contributed to both safety and competitiveness, and by
preventing navigational incidents (conducive to oil spills), also to environmental protection.

It can be said that the design of the project amply and astutely covered the objectives and only
the inconclusive construction of the CDF prevented a fully successful completion. The table
below gives a component-by-component breakdown of how each component fit into this
complimentary project design.


                       Project components' contribution to objectives
                                                                        Environmental
                               Competitiveness             Safety       protection
   Rehabilitation of           Bigger ships, protect oil   Safer        Reduce collision & spillage
   breakwaters                 berth from weather          navigation   risk
                               Bigger ships, protect oil   Safer        Reduce collision & spillage
   Extension of breakwaters    berth from weather          navigation   risk
                               Deeper ships, more cargo    Safer        Reduce collision & spillage
   Dredging of channel         intake per ship             navigation   risk
                               Equal treatment of          Safer
   Additional dredging         operators (competition)     navigation
   Wave/current monitoring                                 Safer        Reduce collision & spillage
   & laser-docking                                         navigation   risk
                                                                        Fast detection & intervention
   Pollution monitoring unit                                            capacity
   Environmental mitigation                                             Aborted cdf construction
   Contract/lease              Port authority capacity
   management                  building
                               Capacity to handle bigger   Safer        Reduce collision & spillage
   Pilots training             ships                       navigation   risk
   Port management             Port reform seminar and
   strengthening               technical assistance




                                                      8
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objective 1: Strengthen the long term competitiveness of the Port of Klaipeda in the Baltic
Region.

Fully achieved (and exceeded)

The project's activities have resulted in the Port being able to:

   ·   Receive and serve bigger ships, thus increasing traffic and volume;
   ·   Provide safer conditions, through improved assistance to navigation and deepening of the
       approaches and facilities;
   ·   Curtail the loss of precious productive vessel operation hours during bad weather
       conditions;
   ·   Promote competition between private operators by providing equivalent water-depth
       conditions to competitors; and
   ·   Convince the second biggest global container line (Wiss-based Mediterranean Shipping
       Co - MSC) to invest in a container terminal in Klaipeda (Klaipedos Smelte - quays 83-
       100) ­ thereby also fostering competition and anchoring a large-volume provider to the
       port.

The following indicators tracked competitiveness, institutional strengthening and environment.
Additional comments on these will be found in Annex 3. (Original targets only projected to
2002.)




                                                  9
                                    Indicator                         Baseline     2002 2008 Actual
                                                                                  Target
                           Competitiveness Impact
                            Volume of Oil Products (`000 tons)              855        2000           9,360
                           Volume of dry Fertilizers (`000 tons)          1,687        4085           7,220
                         Generated/ Diverted Traffic (000 tons)               0   0.5 m tons     5.3 m tons
                  Voyage cost savings for using "Panamax" class               0        $2 m          $30 m
                                           vessels (US$ million)
                      Cash Flow from Operations (US$ million)           $15.5 m      $19 m           $24 m
                                             Return on net assets         8.5%        9.3%           6.0%4
                                           Debt service coverage           13.8         6.4           7.815
                                   Institutional Strengthening
                                  Financial return on investments          NA >libor + 4%      >libor + 4%6
                                           for capacity expansion
                     Percentage of new capacity investments with           N/A        100%           100%
                                   economic/financial evaluation
                                 Land lease rate (US$/year/sq.m)           0.82         0.8           1.86
                                           Number of employees              286         270            299
                                    Environmental Indicators
                         Safely disposed dredging material (m3)          0.38 m       0.5 m          1.2 m
                                     Number of vessel accidents               0           0              27
                                  Number of days of port closure             25          20               0
                                       (due to wave disturbance)
                     Wind speed linking to navigation suspension            20           20            208
                                               (m/s) (from West)



The improved competitiveness of the port of Klaipeda, supported by the Bank financed project,
has largely contributed to Klaipeda's readiness to participate in, and prosper from, the global
growth which occurred during the period of project implementation. Klaipeda's ranking in the
world-wide league of container ports provides convincing data that the port grew at an even
faster rate than its peers during this period, going from a ranking of 243rd to 145th in 5 years.9
(See chart.)

4
    Indicator is calculated dividing net profit by all assets.

5
    Since 2002 has been in the range of 5.6 to 11.6

6
    This changes from year to year but must maintain above the minimum of +4.

7
    Both accidents occurred due to Ship-Master's error.

8
 Shipping in the port is prohibited when wind speed is over 20 m/s. With new breakwaters, vessels can stay
alongside the berths in the port with Harbor Master's permission when Westerly wind is over 20 m/s. The indicators
were reviewed in 2002 and the 2002 target for this indicator was revised from 30 (which was in the PAD) to 20.

9
    Similar data prior to 2004 is not available.



                                                                 10
                               Klaipeda among world-wide container ports

          300


          250


          200


          150                                                                         ranking


          100


           50


            0
                     2004           2005      2006        2007         2008

(Source : Containerisation International)



Objective 2: Improve environmental conditions by preventing spills, improving waste reception
facilities, and providing necessary disposal facilities and continuous monitoring of
environmental conditions at the port

Partially Achieved

    ·    Preventing spills: achieved by improving navigational safety, redesigning and extending
         the breakwaters, broadening and deepening the entrance channel, training the pilots,
         protecting the oil terminal from the swell and setting up a permanent well-equipped anti-
         pollution monitoring unit.
    ·    Improving waste monitoring and reception facilities: achieved (indirectly). Contracts
         were signed with other donors that encompassed activities to be funded under this
         component: Danish funding supported a port waste management plan which included
         monitoring and the collection of ship waste; Lithuania, Finland and Denmark financed a
         program for equipment for Klaipeda to manage oil spills.
    ·    Providing necessary disposal facilities: not achieved. The confinement facility was not
         built, though the Bank has received written assurances that it will be built in 2009-2010.
    ·    Monitoring of continuous environmental conditions at the port: achieved by setting up a
         permanent pollution monitoring unit at KSSA.

3.3 Efficiency
The ex post economic return, taking into account actual construction costs and actual traffic
through 2008, is 38 percent, down only slightly from the appraisal estimate of 41 percent. The
difference is not significant. The risk of an unsatisfactory return from here on is minimal; even if


                                                     11
benefits turned out half the `best estimate' starting from 2009 until the end of the 25-year
evaluation period, the ERR would still be 33 percent.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project was highly relevant and its efficiency satisfactory. Though most aspects of the
project's objectives were achieved, the CDF was not built which, given the importance of
environmental concerns, must bring down the overall outcome rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
NA

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
KSSA has well integrated the landlord port concept, demonstrated by its ability to attract one of
the biggest global container lines to invest in its terminal facilities in Klaipeda. Also indicative
of its competitive approach is its sound policy of ensuring the provision of similar water depth to
competing private port operators (tenants).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
NA

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Not including the risks inherent in the global economic crisis, the main risk to the development
outcome resides in the competitive environment and the substantiality of the political will
displayed by the Russian Federation to expand, favor, and protect its own port installations.
Klaipeda, however, still has the unique advantage of being the northernmost port in the Baltic
Sea with all-year-round ice-free access.

The KSSA has displayed a growing maturity in assuming its role as a landlord port, as can be
illustrated by the examples below:

     ·   By adjusting the dredging to ensure equal water-depth to competing "tenants" (private
         port operators).
     ·   By succeeding to attract a major container operator to invest in a container terminal in the
         port.




                                                 12
Given these indications, it can be reasonably expected that the required maintenance and other
budget supports necessary to the upgraded port installations will continue, enabling the Port
Authority to maintain the benefits accrued from the project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
The design was appropriate and highly relevant to the country conditions. The Bank team
incorporated lessons learned in port projects and was diligent in its technical preparation,
carrying out testing of various construction alternatives and completing thorough engineering
studies. They worked closely throughout the preparation with government counterparts and in
particular, put in place a good monitoring and evaluation system.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory
The team supervised the project closely, carrying out more than the minimum number of
required missions, writing comprehensive aide memoires and flagging outstanding issues that
required attention by management. The team made sure to enlist the support of technical experts
whenever required ­ in a project with more than its share of technical issues. Though the CDF
was not built during the project, the team demonstrated great flexibility doing everything it could
to work with counterparts in developing new approaches, new locations, meeting with
stakeholders and finally, extending the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
Quality of entry, design and supervision were all satisfactory, and the team demonstrated
technical competence, flexibility, and a focus on development impact throughout the life of the
project.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
All aspects of the project went smoothly with the exception of the building of the CDF. The
Bank repeatedly raised the issue of the persistent delays with KSSA, as well as with the Ministry
of Transportation in Vilnius. The Bank team also provided senior environmental consultants
during the course of project implementation, and supported KSSA in financing specialized
consultants under the Loan to help resolve the outstanding issues. Despite these efforts,
however, the Government was not able to bring together the multiple stakeholders who had
vested interests in the outcome of this activity, and they were not able to speed up the slow



                                                  13
approval processes involving land ownership. Its inability to accomplish these tasks was the
primary cause for the CDF not being built.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The implementing agency collaborated closely with the Bank team throughout and was diligent
in all aspects of its project supervision, including procurement, financial management, carrying
out its fiduciary obligations, maintaining the monitoring and evaluation system, and ensuring
adequate supervision of the technical works. They deserve particular recognition for their
handling of the difficult circumstances involved with the shipwreck removals in the vicinity of
the breakwaters.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Given the Government's responsibility for the CDF's incompletion (the outcome which is
responsible for the overall MS rating of the project), their moderately satisfactory rating must
hold sway for overall Borrower performance.

6. Lessons Learned

If the Bank is going to finance the construction of containment facilities for contaminated
materials produced by dredging, it needs to ensure a deep knowledge of the country's laws and
regulations vis a vis the Bank's own rules and guidelines. If at all possible, a binding agreement
on the facility's location, as well as treatment technology, should be pursued prior to loan
signing.

The strategic linking of the components identified and designed in support of the first
development objective (and part of the second) were well conceived in their complementarities;
each component enhanced the other such that the outcome was greater than the sum of its parts.
The design should be viewed as a model for similar operations.

The meticulous preparation work that was carried out at the onset of the project and the strong
technical, i.e., geo-technical and hydrological support by specialists and engineering firms is a
remarkable feature in this project, and like the design, should be replicated where appropriate.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Comments from the Borrower (Annex 7) are consistent with the assessment represented in this
report.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
NA



                                                14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                  Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
           Components                                             Estimate (USD
                                         (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                     millions)
 CIVIL WORKS                                   46.90                   48.73            103.90
 GOODS                                          4.80                     1.07            22.29
 CONSULTANT SERVICES                            4.50                     1.60            35.56
 PIU OPERATING COSTS
                                                 .30                     .70            233.33
(including auditors)

                Total Project Cost             56.50                   52.10            92.21


Project Preparation Fund                        0.00                    0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                               .40                     .35            87.50
         Total Financing Required              56.90                   52.45            92.18




(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                              Type of                                   Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                  Estimate       Estimate
                                            Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                          (USD millions) (USD millions)
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                          35.36           35.36        100
and Development
Bilateral Agencies                                        21.54           17.09        79.34




                                                   15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Rehabilitation of the Existing Breakwaters

   ·   Old South breakwater rehabilitation - 1480 m
   ·   Old North breakwater rehabilitation - 150 m

North and South Breakwater Extension

   ·   New South breakwater length - 278 m
   ·   New North breakwater length - 205 m
   ·   Volume of the rock used for the breakwaters - 365820 m3

Dredging of the Channel Entrance

   ·   Volume of dredging - 3,8 MIL m3, port entrance channel was dredged by 2 - 3 m to
       allow PANAMAX type vessels to call the port

Shipwreck near port entrance removed - volume 6273 t.

Training of the Port Pilots
   ·   Twenty pilots trained for safer and more skillful navigation of ships, especially under
       adverse weather conditions
Wave and Current systems equipment

   ·   Wave current station
   ·   Three equipment units and one meteorological station
   ·   Laser docking system is installed at 2 oil berths




                                                 16
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. Achievement of the project objectives was measured by 15 indicators, grouped under three
headings:

       (a) Competitiveness Impact
       (b) Institutional Strengthening
       (c) Environmental Indicators

2. Almost all show that the targets were achieved or exceeded. The comparison is complicated
by the fact that the appraisal traffic targets were for only three early years ­2000, 2001 and 2002,
the year when it was expected that the main works would be complete. Instead, the actual
outcome saw the main works not completed until 2004, causing a lag in the growth of traffic.
Some targets for 2002 or earlier were not met within that period, partly because the works were
not yet finished. However, the trends since then have been very positive, so that the 2002 targets
were reached a year or two later. Thus, a summary assessment would be: "targets exceeded
but with delay".

Indicator by Indicator

   Volume of Oil Products: Target for 2002: 2 million tons, actual 2.7 million: exceeded by a
   third. Since then the volume has more than tripled to 9.4 million tons, implying an average
   growth of 23% per year --good.

   Volume of Dry Fertilizers: Target for 2002: 4.1 million tons, actual 2.35 million: fell short,
   only 60% of target. However, since then the volume has nearly tripled to 7.2 million tons,
   implying an average growth of 21% per year --good.

   Generated/Diverted Traffic: Target for 2002: 0.5 million tons, actual 0.7 million:
   exceeded by a third. Since then the volume has grown by a factor of eight, to 5.3 million
   tons, implying an average growth of 41% per year ­very good.

   Voyage Cost Savings from making port accessible to Panamax-size vessels: Target for
   2002 $2 million, actual $2 million: target met. By 2008 this value had reached $30 million
   per year --satisfactory.

   Cash Flow from Operations: Target for 2002: $19 million, actual $24 million: exceeded.
   Since then it has been as high as $31 million and as low as $11 million, but most recently, in
   2007-08, it was at $24-26 million --adequate.

   Return on Net Assets: Target for 2002: 9.3%, actual 7.3%: fell short. Since then it has
   been in the range 2.5% to 7.7% and most recently (2008) 6%. Somewhat low.

   Debt Service Coverage: Target for 2002: 6.4; actual 9.1: exceeded. Since then it has been
   in range 5.6 to 11.6, most recently 7.8, which is more than adequate.




                                                17
   Financial Return on Investments for Capacity Expansion: Target and actual:
   >LIBOR+4% every year.

   Percentage of New Capacity Investments with Economic/Financial Evaluation: Target:
   100%, actual 100% every year since 2002: met.

   Land Lease Rate per year: Target for 2002: $0.80 per sq.m., actual: $0.95: exceeded.
   Since then it has grown steadily year by year to $1.86. Very satisfactory.

   Safely Disposed Dredging Material: Target for 2002 0.5 million tons, actual 1.2 million
   tons: exceeded. Thereafter it ranged between 0.5 million and 1.5 million tons.

   Number of Vessel Accidents: Target throughout: 0, actual 0 throughout (met), except 2 in
   2008. Both of these accidents were unrelated to port conditions and were attributed to the
   Ship-Master's error.

   Number of Days of Port Closure (due to wave disturbance): Initial value 25 days, target
   for 2002: 20, actual 3 (exceeded ­i.e. favorable). From 2003 through 2008: actual 0 --very
   satisfactory.

Project Costs: Appraisal Estimates and Actuals

3.     As shown in Annex 1, the civil works, which accounted for 82% of total financing
required, experienced only a small over-run ­of less than $2 million or just under 4%. In
contrast, substantially less was spent on goods and consultant services than expected, leading to a
net under-run of $4.4 million (8%).

Traffic: Appraisal Estimates and Actuals

4.      The following table compares the traffic forecasts for 2002 with actuals for that year and
the six years since then. It also shows the rate of growth over this period.




                                                18
                       Main Traffic Categories, Estimates And Actuals


                              2002     2003     2004      2005     2006     2007      2008
 Oil Products
 Target (000 tons)           2,000
 Actual                      2,667    3,540    4,500     5,800    6,772     7,139    9,360
 Actual/target (ratio)        1.33
 Growth from previous yr                33%     27%       29%      17%        5%      31%    23%
                                                                                             Avg
 Dry Fertilizers
 Target (000 tons)           4,085
 Actual                      2,350    2,600    2,724     4,640    5,399     7,213    7,220
 Actual/target (ratio)        0.58
 Growth from previous yr                11%       5%      70%      16%       34%       0%    21%
                                                                                             Avg
 Generated/Diverted
 Traffic
 Target (000 tons)             500
 Actual                        676    1,450      100     1,540    1,820     3,750    5,346
 Actual/target (ratio)         1.35
 Growth from previous yr              115%      -93%   1,440%      18%      106%      43%    41%
                                                                                             Avg



4.      The economic analysis done at appraisal foresaw rapid growth in traffic during the first
five years after completion. Because of the delayed completion of the works, the actual traffic
fell short of the forecasts. The ex post data supplied by KSSA show that the major bulk cargoes,
oil and fertilizer (making up three-fifths of total tonnage handled) in 2005 fell short of the
forecast by 45% but by 2008 the gap had closed to 20%. We project that by 2028, the end of the
25-year evaluation period, this gap will have been further narrowed to 10% --i.e. the updated
forecast will be 90% of the appraisal forecast.

5.      The actual construction cost (works and equipment) was about 4% less than the appraisal
estimate. As for the unit values of savings in shipping costs and the avoidance of accidents,
international trends suggest that they increased somewhat in real terms during the first five years
after completion, that is, until 2008, though the global financial crisis of 2009 will have set them
back again. We lack detailed updated values and therefore retain the appraisal values as a central
estimate.

6.      On this basis the ex post economic return is now 38%, down from 41% at appraisal. The
difference is barely significant, given continuing uncertainties about traffic and shipping costs.
But the result is far in excess of the cost of capital and very robust. Even if the annual benefits
from 2009 until the end of the period were to be half of the `central estimate' forecast, the final
ER would still be 33%.




                                                19
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Pedro Taborga              Sr. Transport Economist                ECSSD   Team Leader
Robert Kietlinski          Operations Officer                     ESCIE   Operations
Patrick Fourgeaud          Senior Port Operation Specialist       TUDTR   Technical Specialist
Nicholay Christyakov       Sr. Finance Officer                    ECSPS   Financial Mgt
Karina Mostipan            Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSPS   Procurement
Iwona Warzecha             Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS   Financial Mgt
Supervision/ICR
Michel Audige              Lead Transport Specialist              ECSSD Transport Specialist
Anders O. Halldin          Consultant                              ECSIE Consultant
Richard Martin Humphreys   Sr. Transport. Econ.                   ECSSD Transport Specialist
Henry Kerali               Lead Transport Specialist              ECSSD Transport Specialist
Cesar Augusto Queiroz      Lead Highway Engineer                  ECSSD Team Leader
Karina Mostipan            Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSPS Procurement
Iwona Warzecha             Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS Financial Mgt
Graham Smith               Consultant                            Consultant Economist
Ross Pavis                 Operations Officer                     ECSSD ICR Team Leader
Michel Luc Donner          Sr. Port Specialist                    ETWTR ICR Author
Marie Laygo                Sr. Program Assistant                  ECSSD Project Support




                                            20
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY95                                                                  91.40
  FY96                                                                  92.84
  FY97                                                                  35.11
  FY98                                                                   0.00
  FY99                                                                  83.82
  FY00                                   49                            260.88
  FY01                                                                   1.22
  FY02                                                                   0.94
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                          Total:         49                            633.18
Supervision/ICR
  FY95                                                                   0.00
  FY96                                                                   0.00
  FY97                                                                   0.00
  FY98                                                                  10.86
  FY99                                                                   0.00
  FY00                                                                  19.35
  FY01                                   20                             88.19
  FY02                                   15                             68.31
  FY03                                   14                             69.20
  FY04                                   11                             58.56
  FY05                                   10                             83.02
  FY06                                    9                             73.08
  FY07                                    2                             30.19
                          Total:         81                            500.76




                                       21
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
NA




                                      22
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
NA




                                      23
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Loan IBRD 70140-LT for Klaipeda Port Project (LT-PE-35776) was signed between the
World Bank (WB) and Klaipeda State Seaport Authority (KSSA) on August 03, 2000. The first
Loan Closing Date was extended until September 30, 2006. The second Loan Closing Date was
extended until December 31, 2008.

It is necessary to stress that the Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation project, comprising
complex port construction works, procurement of goods and technical assistance components,
was the largest (in terms of scale and expenditure) which SE KSSA had undertaken from
borrowed funds.

A basic component of the project ­ new breakwaters ­ has absolutely changed the configuration
of the port entrance. Due to this rehabilitation, bigger vessels now are allowed to stay at berths
nos. 1, 2 and especially no.7 during stormy weather. The seventh berth, in particular, had been
especially dangerous; high waves had been able to reach the berth with very damaging results.
Prior to the reconstruction, when storms were anticipated, some vessels had to stay out of the
port until the weather had calmed; other vessels already in the port and which had not completed
their activities had to either leave the port having not finished their loading/unloading operations
or remain in the port berthed and risk breaking their mooring lines. Reduction of the high wave
effect was documented by scientists at the Sea Researches Centre. Even those who originally
had doubts regarding the necessity of the port entrance reconstruction have been convinced that
the port has become much safer.

Another works component ­ port entrance channel dredging (up to ­ 15 m depth between
breakwater heads) allowed Klaipeda Port to let PANAMAX types of vessels to call on the port
and load safely. Under the project, project port pilots were trained to operate the ships when
passing through the new port gates which had changed the navigational situation. A wave
/current measurement system was installed (in 2003) which due to the rapid changes in computer
technologies will now need modernization.

The Project envisaged and took into account technical supervision, the environmental impact,
and project monitoring; good quality services were delivered by experienced international
companies. The participation of World Bank specialists engaged in project implementation is
worth noting; in all cases SE KSSA received qualified advice on technical, administrative,
procurement and financial issues. Particular attention from the Bank was necessary during the
two loan extensions and when the issue of redistribution of loan funds arose.

It is stressed that having implemented the Klaipeda Port Project financed from the World Bank
loan, it is became possible to invest a lot of funds into essential port infrastructure, and thus
strengthen the competitiveness of all the Klaipeda Port companies in the Baltic Region. At the
same time, environmental conditions were improved as general standards were raised to meet the
standards expected under the project.

All the Project components were successfully performed in the due time except for the Confined
Disposal Facility, as there were a number of serious obstacles preventing this facility from being



                                                 24
built. After the Feasibility Study and Environmental Impact Assessment of the Confined
Disposal Facility were completed, a Detailed Territory Plan of the Port Territory Southwards
from the Senoji Smiltele Street was developed covering the prospective CDF location at the old
harbor for boats in the Smeltes Peninsula. During the Detailed Plan approval procedure, the
Klaipeda Municipality posed a number of unreasonable requirements to the Port Authority, for
example, carrying out an urban assessment of an area that is outside the city. Due to having to
carry out such requirements, the approval procedures took longer than expected. In order to
compensate the old harbor for the small leisure boats that had belonged to the Municipality, SE
KSSA took responsibility for designing and building a new harbor at the address Kairi g. 17,
and these preparation activities services are still underway.

In accordance with the Confined Disposal Facility Feasibility Study prepared by ECOREM in
2002, the total estimated quantity of sediments to be cleaned was 444 ths. m3. It was taken into
account that an additional 20 ths.m3 of the contaminated sediments might accumulate annually.
Thus, during a 5 and 10 year period the quantities calculated were 544 ths.m3 and 644 ths.m3
respectively. The whole project, together with channel dredging the old boat harbor structure
could cost up to 45 Mil. LTL, not taking into account CDF operation costs. According to the
Coastal Research and Planning Institute under Klaipeda University, at present the quantity of
contaminated sediments in the port could reach just 200 ths.m3. Taking into account the costs
mentioned above, investment that should have been made, would have made 225 LTL, without
dredging and treatment in the facility, while the cost of maintenance dredging today is 20 ­ 23
LTL per 1m3.

In the case of CDF project implementation, a huge amount of money would have been spent at
the cost of other projects, and in principle would have been useful only to a single company,
namely, JSC "Vakaru laivu gamykla". Moreover, 9 ha of the territory that is close to big port
terminals would be occupied by the CDF. In the southern part of the port, intermodal cargo
volumes grow very fast, consequently this area would be better allocated for direct port needs,
i.e. for port development. For all these reasons, the majority of the port's operators have a
negative opinion concerning the CDF construction at the Smeltes peninsula.

Having assessed the situation as described above, alternative solutions of the problem were
looked for. In 2008 ECOREM presented CDF Design Proposals at the SC "Toksika" (under the
Ministry of Economy) territory. This company has a license to collect, keep, treat and use
dangerous wastes. Contaminated sediments would be treated without creating any threat to the
sensitive environment of the Kuronian lagoon and Baltic Sea coast.

Practice has shown that the project of the CDF is very complicated, first, due to an unclear legal
basis, second, due to unsolved land property and responsibility issues, necessitating that
decisions be taken at the Government level. Building a CDF might be worth having a separate
project to fully concentrate on its preparation and implementation with all the attention required
both from the Borrower (Government) and from the World Bank sides.

As the problem of contaminated sediments is important not only to the port, but also to Klaipeda
City and to the Region, it was decided to present the information concerning the CDF to the
Strategic Planning Committee under the Government of the Republic of Lithuania in order to



                                                25
name the implementing responsible entities and to envisage financing. At present, the quantities
of the sediments are being clarified. Hopefully, when the Strategic Planning Committee
concludes its study, a more effective solution to the problem of contaminated sediments and
treatment will be found.




                                               26
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NA




                                       27
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   1. Staff Appraisal Report Project Appraisal Document, 2000
   2. Klaipeda Port Entrance Rehabilitation Project Environmental Impact Assessment, 1999
   3. Loan Agreement
   4. Aide Memoires
   5. Country Assistance Strategy for Lithuania (Report No 19135-LT, April 19, 1999)
   6. Implementation Status & Results Reports
   7. Annual Audit Reports and other project financial statements
   8. Quarterly Project Management Reports
   9. Project Information Document and Integrated Safeguard Datasheet
   10. Inception report May 1998 on Design of Klaipeda Port Entrance by Frederic Harris
   11. Plan for Privatizing Port Operations in Lithuania
   12. Environmental Monitoring Reports of Breakwaters
   13. Inception Report for Klaipeda Port Entrance Channel Dredging and Sunken Wreck
       Removal Works




                                           28
                                             21°E                                    22°E                                          23°E                                                 24°E                                                   25°E                                        26°E




                                                                                                                                                                                              L AT V I A
                                                                                              To
                                                                                            Pamoali          To            To                                             To
                                                                        To                                  Auce          Auce                                         Jelgava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                     Priekule                                                                                                                     To             Barbele                                                                                                            LITHUANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                Bauska
                   Baltic                                                              Mazeikiai                   Naujoji
                                                                                                                   Akmene
                                                 To
                                                                    Skuodas                                                                               Joniskis
                                                                                                 Vieksniai                Akmene                                                                                   Likenai
                       Sea                     Rucava                                                              Ve
                                                                                                                     nt
                                                                                                                                                          Mu
                                                                                                                                                               sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Birzai
                                                                                        Seda                                                                                                                                                                    Suvainiskis




                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                            Linkuva                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Akniste
                56°N                    Sventoji         Darbenai                      Telsiai                       Kursenai         SIAULIAI                                                                   Pasvalys                                        Pandelys                                                                                  56°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                Joniskelis
                                    Palanga                                                                                              Siauliai
                                                                                                                                                                Pakruojis                                         PA N E V E Z I O                                                                        To
                                                                         Plunge     TELSIAI                                                                                                                                                                                    Rokiskis                Daugavpils




                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                         y ci
                                                        Kretinga                                                                                                                                                 Vabalninkas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To




                                                                                                       irv
                                                                                                        V                                                            Radviliskis                             Lev u o                                                                                          Daugavpils
                                    Gargzdai                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kupiskis
                                                                                                                                                                               Seduva
                                                           ja




                                        Klaipeda                                    Rietavas                          Uzventis                                                                                                                                                                  Zarasai
                                                         ini




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Subacius
                                                         M




                                                                                                                                                                                             Panevezys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Svedasai
                                                                                                                                   Kelme




                                                                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                                                                                            Ne v e z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Snieckus
                                              Priekule                                                                                                                                                                                                          UTENOS
                                 Kurshskiy                                                                                                  Tytuvenai                                                                                  Anyksciai
                                   Zaliv                KLAIPEDOS                                                                                                                     Gudziunai                                                                                 Utena
                                                                                      Silale




                                                                                                                                            Du
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kavarskas
                                                                                                 Skaudviles




                                                                                                                                              by
                                                                                                                                              b
                                                                Silute




                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                  sa
                                                                                                                                           Raseiniai                      Su                                                                                                                               Ignalina
                                                                                                                                                                             sv   e
                                  To                                                  Taurage                                                                                                Kedainiai
                             Rybachiy                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ukmerge              Moletai
                                                                                                      TA U R A G E S                                                                                                            to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   j   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Svencioneliai
                                                                                   Pagegia                                                                                     KAUNO                                         en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Svencionys




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sv
                                                                                                      Jurbarkas                            Nem
                                                                                                                                                 un a s
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jonava
                55°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       55°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sirvintos                                                      To
                                                                        To                                                                                                                                                                                              Pabrade                                  Lyntupy
                                                                   Chernyakhovsk                                                         Sakiai

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kaisiadorys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VILNIAUS
                                                                                                                                                                                         Kaunas
                                               IAN EDE RATION
                                        RU S S I AN F ED ER ATI ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LAR U S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B E L AR US




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                              Kudirkos                                                 Garliava




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ris
                                                                                                             Naumiestis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ziezmarai                                             Naujoji
                                                                                                                             MARIJAMPOLES                                                                                                                                                    To



                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VILNIUS

                                                                                                                                                                                              una
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vilnia              Kobylnik

                                                                                                                                                                                          Nem
                                                                                                                                                                           Prienai                                                 Trakai
                                                                                                      To
                        LITHUA N I A                                                             Chernyakhovsk
                                                                                                                          Vilkaviskis
                                                                                                                                  Marijampole
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jieznas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Juozapines/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kalnas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Smorgan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rudiskes                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Merk ys     (292 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Oshmyany
                                                                                                                                  Kalvarija                                                  Alytus                                                        Jasiuni
                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                              Sestokai
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Daugai
                             COUNTY (APSKRITIS) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Salcininkai                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                      To                                Lazdijai         A L Y TA U S                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                 Suwalki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Varena                                      To                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                             RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                     Merzine                                                     Voronovo                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Eisiskes
                             MAIN ROADS                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                              Augustow                                                                                            To                                                                                                       54°N
                                                                                      54°N                                                                                                 Druskininkai                                          Radun                                         0            20             40       60 Kilometers
                             RAILROADS
DECEMBER 2004




                                                                                                     LAN D
                                                                                                  PO LA ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33437
                             COUNTY (APSKRITIS) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                          To                                Vasilishki                                                         0                     20                 40 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                        To              Hrodna
                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 Hrodna
                                                                                                                                 23° E                                                  24°E                                                        25°E                                            26°E                                     27°E
