Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
se~~~~~~~A                                          - 2'1Z_
Rqot No. 1 -4858-AR
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
October 3, 1988
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document hbs a resticted dsbuion an may be used by recpnts only a tbe perfomuance of
dedr offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbelosed without World Bak authoization.



Currency Unit - Austral (A)
On September 22, 1988, the controlled exchange rate
("commercial Tate") was US$1 = A 12.00; the free market
exchange rate ("financial rate") stood at US$1 - A 14.33.
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARGEX    -  Argentina Exports
BCRA     -  Central Bank of Argentina
DJNI     -   Sworn Declaration of import Need
GATT     -  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP      -  Gross Domestic Product
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
NADE     -  Nomenclature of Export Duties and Taxes
NADI     -  Nomenclature of Import Duties and Taxes
ORP      -  Official Import Reference Price
QR       -   Quantitative Import Restriction
REER     -  Real Effective Exchange Rate
SICE     -  Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade
TAR      -   Temporary Admission Regine
TPL      -  Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan
TPL II   -   Second Trade Policy Loan



- i -                           lOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMM      ARY.  ..... ............... .. . .ii.
PART I.      TIM ECONOMY .......................          ...........  ...........    1
A. Structural Problems and Re:ent Developments .............    1
- Backggrou nd ............ ...........        .....           1
- Stabilization Efforts from 1984 to 1987 ..............    4
- The October 1987 Program and Developments in 1988 ....    6
B. The Government's New Program: Plan Primavera ............        7
- Stabilization Efforts              .......     .    ..    7
- Nonfinancial Public Sectot. .                                a
- The Quasi-fiscal Deficit. .. ..       . ...      . .....   10
- The Balance of Payments and External Finance   ...   11
- The Monetary Program                  ...   13
- Performance to Date ............................... . .     14
C. Progress on Structural Problems and Plans for Further
Reform.s.......... 15
- Public Finance.....................................         15
- Financial System                   . . .   17
D. Medium Term Prospects and External Financing ............       18
- Current Account .........      .      ..8..........................   i
- Savings and Investments .... . .    19
- External Finance ....                  ....... ..  20
E. Macroeconomic Monitoring .....       ........   20
P. Risks to the Macroeconomic Program            .    ....   22
PART II. TRADE POLICY IN ARGENTINA.t ........ 23
- Background                     .......                      23
- The Import Regime in 1987 ............................   24
- The Export Regime in 1987 ............................  26
- Export Response to the TPL Supported Trade Reform ....   27
- Domestic Industrial Incentives .......................   28
PART III.   THE TRADE AND INDUSTRY REFORM PROGRAM IN 1988189    ...   29
A. Program Scope and Loan Objectives              .       .       29
B. The Action Program .....................................   30
- Removal of Non-tariff Import Barriers and their
Substitutes ........................................   31
- Reduction and Rationalization of Tariff Protection...   31
- Limitation of Safeguards, Anti-dumping and
Anti-subsidy to the Short-term .....       ...............   31
- Deregulation of Exports .......        ......................  32
- Tightening of the Industrial Promotion Regime ........   33
C. Related Policy Reforms                   .         .           34
D. Macroeconomic and Social Impact               .       .        35
- Exchange Rate and Balance of Payments ................  35
- Fiscal Implications ...................                     36
- Social Impact  ..36
This docunent has a retriced distbution and may be used by rcipients only in t e perfo%awe |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ba k authc 4zaton.|



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont)
PART IV.    FEATURES OF THE PROP(SED LOAN ......................... . ... .  37
A. Loan History ................................................ 37
B. Loan Amount, Borrower and Implementing Agency ...........  38
C. Letter of Development Policy and Letter of Sector
Policy .................................................. 38
D. Tranche Release, Disbursement, Procurement and
Audit ................................................... 38
E. Monitoring and Reporting ................. ...............   39
P. Benefits and Risks       ..........  ..... ...... ..........  39
PART V.     BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ................             ..... ...  41
PART VI.    COLLABORATION WITH THE IMP ...     ...........       .......... .  43
PART VII.   RECOMMENDATION. . .                  ........    43
TEXT TABLES
1. Summary of Public Sector Deficit. ........ ................ ....          9
2. Balance of Paymentsa         y      m      es.........    .     ....    12
FIGURES
1.1 Real Exchange Rate ........ ....    3
1.2 Interest Payments, Trade Balance and Current Account        .     .      3
1.3 Real Wages .     .............. ........................................   3
1.4 Investment and Savings              ............              ......   3
1.5 Monthly Inflation                     ......* ..............   3
1.6 Public Savings Before and After Interest Payments           .    .       3
ANNES
Annex I:     Economic Indicators
1. Argentina - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
2. Argentina - Balance of Payments, 1980-1985
3. Argentina - Balance of Payments, External Capital and Debt
4. Argentina - Non-financial Public Sector Deficit, 1987-1989
5. Argentina - Quasi-fiscal Surplus in Real Terms, 1988-1989
6. Argentina - Factors of Monetary Expansion
Annex II:    Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex IIIs   Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Annex IV:    Government's  Development Policy Letter
Annex V:     Government's Sector Policy Letter
Annex VI:    Policy Reform Matrix
Annex VIIs   Technical Assistance Component
Annex VIII:  Trade Statistics
1. Argentina - Structure of Import Protection for the
Manufacturing Sector
2. Argentina - Real Effective Exchange Rate, 1987-1989
3. Argentina - Realized Trade Taxes and Subsidies and
Anti-Export Biases by Product Category
(January-August 1987)
4. Argentina - Exports by Commodity Groups, 1970-1987
5. Argentina - Imports by Commodity Groups, 1970-1987
6. Argentina - International Prices, Trade Volume Indices
and Terms of Trade, 1970-1987
MAP: IBRD 20450



- fixi -
ARGENTINA
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrrower:               Argentine Republic.
Amount:                  US$300 million equivalent.
Termss                   15 years. including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Loan and Program
Description:           The proposed Second Trade Policy Loan (TPL II)
would be the second operation to support the
Government's program for integrating Argentina
into the world economy. The first phase of this
program was supported by a Bank Trade Policy and
Export Diversification Loan (TPL). It brought
free-trade status to Argentine exporters and
removed a substantial number of quantitative
import restrictions (QRs).  The response of non-
traditional industrial exports has been very
encouraging. The proposed TPL II would support
the implementation of the second phase, in which
the Government would address the hard core of
import protection, deregulate exports and tighten
an industrial investment incentive system that
tends to undercut the opening of the economy.
Inter alia, the proposed loan would support the
Government's efforts to raise the exposure of
domestic industrial production to import
competition without QRs from 63? to 85? while
reducing the average level of tariffs from 43Z to
302 and the maximum tariff rate from 115? to 50Z.
Benefits and Risks:      The program supported by the proposed TPL II would
free industrial trade from regulatory constraints
and would reduce the burden and the dispersion of
trade taxation so as to allow the industrial
sector to compete efficiently in the world market.
Over the medium-term, the program can be expected
to: (i) raise industrial exports and reduce the
dependence on volatile commodity export earnings;
(ii) increase industrial labor demand; and
(iii) raise the productivity of investment. The
success of the reform program hinges on the
Government's credibility to sustain the supporting
macroeconomic framework. A policy reversal might
be unavoidable should the private sector conclude
that the reforms would be short-lived and would,
therefore, fail to respond. It is, thus,



- Iv -
necessary to: (i) relax the constraints on the
exchange rate by consistently implementing the
recent macroeconomic policy initiatives,
especially the deficit reduction measures; and
(ii) address the initial adverse trade balance
effects through a credible combination of exchange
rate adjustment and external financing. The risk
is reduced by: (i) the Government's commitment to
maintain a competitive exchange rate; (ii) the
implementation of proposed policy measures to
reduce the combined fiscal deficit from 4.6S of
GDP in the current fiscal year to 2.42 in the next
fiscal year based on a the macroeconomic program
stated in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy; and (iii) the Government's reduced
reliance on new issues of domestic debt
instruments and the related easing of crowding out
pressure. Furthermore, the Government has begun
discussions with its external creditors and
intendsi to have a complete external financing plan
for 1988 and 1989 in place by the end of this
year.
Estimated
Disbursements:         The loan would be disbursed in two tranches.  The
first tranche of US$150 million would be available
for disbursement upon fulfillment of conditions of
effectiveness. which includes a reduction of the
production coverage of QRs from 371 to 18X and of
the average production weighted tariff rate from
431 to 301. The second tranche of US$147.65
million would be released upon: (i) progress in
the macroeconomic program, satisfactory to the
Bank; and (ii) the fulfillment of specified
conditions, including the reduction of the QR
production coverage to 15?, the removal of
industrial export licenses and an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the administrative
control of the industrial investment incentive
regime.   Disbursements of US$2.35 million for
consultant's services, training and equipment
purchases would be completed by June 1990.
Schedule of
Disbursements:                                 Amount in US$ Millions
Bank FY                       1989           1990
Annual                       300.00            -
First and Second Tranche    297.65
Consultant's Services
and Equipment                 2.35            -
Cumulative                   300.00          300.00
Appraisal Report:    This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.



INTERNATIONAL BMAK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DBEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND '^VCOOE3NDATION O THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
TO THE ARGENTINS REPUBLIC
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Argentina for the equivalent of US$300 m4.llion, in
support of the Government's program of trade policy reform. The loan would
be repaid over 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
2.       The Executive Directors have received a Country Economic
Memorandum entitled "Argentina% Economic Recovery and Growth' (6467-AR),
dated May 19, 1987. Part I of the present report is based on the findings
of macroeconomic missions that visited Argentina in May, August and
September 1988, respectively.
PART I. THE ECONONY
A. Structural Problems and Recent Developments
Backtround
3.       Argentina has suffered chronic macroeconomic instability and slow
growth since the 1940s. Heavy dependence on agricultural exports whose
world market prices are highly volatile has made macroeconomic management
inherently difficult. Fiscal and monetary policies, however, have ttnded
to compound the volatility and have often destabilized the economy even
when the external environment was favorable. Instability has discouraged
domestic saving and capital formation, and this in turn has led to slow
growth.
4.       Trade and iadustrial policses over the last half-century have also
contributed to instability and slow browth. The import-substitution
industrialization drive begun in the 1930s evolved over the years into
autarkic policies that walled out ccmpetition from imports and discouraged
exports. Through much of the post-war period, average effective protection
levels exceeded 60 percent with wide nominal tariff dispersion. In
addition, import prohibitions, quantitative restrictions, and opaque
subsidies to industry (such as the "buy-Argentina" policy of the public
sector) further insulated the sector from international competition. This
accentuated instability and slowed industrial growth because the economy
remained dependent on volatile commodity exports while industrial
productivity grew slowly in the absence of external competition.
5.       Beginning in the late 1940s, the Government expanded the state's
direct role in the economy. The Government became a net borrower of funds
to finance capital formation and subsidies for favored activities through
direct transfers, tax exemptions, and hidden transfers through the
financial system. Initially, until the mid-1950s, much of the additional



Government expenditures could be financed from a gradual reduction of
external reserves and surpluses of the country's social security system,
but soon thereafter large and chronic fiscal deficits became a dominant
feature of the Argentine economy. In the mid-1970s and then again in the
early 1980s deficits exceeded 10 percent of GDP. State-led growth could
only be sustained through foreign borrowing and domestic money creation.
6.       In the early 1980s, rising world oil prices, slower OECD growth,
surging real international interest rates, and declining commodity prices
combined with inappropriate domestic policies to plunge Argentina int.o deep
recession.   The Government used the exchange rate to lower inflation
expectations between 1978 and 1981, and this led to heavy borrowing from
foreign sources; when confidence in the exchange rate policy waned, capital
flows reversed, eventually precipitating a crisis. From 1980 through 1982,
while the public sector contracted US$12.8 billion in new loans, short-term
capital outflows and international reserve losses amounted to
US$21.7 billion. The abrupt cessation of voluntary commercial bank lending
in 1982 and the resulting uncertainties required strong and immediate
adjustment measures, but the South Atlantic conflict dominated the
Government's concerns, and precluded adjustment policies during 1982 and
1983.
7.       When the present Government assumed power in December 1983, it
inherited a deeply indebted and severely distorted economy. The external
debt was US$45.1 billion, about 70 percent of GDP. The public sector
either owed or had assumed most of the external debt. As the borrowed
funds had been invested poorly and had financed substantial capital flight.
the external public liabilities had no corresponding domestic assets, and
so their servicing would require enormous transfers from the private sector
in coming years. Public sector finances were out of control in the wake of
the costly South Atlantic war, inflation was running at 20 percent a month,
and investment was contracting. Per capita GDP was 20 percent lower than
it had been in 1980, unemployment was rising, and the struggle over income
shares intensified as real income shrank, unleashing waves of strikes and
wage-price increases.
8.       tie sevfre structural problems of the economy were evident in the
deterioration of savings and investment balances. At end-1983, gross
investment had fallen to less than 60 percent of the 1978-80 level (Figure
1), and national savings had declined to less than half 1978-80 levels
during the same period. Inflation drove savings out of the country,
strangled financial markets, and increased the risk of investments in
projects of longer gestation. The increasingly heavy weight of external
debt reversed the traditional pattern of resource flows as the country
became a sustained net exporter of capital after 1981.
9.       In this context, the highest priority of economic policy was
restoring macroeconomic stability in order to control inflstion. Without
such stability, limited external and domestic savings would not find their
way into investment and could not expect to produce sustained growth. This
effort in turn hinged upon the success of the Government in reducing its
fiscal deficit since reducing the public draft on national savings was the
only practical way of reducing upward pressure on domestic interest rates



- 3 -
Figure 1
#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                             w     .a nt .    T d
3.0
2.5llil
.10.0
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IV LEdl                           Is i Mis 96
ISM I" L"  m  m IM L"is 9U                               155   US  
Wet.:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~aO. Zstwe.* *lH S ctoir,
ItSti UCtWU
la~ ~ ~ ~~laum
100                                             15
10                                  2.3~~~~~~~~~~~1  Sig
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
15                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.0
LQ9    m Lqo    qn    i            Lqp~!9w set go I=1904Igo sm.5
NIote, l4ufias,*ii Public sector.
national accounts basis



and avoiding inflationary money creation. Government revenues had to
accommodate new expenditures for foreign interest payments in excess of 4
percent of GDP. The struggle to stabilize the economy therefore became
central to economic policy over the next four years.
Stabilization Efforts from 1984 to 1987
10.      The present Government came into office committed to restoring
real wages and growth.  It first attempted an incomes poliey to quell
inflation and distribute adjustment costs more equitably. Selected prices
(public sector goods and services, private sector goods subject to price
controls, foreign exchange adjustments, and regulated interest rates) were
pegged to the anticipated inflation rate, and to decreed real wage
increases. However, as the fiscal deficit was not under control, this
policy mix stimulated aggregate demand making the external accounts even
more unsustainable. The economy grew by 2.6 percent in 1984. The fiscal
deficit, although lower than in 1983, was nevertheless over 12 percent of
GDP and continued to drive the inflation rate, which averaged 18 percent
monthly for a year, the highest in this decade. Already low external
commodity prices fell another 10 percent and, having achieved neither
stabilization nor economic growth, the Government was forced to shift
policy.
11.      A new progrsm, begun in October 1984 under a 15-month stand-by
arrangement with the IMF, included adjustment of public prices,
devaluation, and tight credit policy as well as some relaxation in price
controls. These actions probably staved off hyperinflation--monthly
inflation rates fell from around 30 percent to 18 percent by the end of
1984--and improved the external accounts slightly. But policy loosened in
the first quarter of 1985, and public sector price adjustment and
devalaation slipped behind the inflation rate. Moreover, wage increases
were decreed in January and March to compensate for higher-than-expected
inflation.
12.      With the economy stagnating and consumer prices rising at an
annual rate exceeding 1,000 percent, the Government announced a more
comprehensive initiative in mid-June 1985, the Plan Austral. The program's
objective was to break the 'inertial' pressures arising from the effects of
irflation expectations on contracts and on asset demands. The measures
iD .uded a wage-price freeze, a tightened fiscal and monetary policy, and a
fixed exchange rate following a steep devaluation. A new currency, the
austral, was introduced.
13.      Partly because the fall in inflation expectations increased the
willingness to hold money and partly because of the monetary restriction,
real interest rates turned sharply positive. Real GDP contracted
4.4 percent in 1985, but a rebound in consumption and investment in the
fourth quarter of 1985 led to a strong recovery the following year.
Investment rose in real terms in 1986 after five years of contraction, and
real GDP rose 5.4 percent. Monthly inflation fell from about 30 percent to
about 2 percent over the second half of 1985. The economy achieved some
remonetization: the M1IGDP ratio rose from 4 to 8 percent. The fiscal



- 5 -
deficit fell by half to about 6 percent of GDP, partly because real
revenues rose through the Tansi effect and partly because of higher real
public enterprise prices. The trade surplus reached US$4.6 billion on
account of improved agricultural production and prices, as well as lower
imports resulting from the stabilization program. The new program enabled
Argentina to reschedule its external debt with commercial and official
creditors in August 1985.
14.      The renewed growth, however, generated new pressures on prices and
external accounts, and exposed fundamental weaknesses in the Plan Austral.
First, the fiscal program failed to eradicate the public sector's
imbalances, and once this became evident, inflationary expectations
revived. Even if only a part of the fiscal adjustment was politically
feasible prior to the program, the Government could have taken advantage of
the program's popularity to carry out a major tax reform.  Second, the
program was superimposed on a closed economy, so the competitive pressure
of international prices did not effectively discipline real increases of
product prices forcing over reliance on wage price agreements. The
domestic consensus between business and labor remained too weak to
forestall significant real wage and pension increases in late 1985 and
early 1986, contributing to a resurgence of inflation expectations.
Without a large stock of international reserves and a credible fiscal
program, 'unfreezing the economy reignited inflationary expectations.
Finally, the deterioration in the terms of trade further undermined the
program's fiscal and income effects.
15.      Thus, by the end of the first quarter of 1986, higher aggregate
demand and reemerging fiscal control problems contributed to renewed
resurgent inflation. The Government decided nevertheless to end the price
freeze in April 1986, devaluing 4 percent at the same time and announcing
that henceforth it would set exchange rates and public sector prices in
accordance with the inflation rate. These measures, combined with higher-
than-anticipated wage adjustments, generated further inflationary pressure.
Renewed GDP growth and increased foreign exchange availability increased
Import demand more than 20 percent with respect to the compressed 1985
level. Merchandise exports declined 17 percent because of a deterioration
in world grain and oilseed prices, even though industrial exports, which
had grown 20 percent in 1985, maintained their new high level because of
the attractive exchange rate. Therefore, despite lower world interest
rates, the current account deficit rose from US$953 million (1.5 percent of
GDP) to US$2,859 million (3.8 percent of GDP). Once again, the Government
had no option but to impose restrictive monetary policies early in the
third quarter of 1986, and real growth slowed in the fourth quarter.
16.      The slowdown continued into 1987, but inflation did not abate.
Falling world grain prices and reduced export tax rates reduced public
sector revenues. Further, the spending of several provincial governments
and municipalities and certain public enterprises, far exceeded their
budgets and more than consumed the central administration's surplus. In
addition, the central bank's *quasi-fiscal* activity became a means of
channelling housing and other subsidies to favored sectors.



- 6 -
The October 198? ProRram and DeveloDments in 1988
17.      Tne deteriorating fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficit during 1987 left
a legacy of worsening disequilibrium in financial markets. This resulted
in the eventual increase in inflation in 1988. The demands of the public
sector on national savings were sharply increased, as the combined deficit
mounted to a high level of 9.4 percent of GDP.11
18.      In October 1987, just after the Congressional and provincial
elections, the Government announced a new emergency effort to control
inflation. This included new fiscal measures and a price freeze.
To cope with the fiscal situation, Congress in January 1988 passed the
October package of measures, including taxes on bank checks and a forced
savings program; it raised the tax on savings and time deposits
2 percentage points, and increased the tax on the transfer of public sector
bonds by 0.75 percentage points. Public sector prices were increased to
higher real levels than at the end of 1987. However, by the end of June,
it was clear that revenues continued to fall because of the effects of
inflation on lagged tax collections, the tax exemptions eroding the VAT and
other taxes and apparent evasion; the initial 1988 targets would not be
achieved.
19.      The pace of inflation accelerated progressively in the first
semester. After a first quarter of near single digit inflation, prices
rose about 20 percent per month in May and June and accelerated to over
25 percent in July. This reflected, among other factors, removal of price
controls in the first quarter of .-38, higher public enterprise prices, aad
recovery of agricultural prices. In April 1988, the Governmeut reduced the
price control coverage to 25 percent of the consumer price index, and in
May reduced it to 12 percent. Also, the new socizl security tax had an
effect on prices.
20.      The inflation resurgence quickly led to an erosion in public
confidence. The demand for money fell precipitously and the willingness of
the public to hold public liabilities put further pressure on monetary
policy. The seve~t y of the new inflation episode compelled the Government
to act.
1/ The "combined deficit" of the public sector refers in this report to
the deficit of the consolidated nonfinancial public sector, excluding
the provinces, measured on a cash basis plus the operational deficit of
the Central Bank associated with fiscal expenditures, the so-called
quasi-fiscal deficit (discussed below). Provincial governments are
excluded from the computation of total borrowing requirements because
the provinces are not required to report their budgets on a cash basis.



7-
B. The Government's New Program: Plan Primavera
21.      On August 3, 1988, the Government annotunced a new policy package,
since labelled the *Plan Primavera". Following the initial announcement,
the Government invited the Bank to undertake an assessment of the plan, and
to discuss how the plan could be better linked to structural reforms
already under discussion between the Bank and Argentina. Accordingly, a
mission (including both macroeconomic and sectoral specialists) visited
Argentina in August to assess the internal consistency, feasibility and
sustainability of the policy package, while at the same time negotiating
the present loan, and the revised conditions of effectiveness of the
Banking Sector Loan. This mission helped the government articulate an
overall agenda of structural reforms oriented to fiscal adjustment,
improved efficiency, and restoration of growth, and the parameters of a
stabilization program. A follow-up mission reviewed the Government's
initial fiscal and monetary programs for 1989, and made suggestions for
further significant changes. The outcome of these discussions was the
Letter of Development Policy, signed by the Government on September 22, and
thereafter made public as a declaration of its policy intentions.
22.      The recent discussions represent an evolution, and intensification
of the dialogue on adjustment issues between the Bank and Argentina that
has taken place over the last two years. As detailed further in Part V of
this report, this dialogue has encompassed policy-based loans in major
sectors, technical assistance lending, and economic and sector work. By
the same token, it is anticipated that the Bank will support the overill
program of structural adjustment through a number of further interventions,
including further operations in the financial sector, in the public
enterprises, and in industrial restructuring.
Stabilization Effort,%
23.      The stabilization components of the plan are predicated on the
analysis that the recent high rates of inflation are attributable both to
inertial components and to the excessive demand for domestic credit on the
part of the public sector in the presence of unusually narrow domestic
financial markets. The August measures, therefore, included a voluntary
price freeze to reduce the inertial component, but also placed emphasis on
strong reductions in the demands of the public sector on domestic savings
and credit from the Central Bank.
24.      Prices were anchored in several ways.  The policy is built upon an
agreement with industrial groups to hold price increases to no more than
3.5 percent in September and to zero in October. Also, the Government has
announced that public enterprise prices, after an increase of 30 percent
prior to the beginning of the program, would be kept unchanged until end-
September; a 4 percent increase is envisaged for the month of October. The
Central Bank devalued the official rate of the austral by 11.4 percent at
the start of the program, and froze the rate through September 30; a
further devaluation of 3 percent has been announced for October. Wages of
the Central Administration were also frozen.
25.      The Government's fiscal objective is to constrain the combined
deficit to the level of external savings reasonably mobilized by the
Government plus a small margin for reasonable expectations on



- 8 -
remonetization of the economy.  The government has placed all imports
except oil as well as about half of industrial exports in the free exchange
market; this is an effective exchange rate tax that will further reduce the
deficit of the combined public sector.   The Government has committed
itself to prevent the differential between the official and free exchange
rates from going beyond 25 percent, and to unify exchange markets gradually
starting April 1, 1989. In the meantime, by buying foreign exchange from
exporters surrendered at the official rate, the Government will realize an
exchange rate gain when it sells this exchange to importers at the free
market rate. This gain is expected to yield about 0.5 percent of GDP on an
annual basis in both 1988 and 1989.
26.      The 1989 budget, presented to Congress on September 29 and before
the start of the fiscal year for the first time in a decade, forms the
basis for the new macroeconomic program. This budget, together with
supplemental measures presented below, would result in a substantial
improvement in the combined deficit from 4.6 percent of GDP in 1988 to 2.4
percent of GDP in 1989 (Table 1). This result would imply a reduction of
over two-thirds when compared to the extremely high 1987 level (9.4
percent).
27.      Following discussions with the Bank, the authorities are committed
to important supplemental spending cuts and revenue increases beyond those
shown in the budget program for 1989. These inciudes (i) a reduction of
expenditures of more than US$500 million; (ii) the reinstating of the VAT
rate to 18 percent (or equivalent measures) by January 1, 1989; (iii) a
reform of the VAT and of excise taxes with the dual objective of increasing
revenue and decreasing the distortions resulting from the industrial
promotion scheme, anticipated to be in place by mid-year; (iv) a short-term
program to increase substantially the ability of the Federal Tax Office
(DGI) to collect taxes. The Bank expects to work closely with the
Government in its tax reform and tax administration program.
28.      As now formulated, the program will require recourse to domestic
financing for approximately 1 percent of GDP. This assumption, which
underscores the need for a firm monetary policy in the months ahead, can be
compatible with the desired rate of inflation reduction if the demand for
austral-denominated assets increases during 1989. This increase appears
plausible, as lower inflation and inflationary expectations can be
expected. Key to the program's success are elements in each of its main
components--nonfinancial public sector performance, the quasi-fiscal
deficit, external finance, and the monetary program.
Ronfinancial Public Sector
29.      Primarily because of falling revenues, the performance of the
nonfinancial public sector in 1988 is expected to improve only modestly
over the unsatisfactory performance of 1987. The deficit of the non-
financial public sector is projected to fall from 4.7 to 4.3 percent of
GDP. Even though total expenditures fell in 1988 relative to 1987 (from
24.2 to 22.7 percent of GDP), revenues also have continued to fall (from
20.1 percent of GDP in 1987 to 18.7 percent in 1988) (Table 1).



Table 1: SUMMARY OF PUBWIC SECTOR DEFICITS
(percent of GDP)
--------------------------------------------------------
1987   1988   1989
--------------------------------------------------------
Nonfinancial Public Sector
Public Sector Savings           -1.4   -1.6    1.4
Current Revenues               19.5   17.8   20.1
Current Expenditures           20.4   19.2   19.8
Public Enterprises Savings     -0.5   -0.3    1.1
Capital Revenues a/              0.5    0.9    1.1
Capital Expenditures             3.8    3.5    3.5
Borrowing Requirement            4.7    4.3    1.0
Central Bank
Domestic operating result bI    -3.8    0.3   -0.2
External result                 -0.9   -0.6   -1.2
Quasifiscal Deficit              4.7    0.3    1.4
Combined Public Sector Deficit    9.4    4.6    2.4
a/ Includes forced savings scheme
bI Includes 45 percent provisions on loans to, and income, from BHN as well as
gains from the exchange rate tax estimated to be 0.52 in 1988 and 0.62 in 1989.



- 10 -
30.      The fall in revenue collection is one of the most worrisome
features of the economic performance. The acceleration of inflation in
both years can explain part of the decrease in revenues with respect to
GDP, but more fundamental causes also appear at work. Tax collection has
long been hampered by low voluntary compliance. Also, the industrial
promotion scheme has eroded the base of the VAT, income and capital taxes.
On the other hand, the public enterprise performance in 1988 has shown
signe of improvement.
31.      The 1989 budget, and the supplementary measures (para. 26)
envisage a reduction of the non-financial public sector borrowing
requirements to about 1 percent of GDP on a cash basis. This ambitious
target appears viable because of changes in the budgetary process and
exceptional revenue and expenditure measures that have been initiated by
the government. The most important budgetary development is the adoption
of the principle of independence of the central administration budget from
those of the main past sources of deficit creation: the public
enterprises, the provincial governments, and the social security system.
This means that there is a *natural tendency of the public sector accounts
to produce a relatively low deficit, by historic standards, if inflation
were to be reduced to manageable levels. This, together with the new
social security taxes whose effect would be felt fully in 1988, permitted
authorities to project initially--prior to the supplemental measures-
-reductions of the 1989 non-financial public sector deficit to about 2.2
percent of GDP down from 4.3 percent in 1987.
32.      This initial apassivea outcome of the budgetary exercise, however,
would not have been consistent with the objective of decreasing the
reliance on domestic sources of credit. The modifications to the program,
therefore, include additional measures (para. 26) to increase revenues and
decrease expenditures of the central administration and of public
enterprises. These are expected to contribute a further reduction of 1.2
percent of GDP. The revenue measures would provide about 0.6 percent of
GDP and the expenditure reductions would provide a like amount. These will
enable the nonfinancial public sector deficit to be reduced to one percent
of GDP.
The Quasi-fiscal Deficit
33.      The operational quasi-fiscal deficit of the Central Bank is
comprised of a foreign and a domestic component. The external component
comprises the interest payments on the foreign debt less interest earned on
the Central Bank's foreign exchange assets. Domestic fiscal expenditures
effected through the Central Bank were the major source of the expansion of
the public sector's demand for credit in 1987, particularly credit for
housing and industrial finance through the public banks whose portfolio
recovery has been egregiously low. As noted already, the Central Bank has
long been used as a vehicle for granting distortionary subsidies to
selected interest groups while circumventing the budget process. The
Government made considerable progress in 1988 in checking these
expenditures and making them transparent by informing Congress of the



- 11 -
rediscount budget for 1988. As a consequence of this and other factors,2/
the quasi-fiscal deficit is expected to shrink in 1988 to 0.3 percent of
GDP from 4.7 percent in 1987.
34.      The Government intends to restrain Central Bank quasi-fiscal
expenditures in 1989, an objective supported by the Banking Sector Loan.
Under the program supported by the loan, the discretionary sources of
quasi-fiscal expenditures will be under control. Under this program, the
domestic component of the quasi-fiscal deficit will be virtually zero (a
slight worsening relative to 1988 because inflation is assumed to be more
uniform in 1989). However, a considerable worsening will be registered on
the external component of the deficit because of the increase in external
interest payments of the Central Bank. Consequently, the quasi-fiscal
deficit for 1989 is expected to reach 1.4 percent of GDP, contributing
substantially--unless offset elsewhere--to the demand for domestic credit
of the overall public sector (Table 1).
The Balance of Payments and External Finance
35.      The Government's balance of payments projections are for a current
account deficit of about US$2.3 billion in 1988 and about US$2.6 billion in
1989 (Table 2).   Exports, boosted by recent increases in prices, are
expected to reach US$10.2 billion in 1989, while imports are expected to
rise to US$6.4 billion because of the projected economic recovery in 1989
and some increase in imports associated with trade liberalization. The
notable improvement in the trade balance, rising from US$3.1 billion in
1988 to US$3.8 billion in 1989, is more than offset by the substantial rise
in foreign interest rates, which push interest payments up by US$1.1
billion. The projected current account deficit therefore is US$300 million
greater in 1989 than in 1988. Both years, however, are substantially
improved relative to 1987, when terms of trade losses and flooding cut
heavily into agricultural exports.
36.      The evolution of the capital account depends heavily upon the
success of ongoing discussions between the Government and its external
creditors. The Government has begun discussions with the IMF and the
commercial banks and expects to mobilize a conventional package in due
course; it also expects to request a Paris Club meeting as the latest
agreement only covers obligations due through June 30, 1988.
37.      The composition of capital inflows sharply changes in favor of the
private sector over the three year period 1987-89. This is because several
short-term obligations of the Government and the Central Bank (including
bonds, short-term credit lines and the like) are coming due in 1989 and
cannot be fully rolled over; and at the same time, the private sector has
experienced some success, especially through foreign direct investment aad
debt conversion in garnering more foreign resources. As a consequence,
2/ Among the latter is the effect of the sudden deceleration in inflation,
which results in high real interest rates on Central bank rediscounts,
as there is a two-month adjustment lag in the setting of nominal
interest rates on Central Bank domestic interest-bearing liabilities.



- 12 -
Table 2: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
1987    1988  1989
---------------------------------------------------------,---------__---
Exports (goods)                      6359    8855   10200
Imports (goods)                     -5800   -5800   -6400
Trade Balance                       5!9    3055    3800
Net Non-Factor Services              -348    -248    -227
Financial Services                  -4485   -5089   -6154
Of which: Interest                -4145   -4655   -5750
Current Account Surplus             -4282   -2283   -2581
Capital Account Surplus              1426    2454    2659
Direct Foreign Investment          -19      996     886
Multilateral Sources               733      364     850
IBRD                         700     329      617
IDB                           33      35      233
Bonds and Debt Conversion          -195    -380    -377
Of which: Debt Conversion      0    -306    -388
Other Capital                      -337   -1076     100
Commercial Banks                  1244
Additional Financing                       2550    1200
Net Reserve Change (--increase)      2856    -171      -78
Of which: IMF                      614      255     258
Memo:
Funds Available to Public Sector
as a share of GDP (2)              4.2      2.3     1.4
Source:----------------------Central----------------------Bank-------__-
Source: Central Bank



- 13 -
foreign finance to the public sector will be about 1.4 percent of GDP,
about one-third of its level in 1987. While this shift is generally a
welcome development, it has the adverse consequence of forcing greater
adjustment on the public sector if the Government wishes to minimize its
borrowing from domestic financial markets.
The Monetary Program
38.      The projected recourse to domestic financing of the overall public
sector deficit for approximately one percent of GDP in 1989 will rely in
part on use of credit whose counterpart results in money creation.  For the
program to succeed, the increase in money supply must be compatible with
the additional demand that the public will require. A further constraint
on monetary policy is also posed by the declared exchange rate policy, that
is expected to maintain a maximum differential between the official and the
free exchange rates not exceeding 25 percent, thus posing a limit to
domestic interest rates. The monetary program for 1989 (Annex Table 6) is
consistent with these dual requirements of the Plan Primavera.
39.      The sharp increase in the rate of inflation In 1988 precipitated a
further demonetization of the economy during the first eight months of the
year. Real Ml and M2 dropped to the lowest levels on record, as a
percentage of GDP. This reflected an attempt to limit capital losses on Ml
(which bears no interest), and generally negative real interest rates on M2
and other financial aggregates, reflecting to a certain extent the
unanticipated recent inflationary surge.
40.      Growth of money supply, on the other hand, was strong, the direct
or indirect consequence of the public sector deficit. As the operational
surplus of the government was insufficient to pay for the interest on the
external debt and arrears were building up, the contribution of the
external transactions of the private sector led to important increases in
money creation. And while the central bank has not been directly extending
credit to finance the central government's deficit since the start of the
Plan Austral in 1985, other avenues are open to increase money supply as a
result of operations with other entities of the public sector. Thus,
during 1988, a large amount of expiring government bonds could not be
rolled over voluntarily at reasonable interest rates, resulting in the
decision to monetize these obligations. Credit to the social security
system was increased, and another source of money creation came from the
quasi-fiscal deficit.
41.      The Central Bank can and did act to reduce the potential increase
in money supply by increasing forced investments and by issuing short-term
bonds to mop up liquidity. While this succeeded in reducing disequilibrium
in the money markets, the interest cost of conducting sterilization
operations is very high, and leads to further increases in the quasi-fiscal
deficit in the very short term. Thus, a necessary condition for the
restoration of orderly growth of monetary aggregates is a fundamental
reduction of the forces that lead to es ante expansion of the money base,
chiefly the public sector deficit. The measures envisaged in the Plan
Primavera are the basis for the 1989 monetary programs they foresee a sharp
decline in the public-sector-related sources of monetary creation; together
with the increase in the demand for M1 and M2 that can reasonably be



- 14 -
expected as a result of a sustained lowering of inflation, they are
consistent with the restoration of orderly monetary growth conditions, and
with a decrease in the need of the monetary authorities to issue short-term
bonds.
42.      Monetary management will nonetheless need to be strong, as many
uncertainties surround the outlook for the year. The foreign sector is
expected to continue to provide a strong source of money creation, as the
foreign exchange surplus of the private sectors is increased by the
improved trade performance. The resumption of cxternal interest payments
on the part of the central government will, however, act as a partial
absorption factor.   The restrictions on rediscounts, supported by the
Banking Sector Loan, will virtually eliminate that source of money
creation. Central Bank action might, however, be needed if it experienced
new difficulties in rolling over the outstanding government debt stock,
and, more fundamentally, if inflationary developments were to lead to a
lower-than-expected growth of money demand.
Performance to Date
43.      The Plan Primavera is now in its third month.  The plan has
registered a moderate success in reducing inflation and restoring a measure
of confidence in financial markets. The combined (wholesale and consumer)
inflation rate in August reached about 30 percent; this was the result of
sharp increases of wholesale list prices3/ just before the enactment of the
plan and the 30 percent increase in public enterprise prices. The
Government's successive agreements with industrialists to hold down prices
in September and October have contributed to a substantial slowdown in
wholesale prices; progress as measured by the Consumer Price Index was less
encouraging in part because beef prices continued to rise. On the whole,
the combined price index may rise by about eight percent in September.
44.      Wage settlements have been broadly consistent with the desired
reduction of inflation, although with diverging performances among sectors.
Wages in the public administration (except for military wages) and in the
public enterprises were kept at the targeted inflation rates in
August/September, and no increases were foreseen for October. In other
industrial sectors wage settlements have been higher, although the
Ocushion* built into the wholesale prices as a result of the early-August
hikes has probably left sufficient room for profitability for the
enterprises concerned.
3/ The wholesale price index in Argentina is recorded on the basis of
list, rather than actual prices. This fact is in part responsible for
the wide discrepancies experienced between the behavior of the CPI and
that of the WPI. These discrepancies have been particularly marked
during 1988.



- 15 -
45.      The strict monetary policy conducted in August and September,
together vith the anticipated declines in inflation, led to expectations of
high real interest rates, and helped spur a strong capital inflow that
contributed to the build-up of reserves of the Central Bank. The
announcement that the official exchange rate would be pegged at AS12
per US dollar for a period of two months, and that the free exchange rate
would not be allowed to go beyond a 25 percent limit, made investment in
austral-denominated assets yielding between 9-12 percent per month
extremely attractive. This policy has helped minimize imported inflation.
C. Progress on Structural Problems and Plans for Further Reforms
46.      The short-term macroeconomic program is complemented by a
foundation of continuing structural reforms affectings (i) public finance,
(ii) the financial system, and (iii) external trade. The pressure of the
external debt crisis, persisting short-term macroeconomic problems, and
strong political opposition has at times dealt setbacks to the reform
process, but the direction of change has been consistent. In the first two
of these areas important policy actions the Government has taken since
assuming office are summarized, followed by the measures the Government has
indicated it plans to take over the remaining year of its term. The third
area is the subject of this loan.
Public Finance
47.      The new constitutional Government assumed office without an
effective taxation system and, perhaps more important, without a budget
process. The budget process had not operated for years: private groups
were accustomed to negotiating 'bilaterally' with the Government or
specific agencies. Since the process had no mechanism for reconciling
competing claims on public resources, it had an inherent bias toward
deficit spending. Moreover, the military regime had embarked on several
costly low-return investment projects, symbolized by the nuclear power
program, which now can only be postponed or stopped at a high cost. There
was also a continued erosion of the base of direct and indirect taxes as a
result of the widening of the scope of the industrial promotion law.
48.      Perhaps the most important structural change is the adoption of
the principle of separation of the accounts of the central administration
from those of the institutional sectors traditiona;ly responsible for
deficit spending -- the provinces, the public enterprises, and the social
security system. For the first time, both the 1988 and 1989 budget are
built around clearly defined ceilings for these entities; this means no
transfers beyond the agreed revenue sharing for the provinces, transfers
amounting only to the payment of external interest payments for the public



- 16 -
enterprises, and no transfers for the social security system. This policy,
rigorously pursued4/ during this year, is expected directly to reduce the
demands on the central administration, and, through greater budget
responsibility, to increase the level of efficiency in the provision of
public services.
49.      The Government has reorganized the public enterprise sector's
policymaking and regulatory framework. Policymaking was transferred to the
appropriate ministries, and budgetary control was transferred to a
specially created holding company, the Board of Public Enterprises
(Directorio de Empresas Publicas--DEP). In addition to approving annual
budgets, DEP now monitors all public enterprise income and expenditures on
a bimonthly basis ard reviews monthly reports on contracted debt. The
Government enacted a 'demonopolizationg decree in November 1987, which
opened some areas formerly reserved for the state to private investors and
competitors. Finally, the Government intends to continue deregulation in
telecommunications, petroleum, gas, steel, and railroads; to continue
privatization efforts with planned sales of Aerolineas Argentinas, ENTEL
and ELMA; and to revise procurement practices to reduce the implicit abuy-
Argentina' subsidies.
50.      In its relations with provincial governments, the Government took
a major step forward to improving the accountability and transparency of
the provincial governments' finances in January 1988 by passing a new
coparticipation law establishing specific ceilings for access to federal
financing. Previously the provincial governments could rely on the federal
government for revenues, and, failing that, on borrowing from provincial
banks who could secure funding from the Central Bank via overdrafts and
rediscounts. The new law specifies a fixed division between national and
provincial revenues, increasing the share of revenues for provincial
disposition from 48 to 57 percent of coparticipated taxes. Any provincial
expenditures in excess of these revenues must be financed with provincial
taxes. Ending provincial bank overdrafts has also reinforced this fiscal
discipline.
51.      The deficits of the social security funds have widened over the
last two decades. The number of eligible pensioners has increased relative
to the workforce as the population structure has aged. Also, legislation
enacted in the :9709 extended coverage to workers previously not included.
In order to address these problems, new taxes are expected to restore its
financial balance of the system through 1989 and beyond.
4/ For example, the provinces are prevented from seeking additional
funding through the use of rediscounts with the Central Bank, a
traditional source of quasi-fiscal deficits. The policy has been
enforced through the shutting down of three provincial banks in late
1987 and early 1988, when they exceeded their overdraft limits with the
Central Bank.



- 17 -
S2.      Finally, other important recent developments affect revenues of
the public sector. First, the Congress in September passed the unified
industrial promotion law (discussed in Part II). Over time this will serve
to stem the fiscal drain of lost tax revenues due to industrial incentives;
the new law will also help improve resource allocation. In addition, as
noted the Government (with the assistance of the Bank) is embarking on
major efforts in tax administration and indirect tax reform to improve the
efficiency, yield, and equity of the tax system.
Financial system
*         53.      Unstable macroeconomic policies and performance have badly damaged
the country's financial system over the past two decades, culminating in
the mid-1982 collapse. The policy approach varied from a regime of strong
*         regulation (1973-75), to extreme interest rate liberalization and credit
allocation with loose supervision and easy entry (1977-82), and then back
to financial repression and reliance on the Central Bank for credit--partly
in response to the 1982 collapse, as well as to the Government's growing
fiscal needs. The present Gove.nment has sought gradually to move to a
more market-oriented system. Reflecting the continued macroeconomic
instability, the financial system is still plagued with high real interest
rates, large spreads, shallowness and segmentation. Moreover, several
public financial institutions, including most prominently the Mortgage Bank
(BHN), the National Development Bank (BARADE), and many provincial banks,
have eroded their capital base and thus become excessively dependent on the
central bank for credit. Several require substantial restructuring.
54.      The financial system contributes to the public sector's chronic
deficits by channelling disguised fiscal expenditures through the credit
system. In the past, the provinces' deficits have been partially covered
by loans from provincial banks; these in turn have financed themselves
through overdrafts and rediscounts from the central bank. Subsidies for
housing mortgages have partially taken the form of inadequate loan recovery
through BEN, whose operating deficits were covered by Central Bank
rediscounts. Similarly, subsidies to the industrial development bank,
BANADE, have been financed through rediscounts. Being unwilling to pay the
high real interest rates demanded by the financial markets for public
sector borrowing, the Government has relied heavily on high reserve
requirements and forced investments. In October 1987 authorities committed
themselves to reduce reserve requirements for additional deposits as part
of a liberalization program (including the end to administered interest
rates) that would relieve credit allocation distortions. However, the
Government was forced to raise marginal reserve requirements from three to
25 percent (by increasing them from three percent to eight percent and
instituting an additional compulsory deposit of 17 percent based on the
average of deposits in the prior two months) in the first half of 1988 to
curtail liquidity growth and to prevent a sharp rise in interest rates in
the course of funding the fiscal deficit.
55.      The Government has taken various measures to strengthen the
financial system since 1986. These includet ti) liberalization of interest
rates (1987); (ii) stringent regulations on loan portfolio classification,
provisions for loan losses, and interest accruals on doubtful loans
(1987-88); (iii) deposit insurance for all small deposits (1987);



- 18 -
(iv) improvement in regulation and supervision of banks, including their
portfolio, capital structure, and transparency to the public;
(v) liquidation of several insolvent financial intermediaries--most
importantly, sale of the largest private bank, the Banco de Italia, and
several branches of publicly owned banks (1984-87).
56.      Since most of these measu:es were taken within the last 18 months
in a context of instability, they have not yet made a substantial impact on
the sector's main problems. The Government, however, has indicated that it
will continue efforts to reform the financial system by taking the
following measurest (i) presenting to Congress a draft law to reform the
central bank charter to Increase its autonomy and to limit its power to
finance the public sector; (ii) strengthening prudential regulations (loan
portfolio classification and loan-loss provision) and the supervisory role
of the central bank; (iii) creation of an entity independent of the central
bank to administer liquidation of assets formerly held by bankrupt
institutions and now in receiverships (iv) reorganization of the major
public sector banks (e.g., BANADE and provincial banks) through
recapitalization, restructuring and progressive elimination of central bank
finance; (v) reform of the BHN through progressive elimination of central
bank finance and augmenting its nonretail (second tier) operations; this
would include improving cost recovery and provision of a new capital
structure with possible contributions from international organizations and
private pension funds. As long as the overall macroeconomic situation
improves, the Government's efforts to carry out further financial system
reforms would remove significant structural impediments to growth.
D. Medium-term ProsDects and External Financing
57.      If the Government's adjustment and stabilization program succeeds
and efforts at structural reforms persist, they will contribute to
unleashing the long-dormant productive potential of this resource-rich
country. After relatively slow growth in 1988 (1.5 percent), output could
expand at rates in excess of 3.5 percent for the 1989-95 period. This
assumes policy consistency and continuity, adequate external finance and
stability in international agricultural prices and interest rates.
Current Account
58.      Tbe recent drought in the United States is expected to boost 1988
agricultural exports to levels considerably above 1987.  Prices rose  in
the last half of June by 20-40 percent. Soybean exports are now expected
to rise more than 50 percent in value, while wheat export receipts are
projected to increase by 40 percent. Manufactured exports are also
expected to grow substantially on account of the favorable export
incentives and producers' response to divert sales away from depressed
domestic markets. Over the medium term, exports, stimulated by reforms of
the trade regime and the competitive exchange rate prevailing since 1986,
would play a leading role in economic growth, expanding by about eight
percent annually for the period 1988-95. Nontraditional exports would be



- 19 -
the driving force as they benefit most from the trade reforms supported by
the Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan and by the proposed Second
Trade Policy Loan, particularly from the introduction of an efficient and
fully automatic temporary admission regime, the reimbursement of individual
taxes and the removal of most export licenses and export taxes. However,
there is also some room for the growth of agricultural exports beyond the
growth of consumption in industrialized countries as Argentina's loss of
market shares in the recent past has mainly been due to supply factors.
59.      Imports, on the other hand, after expanding by about six percent
in 1989 in response to the trade reform and import demand accompanying new
growth in the economy, would grow annually by about six percent for the
period. This pattern reflects a growing openness of the economy to import
competition, manifest in a modestly rising ratio of imports to GDP. This
increase is of course also influenced by the outlook for external finance.
60.      This trade performance, together with a LIBOR rate of nine
percent, would produce some improvement in the current account balance over
the coming years, albeit slow. Over the next five years, the current
account deficit would decline to under US$1.9 billion as improvements in
the trale balance would be partially offset by interest payments on
increased indebtedness. Nonetheless, because the economy is growing at a
reasonable and sustainable rate, the ratio of the current account deficit
to GDP is projected to fall from about 3.2 percent to under 1.8 percent by
1993.
Saving and Investment
61.      To realize growth rates of 3.5 percent or more in 1989-95, both
private and public savings would have to increase from their present rates
of under 11 percent to over 16 percent in 1993. Increased domestic savings
rates are necessary to finance continued high levels of external interest
payments and increased domestic investment in productive activities. This
implies that reforms in the financial system have to be consolidated so as
to permit financial markets to mobilize and mediate savings efficiently,
that inflation must continue to decelerate and stabilize at a new low level
to make saving attractive, and that domestic income must grow to provide a
basis from which to generate savings. The public sector necessarily plays
a leading role in mobilizing new savings, for without concerted efforts, it
cannot fund its investment program and pay its debt obligations except
through relying on the inflation tax and/or inflationary domestic
borrowing.
62.      Higher domestic savings rates, together with foreign savings,
could provide the impetus for much needed new investment--investment which
is a sine qua non for expanded export potential. In the projection,
investment is seen to grow from about 13 percent of GDP in 1988 to approach
18 percent at the end of the period. Much of this would go to replace
badly deteriorated capital stock. Such improvements in both saving and
investment depend critically upon private sector confidence in the macro
and sectoral policy framework and the stability of these policies over
time. Exchange rates, trade and financial market policies are among the
most important in this regard.



- 20 -
External Finance
63.      One of the most problematic aspects of the medium-term outlook is
the availability of foreign finance. Even with improved trade performance,
projections indicate that amounts required from external creditors will be
substantial if the country expects both to grow and to service its external
debt over the next five years. The Government is discussing with the IMF a
new Standby Arrangement that would run through 1989. For 1988-89, the
Government will be requesting new money from the commercial banks equal to
roughly half of interest due. Serious discussions with the commercial
banks started in early October and it is the Government's expectation that
a new financing plan for 1988/89 will be in place by the end of this year.
64.      Putting together an external financing program is essential, and
without an active Bank role such a program may not materialize. The
economic situation in Argentina is at an important turning point and timely
international support is warranted. Extended delay in agreeing on an
external financing program might jeopardize the success of the program and
risk bringing about an outcome unfavorable to all creditors.
65.      The Bank is providing leadership with the clear expectation that
the Government of Argentina will fulfill its commitment, as stated in the
Letter of Development Policy, to reach an expeditious agreevdnt with
external creditors, particularly the IMF, before the end of the year. As
noted below, satisfactory progress on putting in place an external
financing program will be an important criterion against which to assess
macroeconomic performance.
66.      Over the medium-term, the projections suggest that even with
official net disbursements averaging US$700 million over the 1990.92
period, the country would need roughly US81.5-2.0 billion annually in
additional financing.
E. Macroeconomic Monitoring
67.      The Bank will undertake another macroeconomic assessment in early
1989. This would provide the basis for the release of the second tranche
of the Trade Policy Loan (US$150 million) and the first tranche of tne
amended Banking Sector Loan (US$200 million). The Bank would undertake a
further macroeconomic assessment in July 1989, which would provide the
macroeconomic basis for the second tranche of the proposed BSL (US$200
million). Both missions would consider progress on three aspects of the
program: external finance, policy actions, and economic performance.
68.      In addition to actions under the specific loans, the Government's
program includes several actions to improve the macroeconomic framework.
The most important actions are as follows:



- 21 -
-- Measures to achieve a nonfinancial public sector cash deficit of
1 percent of GDP, including both revenue-enhancing measures and
expenditure cuts. By December 31, 1988, the Government will
submit legislation to Congress to reform the value-added and
sales taxes so as to Lcrease revenues by 1.2 percent of GDP and
reduce allocative distortions with the intent of implementing
the proposed reform before mid-year 1989; and restoration of the
VAT to 18 percent (or equivalent tax) before January 1, 1989.
Specific improvements in tax administration will also be
undertaken. The Bank is working closely with the Government on
iosues of tax policy, and improvements in tax administration.
-- Limits on quasi-fiscal expenditures of the Central Bank,
including most importantly the rediscount budget, so as to
achieve a total deficit of no larger than 1.4 percent of GDP in
1989; as agreed under the Banking Sector Loan, this means that
new rediscounts granted (other than to the BHN) will be less
than total recoveries (amortization and interest) of previously
agreed rediscounts as well as specific ceilings on BHN
rediscounts conforming to financing commitments as of January
1988; also, reserve requirements are not to be raised above
their August 15, 1988 level while compulsory investments from
the commercial banks are not to be increased.
-- Execution of the fiscal and monetary programs described above.
Monetary aggregates would be consistent with the projected
increase in money demand, and with the Government's announced
exchange rate policy, continue to maintain a competitive
exchange rate.
-- Public utility rates will be adjusted so as to be consistent
with the fiscal targets for 1988 and 1989.
-- Transfers to provinces, public enterprises and social security
are not to exceed those contained in the program.
-- Progress on restructuring BHN, BANADE, Ferrocarriles Argentinos,
and improvement in public procurement according to agreed action
plans.
69.      Economic Performance.  In addition to these key policy areas, the
Bank will also closely watch the overall evolution of the economy over the
coming months. This entails an evaluation of the evolution of key prices
(e.g., the real exchange rate, wages, interest rates) as well as economic
performance (e.g. inflation, output, and balance of payments). The
Government has agreed that it will take appropriate adjustment measures in
consultation with the Bank if adverse developments occur. For example,
higher than anticipated inflation rates for the last quarter of 1988 would
require an immediate policy response since the monetary and fiscal programs
for 1989 are predicated upon a relatively moderate single digit monthly
inflation rate through the remainder of 1988.



- 22 -
F. Risks to the Macroeconomic Prosram
70.      The Bank's country support strategy contains three types of risks
that the program may fail; that the needed external financing will not be
available; and that implementation will only be partial.
71.      Risks to the Program.  The success of the program in the next few
months is subject to several risks. Real tariffs of public enterprises
have been eroded more than was originally intended because inflation in
September (and possibly October) will be higher than projected. Failure to
regain originally planned levels by the end of the year would jeopardize
the revenue and savings objectives for 1988 and 1989. Moreover, if
attempts to regain lost ground are delayed, the necessary corrections might
reignite inflationary expectations and trigger a price spiral. Similarly,
loss of confidence could also materialize if the real exchange rate were
allowed to appreciate significantly, as might happen if the official
exchange rate were used as an anti-inflationary tool and if inflation were
to turn out higher than expected. Capital inflows that have helped
remonetize the economy could just as quickly reverse with a waning in
private confidence. Conscientious macroeconomic management, vigorous
implementation and careful monitoring could attenuate these risks.
72.      External Financing.  Mobilizing adequate external finance for
1988189 in the current situation for Argentina will be difficult. With the
Bank's program firmly in place, it is important that the Government work
assiduously to bring other external creditors into the general framework.
The Bank will use its best offices to bring about a satisfactory outcome.
73.      Risks to Implementation.   It is alecs possible that the Government
may not be able to follow through with -he program; if adjustments are
needed, it may not be able to make the required adjustments. This is an
important risk in an election year. A related risk is that the new
Government which is expected to assume office in December 1989 may have a
quite different diagnosis of current problems and reverse the course of
some or all of the reforms.
74.      These risks are mitigated by the fact that political commitment to
this program has been given by the President of the Republic. Also
relevant is the considerable public awareness in Argentina and consensus of
the gravity of the fiscal situation, the need to control inflation, and the
Importance of international linkages to the growth of the domestic economy.
Moreover, opposition parties have an interest in inheriting a functioning
Government and a growing economy to manage. This may find expression in
the political campaign, and in any event will of necessity be thrust upon
any incoming administration, regardless of political persuasion.



- 23 -
PART It. TRADE POLICY IN ARGENTINA
Background
75.      Industrial import substitution in Argentina started as a response
to the interruption of trade flows during the Great Depression and the
Second World War. After 1945, however, successive Governments continued to
pursue the substitution strategy through import protection and export
controls and, since the early 19509, also through investment incentives.
The twin policies of insulation from the world market and of state-led
investment, while reducing the share of imports in GDP from .4 in the late
1920s to .1 from the late 19509 onwards, failed to promote satisfactory
rates of economic growth. Real GDP per capita increased at an average rate
of only 1.3Z between 1935139 and 1980184 while growing 3.42 in neighboring
Brazil and 2.6? and 3.22 in Australia and in Canada, respectively, two
countries that resemble Argentina's factor and resource endowment as well
as her pre-1940 per capita income. Prior to the debt crisis, Argentina's
investment efforts as well as educational coverage compared favorably with
those of industrial market economies. Her relative decline, therefore,
reflects an inefficient use of human and physical resources. The
inefficiency can be associated with the protracted reliance on trade
interventions and government guidance of domestic industrial activity
which, inter alia, tended to prevent investors from responding through
export diversification to the secular decline in the commodity terms of
trade; render impossible the realization of scale economies through
specialization; and stifle the competitive forces which underlie the
process of innovation.
76.      The Liberalization Attempt of 1976-81.  The economic policy
authorities progressively dismantled the protective barriers between 1976
and 1981. However, switching development strategies has turned out to be
precarious and beset with pitfalls. One lesson from the second half of the
1976-81 liberalization phase indicates that the exchange rate must remain
competitive. Between 1979 and 1981, the attempt to eradicate inflation
through preannounced exchange rate changes resulted in a 1002 real exchange
rate appreciation. The resulting damage to industrial capacity--a 25
percent loss of value added which has not been recovered since--was blamed
on trade liberalization as much as on the exchange rate policy, leading to
a complete reversal of both. The Peso was massively devalued in 1981. The
free trade phase came to an end with foreign exchange rationing in 1982.
The democratically elected Government, in December 1983, replaced foreign
exchange ratio with quantitative import restrictions (QRs) that came to
cover more than 70 percent of domestic manufacturing production. A second
lesson of the liberalization phase warns that reformers take heed of
interactions between foreign trade policy and domestic industrial policy.
When the average tariff rate was lowered from 98Z in 1976 to 22? in 1981,
the largely oligopolistic producers of intermediate goods were successful
in obtaining both investment incentives and special non-tariff import
protection from the industrial promotion regime. Rather than adjusting
their price strategies to import competition, they managed to reinforce
their positions and extend market control vertically and horizontally.
77.      A new initiative to integrate the industrial sector into the
international division of labor began in 1987. The new program was flanked
by a competitive real exchange rate, and it was graduated. In the first



- 24 -
phase, which was supported through a Bank Trade Policy and Export
Diversification Loan (TPL), the Government focussed on creating free trade
status for Argentine exporters, but it also removed a substantial number of
QRs. A thorough reform of the import regime was planned for the second
phase, to be followed by the deregulation of domestic industrial policies.
78.      The trade regime at the end of 1987 is shaped bys  (i) the tariff
reform of the 1976-81 period; (ii) the introduction of QRs in 1983; and
(iii) the implementation of the TPL supported reforms in 1987. In the
following description of the import regime and the export regime in 1987,
the TPL supported changes are highlighted. The description, however,
encompasses all components of trade policy so as to lay the ground for the
analysis of the measures of the second phase of trade reform which would be
supported through the proposed TPL II. For each component of trade policy,
the sequence of actions through the first and second phase of reform is
depicted in the Policy Reform Matrix (Annex IV).
The Import Regime in 1987
79.      Under national law, trade policy is one of the few areas of
Argentine economic policy-making in which the executive branch has
discretionary authority. The Government, therefore, tends to use trade
policy instruments also for non-trade objectives. This is reflected in a
structure of (i) base tariffs and quantitative import restrictions designed
to serve trade policy objectives; and (ii) a variety of import surcharges
and exemptions and of export taxes and export license requirements intended
to guide investments, raise revenues and support price policies. Under
international law, trade policy is bound by the country's status as a GATT
member and by the signing of the Tokyo Round agreements on technical
barriers to trade, customs valuation and import licensing procedures.
Argentina did not enter into the agreements on government procurement,
subsidies and countervailing duties, and on antidumping procedures.
80.      Import Tariffs.  The basic tariff structure without surcharges and
exemptions is characterized by: (i) a 01-38Z tariff band for import
positions that cover more than 951 of domestic production; (ii) average
tariff rates of 221 (unweighted) and 28Z (production weighted); (iii) a
structure of effective tariff protection that is skewed in favor of
textiles and of basic intermediates (paper, iron and steel, non-ferrous
metals, chemical substances); and (iv) a marked distinction between low
tariffs on non-competing imports and high tariffs on imports that compete
with domestic production. An across-the-board import surcharge of 15
percentage points was imposed under the Plan Austral and has resulted in a
15X-53Z tariff band for 95 of domestic production and a production
weighted average tariff rate of 43S. Tariff rates of up to 1151 are
applied to automobiles, motor vehicle bodies and tractors. In addition,
temporary tariff surcharges as well as tariff exemptions are applied under
the industrial promotion regime. The domestic producers of certain
electronic goods, in addition to a basic tariff protection of 531, have
since 1986 enjoyed a surcharge of 40 percentage points which is scheduled
to be reduced to 30 percentage points in 1988, to 15 percentage points in
1989 and to zero in 1990. The import of capital goods that do not compete
against domestically produced substitutes, on the other hand, is exempted
from import duties in all cases in which the investment is benefitting from
the industrial promotion regime (Decree 515).



- 25 -
81.      Quantitative Import Restrictions.  The Argentine import
nomenclature NADI (Nomenclatura Aranceleria y Derechos de Importacion),
recognizes 11,726 positions of which 11,219 describe industrial goods. QRs
are generated 'trough lists of NADI positions that are subject tot
(i) prohibitions for health and public safety reasons (covering mainly
pharmaceuticals); (ii) the import control of the General Directorate of
Military Industries (iron and steel); or (iii) a process of 'prior
consultation' with domestic producer associations about the need for
imports. In January 1987 the three lists among them protected 62.3Z of
domestic manufacturing production. During 1987 the Government
substantially reduced the production coverage of the prior consultation
list as part of the reform program supported by TPL. Particularly
important were the October 1987 removals of QRs on processed food, paper
*          and cardboards, and on synthetic fibers.  By December 1987 the proportion
of total production covered by the 5,021 NADI positions still on one of the
QR lists had come down to 36.8?, although the TPL Loan Agreement had only
requested a reduction to 52.3?. The Government abstained from imposing any
temporary tariff surcharges to which it would have been entitled under the
Loan Agreement.
82.      Import Licensing.  The removal of tariff positions from a QR list
amounts to a full liberalization only when the importation of goods is
subsequently automatic. In Argentina, a document called Sworn Declaration
of the Need to Import (Declaracion Jurada de Necesidad de Importacion -
DJNI) is required for all goods. By end-1987 the issuance of this license
amounted to a mere formality for 85 percent of tariff positions which were
not on a QR list. The commercial bank with whom an importer arranges the
foreign exchange also issued without delay the DJNI and only afterwards
informed the Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade (SICE) for
statistical purposes--a process which can be considered to be fully
automatic. For imports under the remaining 15 percent of tariff positions.
however, the importer had to file an application directly with SICE. The
Secretariat normally granted approval after about three working days, but
could reject or postpone the application in cases in which it suspected
foreign export subsidization or dumping or in cases of sudden import
floods. In these cases, the removal from a QR list implied only that
domestic producers' associations were no longer involved in the import
authorization process.
83.      Antidumping, Antisubsidy, and Safeguard Measures.  The Argentine
Customs Law ('Codigo Aduanero') recognizes the instruments of antidumping
duties, antisubsidy (countervailing) duties and safeguard measures and
describes procedures for dealing with applications by interested parties.
The antidumping and antisubsidy procedures are not consistent with the
respective Tokyo Round Agreements as they replace the investigation of
injury to domestic producers with the provision that injury has to be
assumed once the import price falls at least 15 percent below the average
local supply price. However, the administrative machinery for handling
applications for antidumping and countervailing duties as well as safeguard
measures has not been developed in Argentina. Domestic producers of
competing goods hardly missed the mechanism in times of a pervasive QR
protection which they could influence through the 'prior consultation'
process. Following the substantial reduction in the production coverage of
QRs in 1987, the Government has used discretion in the approval of import



- 26 -
licenses to deflect demands for an effective antidumping and antisubsidy
mechanism.
84.      Official Reference Prices and Specific Tariffs.  Until end-1987,
the customs valuation of all imports was based on the concept of a anormal
user price*. For goods with a production coverage of nearly 62 the normal
user price was established through an official price (precio oficial) which
was fixed in US dollars. For all other goods the Customs Administration
applied the complex valuation method of a so-called Customs Cooperation
Council which in effect amounted to variable reference prices. The
instrument of specific tariffs, though recognized in the Customs Law, was
not applied as it had been made redundant by the Customs valuation
practice. The Government signed the Customs Valuation Code of the Tokyo
Round and the Argentine Congress passed a law to modify the Codigo Aduanero
accordingly. Upon signing the Code, however, the Government explicitly
reserved the right to use specific tariffs after introducing valuation
according to the invoice, i.e. it held on to an equivalent protection
instrument. By end-1987 the Customs Valuation Code was not yet applied.
The EuPort Regime in 1987
85.      Temporary Admission Regime (TAR).  In early 1987 Argentina's
regime of admitting duty-free imports for export produces was highly
restrictive, excluding both capital goods and intermediates unless their
domestic supply price exceeded 302 or more of the C.I.F. import price.
Even for non-competing imports the system was not automatic but required a
case-by-case review by SICE. The 1987 reforms under the TPL supported
program established a comprehensive temporary admission regime with two
administratively distinct components. The standard TAR applies to
intermediates only, whereas the so-called ARGEX (Argentina Exports) allows
for the duty-free import of capital goods on the basis of a multiannual
export contract. Imports under the TAR are handled in the same way as
other imports, except that they are exempt from duties. TAR imports are
fully automatic only under NADI positions which have been taken off the QR
lists and for which SICE's discretion over the issuance of the import
licence has been removed. (See para. 47,. The additions to the standard
TAR in the second half of 1987 covered the hard core of chemical, paper and
textile intermediates, which had long been defended by local interest
groups. The 1987 import figures already show a remarkable response:
imports under the standard TAR have risen 1382 over 1986 (6.7? of imports
in 1987 compared to 3.4? in 1986). The participation in the ARGEX has so
far been minimal because the industrial promotion regime offers easier
conditions for the duty-free import of capital goods.
86.      Export Controls.  The export of nearly all primary commodities, as
well as of manufactured goods with a production coverage of 31?, requires
the prior authorization from one of a number of public agencies. Under the
program supported by TPL, the Government reduced the number of agencies
involved from 30 to 7, and established a joint one-stop-window process in
Buenos Aires for all agencies but the agency for grains. The process
reduced the cost of obtaining an export license but could not remove the
discouraging effect of a license requirement. Not all export controls,
however, reflect an anti-export bias. Sanitary and quality controls, for
example, support Argentina's continued access to export markets, while



- 27 -
other controls are required by international agreements which, inter alia,
impose voluntary export constraints. Argentine law, furthermore, restricts
the exportation of a number of defense and environment-related goods. Most
controls, though, establish an inefficient priority for domestic supplies
over export supplies which prevents Argentine products from penetrating
export markets. The controls serve, in effect, as complementary
instruments for domestic price policies.
87.      Export Taxes.  The Argentine Government has traditionally depended
heavily on revenues from export taxes on primary commodities. Under the
program supported by the Agricultural Sector Loan, agricultural export tax
rates have been limited to at most 702 of their Hay 1985 level resulting in
an average maximum tax rate of about 121. The average realized export tax
rate for primary commodities was 8.51 during the first eight months of
1987. For manufacturing exports the realized rate stood at 3.6Z during the
same period. Export taxes were particularly high on products of leather,
linen and cork as well as on cosmetics and chemical elements. During 1987
export taxes were removed for nearly 800 positions of the manufacturing
part of the export nomenclature. Yet about 950 positions with a domestic
production coverage of 152 remained subject to export taxation at the end
of the year.
88.      Indirect Tax Reimbursement and Subsidies for Exports.  A general
scheme for indirect tax reimbursement for non-traditional exports was
introduced in 1987. The Bank supported the scheme under TPL, and the
Government agreed to phase out the previous special export program (PEEX),
under which firms could qualify for direct subsidies on incremental
exports. The average realized rate of tax reimbursement (including direct
subsidies) varied markedly between export goods. During the first eight
months of 1987, the rate stood at .72 for primary products, .41 for
processed food, 1.6? for leather goods and 10.4? for the rest of the
manufacturing exports. Net of export taxes, the rate stood at -7.82 for
primary products, -3.92 for processed food, -8.0? for leather goods and
8.8? for industrial (as distinct from agro-based) manufactures.
89.      Export Financing.  Commercial banks offer export credits at
competitive rates (LIBOR plus a spread of about 21). The Central Bank
maintains rediscount facilities for pre-shipment and for post-shipment
export financing for a list of industrial goods that covers about 60? of
domestic manufacturing production. The credits are denominated in
Australes and indexed to the U.S. dollar. They were provided at subsidized
annual interest rates of 12 and 4? for, respectively, pre-shipment and
post-shipment before being raised to 4.5X and 6.5?, respectively, in
June 1988 and equalized at 8? in August 1988. Since 1981 rediscount uses
under these facilities have varied between 272 and 392 of industrial
exports reflecting changes in monetary policy.
Export Response to the TPL Supported Trade Reform
90.      Argentine exporters have been, until recently, remarkably
unresponsive to changes in the real exchange rate as well as to changes in
production capacity, domestic demand, real wages and costs of imports.
Since exporting requires a more than short-term commitment, domestic
producers evidently chose not to react to changes in conditions which they



- 28 -
perceived as temporary. However, the Government's continuous policy of
maintaining a competitive exchange rate for trade transactions since 1985,
and of introducing the free-trade status for exporters in 1987, is finally
producing results. The early indicator of increased TAR imports is
confirmed by recent quarterly figures of current dollar exports of
industrial manufactures. In the last quarter of 1987 and the first two
quarters of 1988 these exports surpassed those of the corresponding periods
of the previous years by more than 50Z. The figures indicate that
exporters are beginning to respond to the signals of the open trade regime.
Domestic Industrial Incentives
91.      Domestic industrial policy in Argentina is subject to fairly
detailed legislation. The core of the incentive regime is formulated in
the industrial promotion law 21.608, which codifies two sets of
incentives, one related to imports (tariff exemptions for imported
intermediates and capital goods and temporary tariff surcharges on
competing imports), the other to fiscal incentives (exempzions or
deferments of the valued added tas, the profits tax, the tax on net worth,
and the stamp tax). The incentives are provided for selected projects and,
once the investment phase has been completed, for between 10 and 15 years
of production of the promoted plant. The core promotion law is
supplemented by a set of laws and executive decrees which regulate the
distribution of incentives across provinces and sectors. The Secretariat
of Industry and Foreign Trade (SICE) applies the promotion schemes for the
so-called special sectors and for 18 provinces. Four provinces and the
Territory of Tierra del Fuego are subject to special industrial promotion
laws which entitle the respective Provincial and Territorial Governments to
grant exemptions from federal taxes and tariffs.
92.      The industrial promotion regime is costly both in terms of fiscal
revenues foregone and of economic distortions created. Not counting the
tax evasion inspired by the regime, the fiscal cost can be estimated at
3.52 of GDP. The economic distortions are particularly evident in the
massive relocation of plants between provinces in response to an excessive
variation in the effective subsidy per unit of value added between 272 in
the Province of Buenos Aires and 1002 in Tierra del Fuego, as well as in
the spread of low value added, assembly-type operations in the provinces
that are subject to special promotion laws which allow for value added tax
exemptions for the suppliers of promoted firms.
93.      The fiscal and the economic costs of the promotion regime tend to
constrain trade reform actionss (i) The foregone revenues are a prominent
source of the structural public sector deficit. The deficit, in turn,
creates a constant pressure for trade taxation, while its inflationary
impact invites expectations that the exchange rate might be used as a
stabilization instrument, thereby causing insecurity with regard to the
real exchange rate which tends to inhibit investments into export-orieited
activities. (ii) The excessive variance of incentives between regions
prompts firms to use their funds for defensive investments in the specially
promoted provinces rather than for attempts to capture the opportunities
created by the opening of the economy. (iii) The lack of transparency in
the allocation of tax benefits and the insufficient administrative control
over the compliance of promoted firms with their obligations invite
strategic market behavior. Incumbent firms, instead of taking their lead



- 29 -
from the relative price changes brought about by the trade reform, are
tempted to rely on their preferred access to the authorities in charge of
industrial promotion and to use the incentives to extend their control over
the domestic market.
94.      The Government has worked with the Argentine Congress on a new
unified industrial promotion lav that would address the above issues for
new project approvals. The acquired rights under the old regime, however,
which can last up to 15 years, would not be affected. The Congress passed
the new law on September 27, 1988. The Government expects the law to be
promulgated through executive regulatory decrees in the second half of
1989. The existing promotion regime, however, can be tightened through a
number of administrative beasures, and this would relax the constraints on
trade reform policy. The Government is undertaking such measures, to be
described shortly, as part of its trade reform program for 1988/89.
PART III. THE TRADE REORK PROGRAM IN 1988189
A. Proaran Scope and Loan Obiectives
95.      ScoPe.  The proposed TPL II operation takes account of the lessons
from previous liberalization attempts (see para. 42) by supporting a trade
reform program thats (i) includes administrative measures to tighten the
existing Industrial promotion regime; and (ii) is flanked by a program of
fiscal and monetary policy measures which would remove the basis for
expectations that, time after time, trade taxes would be used to compensate
for shortfalls in fiscal revenues and the exchange rate would be used for
the purpose of stabilization, thus randomly affecting the competitive edge
of domestic producers.
96.      Through the actions under the 1988/89 trade reform program, the
Government currently is implementing the second phase of its plan to
integrate the Argentine industrial sector into the international division
of labor, which constitutes a core element of its medium-term strategy to
start a self-sustained process of catching up with the proc-t*4iity level
of countries with a comparable factor endowment. The TPL-supported actions
during the first phase brought free-trade status for exporters,
particularly through an effective TAR and a system of indirect tax
reimbursements, and removed a substantial number of QRs. The program for
the second phase, while completing the reform of the export regime and
improving the control over domestic industrial activities, focuses on  the
exposure of Argentine industry to import competition. The detailed targets
and measures of the program are described Jn the Government's Sector Policy
Letter (Annex V) and are outlined and assessed in the following sections.
In addition, they are depicted in the Policy Reform Matrix (Annex VI).
97.      The Government's fiscal and monetary program as outlined in the
Development Policy Letter (Annex IV) and evaluated in Part I of this Report
would provide an acceptable framework for the proposed Second Trade Policy
Loan and for the Banking Sector Loan. Progress in its implementation would
be central to the Bank's evaluation of the macroeconomic policy stance upon
which the effectiveness of the Banking Sector Loan as well as the second
tranche release of TPL II, are predicated. For the tranche releases of
TPL II, furthermore, the macroeconomic policy stance would have to be



- 30 -
consistent with the targets of trade policy reform, which would include a
competitive exchange rate for Argentine exporters.
98.      Objectives.  The proposed loan would support a set of sector-
specific reforms to achieve the following objectives:
(i) the removal of non-tariff barriers to imports;
(ii)   the reduction and rationalization of tariff protection;
(iii)   the limitation of safeguard measures and anti-dumping and anti-
subsidy duties to the very short-term;
(iv)   the deregulation of industrial exports; and
(v) the tightening of the existing industrial promotion regime.
The indicators against which the achievement of these objectives is to be
measured are described in the following paragraphs along with the detailed
measures and their proposed timing. A summary in the form of a policy
reform matrix is provided in Annex VI. The matrix allows for an overview
of the sequence of measures for each of the objectives in both the TPL and
the TPL II supported programs.
B. The Action Proaram
Removal of Non-tariff Imvort Barriers and their Substitutes
99.      Quantitative Import Restrictions.  During 1987 the Government
reduced the production coverage of QRs from 62.31 to 36.86, which is about
15.5? percentage points lower than had been targeted under the first Trade
Policy Loan. In the Development Policy Letter to TPL the Government had
indicated that it would gradually reduce the production coverage of QRs to
an end-target of 20? by 1990. Meanwhile, the Government has accelerated
the QR removal program. In early 1988, the Government abolished the
control of the General Directorate of Military Industries over iron and
steel imports and it removed tractors and agricultural machinery from the
list of prior consultation with domestic producer associations. The two
measures reduced the production coverage of QRs to 30.2?. On September 21,
1988, the production coverage of QRs has been further reduced to 18.0?.
Prior to second tranche release, which is expected for early 1989, the
coverage would decline to 15.0Z.
100.     Import Licensing.  All imports under the about 11,000 NADI
positions without QRs will be fully automatic by second tranche release.
The import license will be issued without delay by the comercial banks
which will only afterwards inform the Secretariat of Industry and Foreign
Trade (SICE) for statistical purposes, i.e. SICE will no longer have
discretion over imports. Prior to loan effectiveness, this process of
fully automatic approval will be extended from currently 5,804 NADI
positions to 7,800 positions.



- 31 -
101.     Official Reference Prices and Specific Tariffs.  Since
January 1, 1988, the Argentine Customs Administration follows the Customs
Valuation Code of the Tokyo Round, i.e. all ad valorem duties are
calculated on the basis of the invoice.   Upon signing the Code, Argentina
reserved the right to apply specific tariffs (in US dollars), thereby
holding on to an equivalent protection instrument. The true reform content
of removing reference prices, therefore, can only be evaluated in
combination with the incidence of specific tariffs. As part of the TPL I1
supported program, the Government has agreed to limit specific tariffs to
NADI positions with a total production coverage not exceeding 7 percent.
This compares to the previous situation in which all goods were either
valued at fixed *official prices" or through a nontransparent procedure
for determining 'normal user prices".
Reduction and Rationalization of Tariff Protection
102.     Tariff Level.  The production weighted average of legal tariff
rates currently stands at 432. The Government will reduce this average to
302 prior to loan effectiveness.
103.     Rationalization.  Once non-tariff barriers are dismantled,
differences in the tariff levels become important sources of allocative
distortions. The Government, therefore, will rationalize the tariff system
simultaneously with the removal of non-tariff barriers. The
rationalization program has the following components:
(i) Tariff land. The tariff rates for NADI positions with a total
production coverage of 951 are currently situated in a 0-53Z
band. Prior to effectiveness, the Government will narrow the
tariff band to 0-402 and apply it to NADI positions with a
total production coverage of at least 97Z.
(ii) Maxi=um Tariff late. Prior to loan effectiveness the
Government will reduce the maximum tariff rate from 1151 to
50.
(iii)   Temporary Tariff SurcharEes.  The Government will not apply
specific temporary tariff surcharges other than those existing
for computer equipment, which will be phased out according to a
schedule which ends in September 1990.
Limitation of Safetuards.  ntidumPing and Antisubsidy to the Short-Term
104.     The demand of domestic producers for protection against sudden
import floods, as well as against alleged dumping and foreign subsidization
of exports to Argentina, can be expected to increase sharply following the
removal of both QRs and SICE's discretion over the issuance of import
licenses. The welfare argument in favor of such measures rests on the
temporary nature of the external disturbance--the producer costs of coping
with the disruption may swamp the consumer benefits that arise from
temporarily lower prices. The experience with safeguard, antidumping and
antisubsidy measures, however, shows that they tend to be perpetuated, thus
preventing the effi-ient adjustment of domestic producers to what has



- 32 -
turned out to be a shift in world market conditions. The Government,
therefore, has agreed to a time limit. After lasting for an accumulated
six months within a period of two years, any safeguard, antidumping or
antisubsidy measure is no longer considered temporary. Any such measure
would then either be discontinued or accomodated within the 152 ;.:oduction
coverage limit for QRs and the 302 limit on the production weighted average
tariff rate, i.e. it would replace the protection of other goods.
Deregulation of Extorts
105.     Temporary Adm.1.9sion Regime.  The two TARs for, respectively,
interme-diate and capital goods will be affected by both the trade reform
and the macroeconomic programs (i) The removal of QRs and of SICE's
discretion over the issuance of import licenses also brings full
automaticity for the TAR imports of all goods that are not covered by the
NADI positions on the remaining QR lists. (ii) The removal of tariff
exemptions for capital goods imports under a special decree within the
industrial promotion regime encourages the use of the TAR for capital
goods. (iii) The Government's decision to move all imports (including TAR
imports) to the free market exchange rate and industrial exports to either
the official rate (agro-based manufactures) or to the average of the free
market and the official rate (industrial manufactures) has temporarily
weakened the free-trade status of Argentine exporters. The macroeconomic
program stated in the Letter of Development Policy, however, is expected to
create the conditions under which the Government can accelerate the
transfer of all exports to the free market exchange rate which it has
announced for 1989. In addition, the Government has recently introduced
the Domestic Letter of Credit and has extended the TAR for intermediate
goods to indirect exporters.
106.     Export Controls.  Prior to second tranche release, the Government
will remove all industrial export controls that establish a priority for
domestic supplies over export supplies. The remaining export license
requirements or prohibitions will be those that are either explicitly
required by a law of the Argentine Congress or by an international
agreement or that serve to maintain sanitary and quality standards of
Argentine exports or to protect endangered species of the Argentine natural
habitat. These controls are acceptable as: (i) Argentine law refers to
defense related goods only, the flow of which is restricted on non-economic
grounds; (ii) the international agreements relate to voluntary export
constraints and to the multilateral fiber agreement, the adherence to which
constitutes the best course of action for the exporting country once the
agreement has been imposed; and (iii) the maintenance of sanitary and
quality standards tends to improve the access to export markets over the
medium term.
107.     Export Taxation.  In August 1988 the Government removed the export
taxes for 360 positions of ths export nomenclature (NADE). The production
coverage of taxes on industrial exports thereby came down from 15.1? to
12.2?. Prior to second tranche release, the Government will reduce the
production coverage further to 7.5Z.



- 33 -
Tlptentng of the Industrial Promotion Regime
108.     During 1987 and 1988, the Government took steps to tighten the
application of the general industrial promotion law 21.608 which includes
the special sector schemes as well as the industrial promotion schemes for
18 provinces (excluding Tierra del Fuego and four provinces with a special
legal status).  Through SICE as the authority of application, the
Government: (i) reduced by half the tax incentives for the production phase
of promoted projects by lowering the rate of tax exemption and the
promotion period; and (ii) increased the transparency of project selection
by making a new set of criteria public.  To counter the anti-export bias,
which results from the tendency to defensive investments in highly promoted
provinces, SICE explicitly included the export potential of a project in
the list of selection criteria. In August 1988, furthermore, the
Government abolished Decree 515 under which SICE had liberally extended
import tariff exemptions for capital goods to promoted firms. The removal
of Decree 515 has not only a beneficial revenue effect, but it also reduces
economic distortions by ending the discretionary power of SICE over this
instrument and by reducing the dispersion of effective protection. Due to
the above measures, which are supported through the proposed loan, the
fiscal costs of the SICE controlled part of the industrial promotion regime
are substantially reduced. Since, furthermore, indexed tax liabilities are
coming due for payment, revenues foregone in the SICE controlled part of
the industrial promotion regime are estimated to fall from about .82 of GDP
in 1987 to .3S in 1988 and to zero in 1989-93.
109.     With regard to the special provincial schemes, the Government has
removed benefits that were not explicitly required by the law, namely:
(i) the value added tax exemption for inputs purchased by the suppliers of
promoted firms; (ii) the indirect tax reimbursement for 'exports from the
Argentine mainland to the island of Tierra del Fuego; and (iii) t'Le special
reimbursements of up to 40? of the production value for deliveries of
promoted firms in the southern provinces (Patagonia) to Tierra del Fuego.
The fiscal savings are estimated at .3 percent of GDP. However, new
project approvals under the special provincial regimes as well as the
lagged revenue effect of previous approvals are estimated to over-
compensate these savings leading to a .2t of GDP increase in the fiscal
cost of the special provincial promotion regimes in 1988. The Government
can bring about a lasting decline in the aggregate costs of the industrial
promotion regime only on the basis of the unified industrial promotion law
which was passed by the Argentine Congress on September 27, 1988. Once
this law ha   -en promulgated through executive regulatory decrees, the
right of Provincial Governments to grant exemptions from federal or
coparticipated taxes will be eliminated. The fiscal savings, however, will
only materialize over the medium-term as the law will not curb the rights
which firms acquired under the old regime. In 1989-90, the law can only
prevent further cost increases.
110.     As part of the TPL IZ supported program, the Government will
implement a plan of action that serves the dual purpose of: (i) further
containing the development of costs under the existing promotion regime by
reducing the reputed massive tax evasion; and (ii) building the
institutional apparatus for an efficient application of a unified
industrial promotion regime as soon as the new law Is promulgated. Within
the program the Government will, prior to second tranche release:



- 34 -
ti) conduct, through the Tax Revenue Service (DOI), an audit of 400 firms
that claim tax benefits under the industrial promotion regime, to check the
compliance of these firms with the obligations (regarding fixed capital
investment, output and employment) they entered when accepting the
benefits; (ii) establish a joint information system for SICE, DGI and the
Secretariat of Finance on all promoted projects and on the promoted as well
as unpromoted activities of all firms claiming benefits under the
industrial promotion regime; (iii) build, within SICE, the institutional
capacity for effectively fulfilling the audit functions ascribed to it both
by the existing promotion law and, extended to all provinces, by the new
unified law as currently before Congress; (iv) make public, through a
decree or resolution, the criteria for the audit of promoted firms and for
decision making on the cancellation of benefits resulting from such audits;
and (v) prepare a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
cancellation of benefits to firms that have been found in violation of
their commitments.  These actions are expected to reduce the fiscal costs
of the promotion regimes further by about .2Z and .42 of GDP in 1989 and
1990, respectively.
111.     Technical Assistance.  A Technical Assistance Component (TAC) has
been designed to strengthen the Government's control of the industrial
promotion regime. Tne Government would: (i) hire external auditors which
would support the tax inspectors of DGI in the task of auditing 400 firms;
(ii) employ consultants for the design and implementation of a joint
information system on all promoted projects and firms, including the design
of an adequate computer configuration; (iii) employ consultants for the
training of the additional staff of SICE's supervision unit; and
(iv) purchase computing equipment for the joint information system and for
SICE's supervision unit. Details of the TAC are provided in Annex VII.
C. Related PolicZ Reforms
112.     Price Policy.  Periods of sLrong and weak controls of wages and
prices have alternated in Argentina since 1955, reflecting efforts to both
contain inflation and maintain the real income of organized labor and
special interest groups. Price and wage controls are linked to trade
policies. Import protection allows domestic producers to acquire some
degree of monopoly power which facilitates mark-up pricing. The domestic
producer has few incentives to resist wage demands, or to respond with
productivity enhancing adjustments, when protection allows him to pass cost
increases on to consumers. The Government is then tempted to control both
prices and wages. Having in effect assumed responsibility for income
distribution, it becomes exposed to the pressures from organized labor and
specific interest groups, and may try to pass the burden to unprotected
groups through a combination of price and export controls. With the
removal of quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, therefore, the
Government dismantles one important barrier to entry that sustains mark-up
pricing, and it obviates the rationale for price and wage controls in the
sectors that are opened to trade.
113.     Under the Plan Austral, the Government used temporary price
controls as a heterodox stabilization instrument, intended to break
inflationary expectations while orthodox monetary and fiscal policies were
to sustain stability. The controls have been unsuccessful as witnessed by



- 35 -
intermittent periods of price freezing and defreezing. Since the price
freeze of October 1987 deregulation has been progressing quickly. By
May 1988, price controls were applied to goods that accounted for only
12.5t of the consumer price index. The Government announced at that time
that all controls, except for pharmaceuticals, would be eliminated within
the year 1988. In addition, following the enactment of a new labor law in
January 1988, the Government moved out of wage negotiations in the private
sector. Under the Plan Primavera, the Government has abstained from
reinstating price and wage controls, but haa relied on voluntary agreements
with the Union Industrial and the Camara de Comercio that their members
would neither increase listed prices nor accede to wage demands that are
inconsistent with inflation targets. The Government has not strictly ruled
out the possibility of price controls should the voluntary agreements fail.
However, the Government has backed up its inflation policy by accelerating
the removal of QRs and the reduction of tariffs. Since September 21, 1988,
only 18? of domestic manufacturing production are protccted through QRs.
The tariff reform has been announced for October 21, 1988. Following
previous experiences with the practice of price controls, the authorities
can be expected to abstain from setting prices which would inhibit imports.
114.     Public Procurement.  The implementation in practice of the Compre
Argentina' law has come to restrict both import competition and domestic
competition. The provision obliging the public sector to 'buy national' at
'reasonable prices' is in practice used to keep out competing imports
through prior consultation with producer associations. Moreover, the
bidding and evaluation procedures are not sufficiently transparent to
ensure that the most competitive domestic bidder will be awarded the
contract. The system stimulates market sharing agreements and price
rigging, and it has deteriorated into another source of the public sector's
fiscal problem. In July 1988, the Government changed the regulations of
the *Compre Argentina' law with the result of increasing the competition
for incumbent domestic suppliers to the public sector by stiffening
conditions under which local suppliers can object to public sector imports,
and by providing better access for new domestic spppliers through a
transparent bidding process. The measure is partk of the comprehensive
public enterprise reform undertaken by the Government. A Bank Public
Enterprise Reform Loan is in preparation that would support policy changes
which would further enhance both import competition and domestic
competition for public purchases.
D. Macroeconomic and Social ImPact
Exchante Rate and Balance of Paiments
115.     Import protection creates an overvaluation of the long-term real
exchange rate and, through this mechanism, an anti-export bias. Other
taings being equal, it can be estimated that the lowering of import
protection brought about by the 1988189 trade reform program depreciates
the long-term real exchange rate by 4Z. Since the export supply response
lags behind the increase of import demattd, however, this depreciation would
not forestall a transitory deterioration of the trade balance which can be
estimated at US$300-350 million. The relative modest estimate of the trade
balance effect reflects the fact that the exchange rate adjustments since
1985 have already eroded the significance of QRs as a protective device.



- 36 -
The transitory trade balance effect would have to be met bys (i) a cut in
domestic absorption; (ii) external financing; (iii) reserve financing;
(iv) an additional exchange rate depreciation; or (v) a combination of
these measures.
116.     In the context of the Plan Primavera, imports were moved from the
official to the free market exchange rate resulting in a strong initial
depreciation of the real effective exchange rate for imports that
overcompensated for the appreciation in July which was due to the
accelerated inflation. It is expected that this depreciation will not be
fully eroded by domestic inflation oaer the coming months. (See Table 2 of
Annex VIII.) The Plan Primavera insofar appears to be consistent with the
trade reform program. By continuing to transact exports at the official
rate (except for 50? of the receipts from industrial manufactures exports
that can be exchanged at the free market rate), however, the Government has
imposed an implicit export tax. If permanent, such an export tax would
tend either to deteriorate the trade balance or lead to a further
depreciation of the real exchange rate. However, the Government has
committed itself publicly to transfer all export transactions to the free
market rate before the end of 1989, and to start the process in April 1989.
The gradual unification of exchange rates for trade transactions is
reflected in the fiscal program for 1989.
Fiscal Implications
117.     The fiscal savings generated by the tightening of the industrial
promotion regime have been estimated at .8S and 1.02 of GDP in 1989 and
1990 respectively. The increasing import volume due to the trade reform
program can be estimated to yield additional tariff revenues of about .15Z
of GDP in 1989. In the following years, a industrial exports respond to
the reduced anti-export bias of the trade regime, the import volume can be
expected to grow more vigorously allowing for additional tariff revenues of
more than .5Z of GDP. Despite the reduction of the production weighted
average tariff rate by 13 percentage points, the realized tariff rate is
expected to fall by only 3 percentage points as tariff exemptions are
removed and the import weighted is reduced less than the production
weighted average tariff rate. This would reduce tariff revenues by about
.25? of GDP. The whole program, including the tightening of the promotion
regime, would then yield additional revenues reaching 1.252 of GDP in 1990.
Social Impact
118.     The Government's program for trade reform is reversing the
traditional policy of insulating the industrial sector from the world
market, and it initiates a move out of the pervasive regime of state-led
investment. Protracted reliance on these policies has caused Argentina's
real per capita income to decline relative to all but a few countries in
the world and, over the last decade, also in absolute terms. The decline
has fallen disproportionately on families that rely on labor income, social
security transfers and the availability and quality of public services.
Trade protection has come to favor capital-intensive industries over labor-
and skill-intensive industries, thus reducing labor demand. The regimes
for industrial promotion have greatly strengthened the capital-intensity
bias and have, in addition, induced a process of disintegration through



- 37 -
which the share of both labor and capital in the value of production
declined. The policy of industrial promotion, in particular, has
contributed to a crisis of public finance which, in turn, has caused an
erosion of real social security transfers and a deterioration in the public
provision of social services such as health and education. The determined
execution of the proposed reform program will be the most important
contribution the Government can make to improve the well-being of the
working poor, the pensioners and those that depend on the public provision
of social services.
119.     Real costs of adjustment, however, are unavoidable for the workers
of those firms that will prove unable to survive in an environment of
increased competition and reduced government support. Their smooth
transfer to expanding firms or new firms cannot be assured as displaced
workers will have to compete on the labor market with the unemployed and
the underemployed. Aggregate labor demand can only be expected to rise
after the structural reforms have succeeded to lead the economy to a higher
growth path.
120.     The democratically elected Government introduced, as one of its
first measures, a food supplement program and a drug assistance fund for
the benefit of about 1.4 million needy families. Both have turned out to
be low-cost and efficient anti-poverty instruments which may also be used
to support the families of displaced workers. In addition, the efficiency
of the public supply of health, housing and education services could be
improved. A recent Bank Country Study ('Argentinas Social Sectors in
Crisis", June 1988) found that better targeting as well as cost recovery
from those who can afford to pay would go a long way in expanding the
provision of these services to those in need. The Bank is assisting the
Government to address the issues through the Technical Assistance Loan for
Social Sectors Management.
PART rv. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan History
121.     The proposed loan builds on the Trade Policy and Export
Diversification Loan (TPL) which was approved in May 1987. TPL supported
the first phase of the Government's trade policy reform program with a
strong focus on improving export competitiveness. The second phase
initially was envisaged to consist of a gradual elimination of non-tariff
barriers over a three-year period. The momentum created by the successful
implementation of the first phase, however, encouraged the Government to
accelerate the reform program.   The Government and the Bank entered into
an intensive dialog on the reform of the industrial policy framework that
covered the regulatory framework and the incentive regimes for both foreign
trade and domestic industrial activity. This is reflected in the structure
of the Second Trade Policy Loan which focuses on import liberalization but
has, in addition, strong components for the support of a further
deregulation of the export regime and for the tightening of the industrial
promotion regime. The TPL was appraised in April/May 1988. Negotiations
were held in Buenos Aires in August 1988. The Argentine delegation was led
by Mr. Ramon da Bouza, General Director, Ministry of Economy.
Supplementary loan data are provided in Annex III.



- 38 -
B. Loan Amount, Borrower and Implementing Agency
122.     A loan of US$300 million is proposed in support of the significant
advance the Government has been making in the reform of the trade regime.
The loan would be quick disbursing except for the technical assistance
component of US$2.35 million. The borrower would be the Republic of
Argentina; the implementing agency would be the Ministry of Economy.
C. Letter of Development Policy and Letter of Sector Policy
123.     The basis for the loan is provided by a Letter of Development
Policy (Annex IV) and by a Letter of Sector Policy (Annex V) in which the
Government declares its commitment to adopt and implement the reforms
described above. The Letter of Development Policy states the Government's
macroeconomic and medium-term adjustment program, whereas the Letter of
Sector Policy details the objectives and measures in the area of trade and
industrial promotion.
D. Tranche Release, Disbursement. Procurement and Audit
124.     The quick-disbursing component of the proposed loan would
essentially be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of
US$150 million would be available upon loan effectiveness. The conditions
of effectiveness call for, inter alia, a consistent macroeconomic policy
framework; the reduction of the production coverage of QRs from 36.8Z to
18.0?; and the reduction of the production weighted average tariff rate
from 43? to 302. (See Annex III.)
125.     The release of the second tranche is projected to take place about
early 1989 after loan effectiveness following an exchange of views with the
Government. The release would be contingent upon, inter alia, a consistent
macroeconomic policy framework and progress in the macroeconomic program
stated in the Letter of Development Policy, satisfactory to the Bank; the
reduction of the production coverage of QRs to 15.0X; the reduction of the
production coverage of export taxes to 7.5?; the removal of most industrial
export licenses; the audit of about 400 firms benefitting from the
industrial promotion regime; and an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
for dealing with firms that are found to be in violation with their
commitments under the industrial promotion regime. (See Annex III.)
126.     The loan (excluding the technical assistance component) would be
applied to 100? of the c.i.f. costs of eligible imports. Eligible imports
would be all goods except those normally excluded under Bank policy-based
lending, such as alcohol, tobacco, and armaments, goods financed by other
Bank loans or from other official multilateral and bilateral sources.
Retroactive financing up to 20? of the loan amount from July 1, 1988, would
be permitted. The remainder of the loan (US$2.35 million) would be
disbursed against expenditures under the technical assistance component for
consultants' services and the purchase of equipment. (See Annex VII.)
Disbursement of this latter part of the loan would be independent of
tranche releases but would be completed before June 30, 1989.
127.     Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. Contracts estimated to cost US$5 million or more each, will be



- 39 -
procured through international competitive bidding. Contracts under
US$5 million each would be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement
practices of the purchaser. Goods in the context of the Technical
Assistance component which are estimated to cost US$250,000 or more each
will be procured through international competitive bidding, whereas goods
costing less than the equivalent of US$250,000 may be procured on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Prior review would be carried out by the Bank in all cases of
international competitive bidding as well as in the first case of local
competitive bidding in the context of the Technical Assistance component.
Consultants to be financed with the proceeds of the loan will be employed
in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the
'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.  All
disbursements would be made against a statement of expenditures to be
submitted by the Central Bank (IBCRA). Also, BCRA is expected to undertake
the screening process to ascertain that the above conditions have been met
and to request disbursement of the loan on the basis of documented import
payments from the coamercial banks.
128.     BCRA will be responsible for maintaining separate accounts to
record and monitor loan disbursements and repayments. All records and
accounts related to expenditures financed under the proposed loan,
including those for statement of expenditures, would be audited each year
in accordance with sound auditing principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Bank staff would periodically review the accounts.
S. Monitoring and Reporting
129.     The proposed loan would require monitoring of both the
macroeconomic program described in the Letter of Development Policy and
the implementation of the specific trade reform actions described in
part III of this report. The Bank will monitor the macroeconomic program
and the trade reform program through regular supervision and exchange of
views with the Government. Since supervision of the macroeconomic program
would also be required for the Banking Sector Loan, the Bank would
coordinate the monitoring activity for the two loans. Prior to second
tranche release of TPL II, which is expected for March 1989, the Government
will prepare a detailed report covering all specific actions under the
trade reform program. This report will provide input for a mid-term review
which, jointly with an update of the January 1989 review of the
macroeconomic program, would form the basis for the release of the second
tranche of the loan. The Government and the Bank have agreed on the
production weights for tariff positions which are required for calculating
the production coverages and the production weighted tariff average.
F. Benefits and Risks
130.     Benefits.  Opening the economy, modernizing the state and
deregulating markets are the interdependent elements of the Government's
strategy. Though success is not assured, it can be said safely that there
is no alternative strategy that could achieve both economic stability and
sustained growth, thus ending the pattern of wild fluctuations around a
declining trend of relative income. The trade reform program, which would



- 40 -
be supported by the proposed loan, is central to the strategy as it
unshackles the industrial sector from internal and external constraints and
from distorting incentives to allow it to compete efficiently in the world
market. The program would generate further benefits: (i) industrial export
supply is expected to respond strongly to the further reduction of the
anti-export bias of the trade regime and the industrial promotion regime,
and this would reduce the economy's dependence on highly volatile world
commodity markets; (iii) industrial labor demand can be expected to grow
over the medium-term as the strong capital intensity bias of import
substitution is redressed and as export activities increasingly reflect the
comparative advantages of the country in more labor- and skill-intensive
operations; (iii) the productivity of investment will increase as the
industrial sector responds to foreign competition and as technology-
intensive imports become freely available.
131.     Risks. The success of the reform program hinges upon the
Government's perceived credibility to sustain the policy changes. Should
the private sector conclude that the reforms will be short-lived,
speculative imports, a faltering export supply response and intensified
efforts at tax evasion through provincial regimes might force the
Government to abandon the program. Private sector confidence could be
jeopardized by (i) an appreciating real exchange rate for trade
transactions; (ii) an unsustainable macroeconomic policy situation,
particularly with regard to the public sector deficit; (iii) a perceived
inability to mobilize external financing; (iv) political risks in the
context of upcoming elections as the Government might be tempted, when
dislocations in import competing sectors become more severe, to yield to
the pressure of management and labor in affected industries to reverse the
import liberalization or use industrial promotion for rescue operations;
and (v) adverse external developments. There are, however, significant
elements in the Government's program and the design of Bank assistance
which reduce these risks.
132.     The Government's most important asset is that it has been able to
build credibility in the area of trade policy. Since 1985, the Government
has maintained a competitive exchange rate for trade transactions. The
Government has, furthermore, implemented the 1987 program ahead of
schedule, and it has, in the case of the steel industry, visibly
demonstrated its skill in dealing with powerful special interests.  The
Government's credibility would, furthermore, be greatly enhanced through
the proposed TPL II and the Banking Sector Loan as well as the fiscal
reform program that is complementary to the two loans, and would be
strengthened by a Technical Assistance Loan for Tax Reform that is
currently under preparation.  These loans would demonstrate to the private
sector that the Government has a sound program of policy reforms which
address the core issues of Argentina's structural problem.
133.     The domestic risks, furthermore, are reduced by:  (i) the
Government's commitment to move all exports to the free market exchange
rate, starting the process in April 1989 and completing it before the end
of 1989; (ii) the Government's increasing determination and demonstrated
actions to reduce the combined public sector deficit; and (iii) the general
acceptance, by all political parties, that the strategy of import
substitution has run its course.



- 41 -
134.     The external risk would consist of a new downturn of commodity
prices, an international interest rate hike and increased protectionism in
industrial export markets. Current expectations, however, are for strong
grains and soybean prices and, at a later stage, beef prices because of the
ser'ous drought in the USA. These increases are projected to compensate
two thirds of the increase of US$1.1 billion in interest payments expected
for 1989 that is due mainly to increased interest rates on foreign debt.
The risk of protectionist measures against increasing industrial exports
from Argentina is real. Argentina's GATT membership, the application of
the customs valuation code aadd the replacement of export subsidies under
PEEX by a GATT consistent indirect tax reimbursement scheme, however, have
enhanced the Government's position for addressing possible protectionist
moves.
PART V - BRNK GROUP OPERATIONS
135.     To date, the Bank has made 38 loans to Argentina, totaling
US$4,030.2 million (net of cancellations), $1,427.8 million of which is
undisbursed. The volume and composition of Bank lending have gone through
wide swings due to periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties. Bank
lending since 1985 has amounted to an aggregate of $2,344.0 million and has
focused upon the development of the hydrocarbon and power sectors; support
of structural and sectoral reforms in trade, banking and agriculture;
assistance in improving public sector and social sector management; support
of port development and municipal development; and the provision of lines
of credit for agriculture and small-scale industry. The implementation of
Bank-assisted projects has suffered from cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures, curbs on public investment stemming from fiscal austerity, and
the private sector's reluctance to invest in an uncertain economic
environment. In response to these constraints, the Government upgraded its
surveillance of implementing agencies and restructured several projects to
improve their execution. The Bank has also instituted procedures for
monitoring monthly disbursements and for periodic project implementation
reviews with the Government. As a result, disbursements under Bank loans
trinled in FY87 as compared to FY86, when they stood at $150.9 million, and
increased to $874.9 million in FY88, i.e. by 73 percent as compared to
FY87.
136.     IFC has made investments in 22 companies in Argentina, totaling
USS 582.9 million, of which US$ 133.6 million is undisbursed. Promotional
efforts are geared to export or import substitution-oriented projects, with
emphasis on oil, petrochemicals a-id related sectors, and agroindustry. IFC
will also continue to seek investments in projects in which its presence
would facilitate the formation of joint ventures with foreign participation
and act as a catalyst to attract higher levels of commercial financing.
137.     Over the past two years, the Government and the Bank have been
working together very closely on a broad range of economic and sectoral
issues. In March 1987, the Government and the Bank agreed on a "Business
Plan0 which outlined the objectives and strategies of sectoral reforms
combined with an action program, and identified possibilities for a
companion program of Bank assistance. This set the agenda for sectoral
reform, which has been adhered to by the Government, has continued to guide



- 42 -
the Government's reform activities, and has led to several Bank supported
sectoral reforms.  The Letter of Development Policy circulated by the
Government on September 22. 1988 confirms and reinforces this agenda of
structural reforms.  Significant progress has already been achieved in
rationalizing the export regime, which the Bank has supported through the
Agricultural Sector loan and the first Trade Policy loan, as well as the
Second Agricultural Credit loan.  In parallel, the Government has initiated
a reform of the banking sector, which is a pre-requisite for the success of
Government efforts to modernize the real sectors of the economy,and which
has also been supported by a Bank loan. An important complementary step to
the reform of the trade regime in rationalizing industrial regulation has
been taken with the congressional approval last month of the industrial
promotion law. Reform of the public sector is an essential element in
modernizing the economy. This has begun with the analytical and
institution-building work undertaken under the Technical Assistance loan
for Public Sector Management (TAPSM). The recently approved Technical
Assistance loan for Social Sectors Management will help to prepare and
initiate the carrying out of reforms in the social sectors. Rationalizing
the finances of provincial and municipal governments is also an important
objective, which has been supported by the recently approved Municipal
Development loan. It will help to strengthen the financial management of
provinces and municipalLties, and focuses on the municipalities' capacity
to plan, finance, and fxecute cost-effective investment programs and to
recover their costs. she Bank conducted economic missions to discuss the
adjustment policy fraitework and environment in March and August 1988. The
objective was to provide analysis for the Government to take into account
in preparing its 1988-89 macroeconomic program. These missions also
provided the basis for the Bank's view of the macroeconomy. While the
Government-Bank policy dialogue is intense, reform takes time, and the Bank
will continue to work with the Government in implementing these
adjustments.
1S8.     The Bank's assistance strategy for Argentina aims at supporting
the country's key macroeconomic and sectoral reform programs, including
fiscal reform. It includes both economic and sector work and lending
operations in support of Argentina's development objectives and of its
medium-term economic recovery and structural reform program. The Bank is
planning to continue lending to Argentina at about the $1 billion per year
level, predicated upon the continued implementation of the structural
reform program outlined in Part I above. To this end, the Bank is
programming economic and sector work with a strong operational orientation.
Sector work will concentrate on financial, agricultural, industrial,
regional decentralization, provincial finances, and environmental issues.
In support of our work program, the Bank will continue to promote the use
of UNDP funds, and will continue to seek cofinancing opportunities, and
further cooperation with the IDB as well as with Japan, Italy, and Spain,
in particular, is expected.
139.     The Bank's lending efforts would be directed at addressing the key
reform programs in Argentina. (a) Trade Liberalization and Export
Diversification: The proposed Second Trade Policy loan would build on the
substantial achievements of the first, and should enable the Government to
establish a competitive framework for the industrial sector. (b) Financial
System Reform: Implementation of the Banking Sector loan, for which an
amendment is proposed to the Board, will help to continue the efforts



_ 43 -
already undertaken by the Government in this area, and should be followed
by further banking sector loans aimed at helping to restructure some of the
major public banking institutions. In addition, the Bank will study
specific financial problems of the provinces, in the expectation that this
would lead to a loan in support of provincial structural changes and
investments. (c) Public Sector Rationalization: The Bank is supporting
Government plans to rationalize the public sector through support for
policy changes, restructuring of certain public enterprises and the
provision of technical assistance, which should lead in the near future to
a Public Enterprise Restructuring loan, to a social sector investment
project, as well as to sector loans in health and education. The proposed
Housing Sector loan is directed at rationalizing the Government's role in
housing construction, better targeting subsidies to the needy, and reducing
inefficiencies in construction operations, and further municipal
development loans are expected. Finally, the Bank will assist the
Government in a major effort to improve the efficiency, yield and equity of
the nation's tax system through a technical assistance loan which is
expected to be presented for Board consideration in FY89. (d) Industrial
Development: Industrial modernization and restructuring projects are in
preparation, which should enable Argentina's industry to take a competitive
position in world markets. (e) Energy Development: Work on a new
generation of sector loans in power and hydrocarbons has begun, with the
proposed Electric Power Sector loan, which should be followed by further
energy sector loans. The program also envisages support for infrastructure
development through investments in areas such as transport and water
supply.
PART VI. COLLABORATION VITH THE DMF
140.     The Bank will continue the collaboration that it has followed with
the IMF in the previous stages of this project. There have been detailed
discussions with Fund staff on Argentina's trade policy performance in the
context of the TPL and on the proposed loan. The Bank will also pay
special attention to the findings and position of the IMF when reviewing
macroeconomic performance for loan effectiveness and second tranche
release.
PART VIr. RECOMMENDATION
141.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan wruld comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Attachments
October 3, 1988                                 Barber Conable
Washington, D.C.                                President



- 44 -
neou Table 1:  AMOETiD  - KEY eCOIC ICDICATOrs
Papuletion:                  S196l9
iON (MP Poe CP ito                     268t
Actuet                                                 Projected
1965.       19          1967        1908         199        1990        1991        1902         199S
trowth ibteo (percent).
GOP                                              -4.4         5 4         1.6         1.S         3.2          3.7         3.7         3.6         S.t
Otf                                              -4.8         8.1         2.3         1.6         2.9          3 8         4.0         3.9         4.1
@f per cepIts                                   -4.7          7.0         0.4        -0.3          1.1         2.9         2.1         2.1         2.2
Private C _n tinh per ep7te                      -8.S         7.1         1.6        -2.5        -1.0          1.5         0.8         1.2          1.3
bt0t Indimctor. a/
ifS  OLT  (M illion WA5t)                      46019        52866       s207e       57206       57622        59555       61s6        62911      636
IW Credit Outatenol;na (Milliion USI)          2180        27i0         3946        4201        4459        4459         4459        4459        4459
Total OW 1t. incl. tlF (M llion US1)          50199       s55e0        S6022       61407       62261       64014        46111       61370      S6JS2
OII lLT/Emporte as (1)                         468.8        606.?       621.3       520.2       459.7        466.4       437.9       410.0       362.0
Om0 LT/Current MP (1)                           74.3         79.7        78.7        79.2        74.5         71.2       6t8.3        64.7        61.0
Debt  ervice (Hi II ton US.)                   9444        5397         5926        66m0        6157         6429        7SO         7875        9210
Debt see-.co/Curront CDP (O)                     I,.6         6.1         8.6         9.2         7.9          7.7         6.3         6.1         68 
Dbt servico/E ports 05 (t)                      92.2         61.9        70.7        60.7        46.9         80.3        53.8        51.3        55I1
tntero,t tfLt (HilIion USt) b/                 480t        3862         4148        4742        5450        5214         5680        6114        6498
t     nterst oIST/Espoete as (t) b/             46.9        42.6         48.2        41.9        42.4        39.9         39.2        36,9        36.6
tt.rtet HLY/Current (VP (U) b/                   7.4         s.e          6.0         6.6         7.0         6.2          6.3         6.3         6.2
National Account  fit of Constant CDP:
Investment                                      10.5         11.8        13 1        12.5        14.4         14.9        16.0        16.6        17 6
iastic Savings                                   17          14.6        13.6        16.3         16.9        16.9        20.3        23.4        22 4
Ntionel Sevings @1                               9.2          9.0         8.3        10.7         12.7        13.3        14.7        15.7        16.6
Public Investent                                 5.2          4.9         4.6         4.8         4 S          4.5         5.3         S.5         5.5
Pubic National Savings d/                        2.1         0.7         -2.2        -1.1         0.4          2.0         2.4         2.6         3.0
Private Investment                               s.3          6.9         6.3         7.7         9.9         10.4        10.7        11.3         12 1
Private Natonal Sa.lnga                          7.0         8.3         10.S        I1.8        12.3         1t.3        12.3        13.1        13.8
Puble)lPrl.oto lnvneteent                       0.96         0.71        0.6S        0.62        0.45         0.40,       0.49        0.49        0.45
Exteroal trde Indicatetr (percent):
Grain osporte rest growth rnte                   19.4       -30.3       -31.1        25.0         7.7          2.5         2.5         2.S         2.5
iEprt ONFS reel growth roote                     12.5       -10.0       -13.3        14.4         7.3          6.0         5.9         4.9         4 9
berte of OS/Cur,ent CDP                          15.6        13.1        12.2        15.2        16.2         15.3        15.6        15.8        I6.0
lepOrt 0F  reel growth th ret.                 -14.4        21.1          4.5        -9.0         5.7         6.1          7.0         6.6         6.7
Importe of 095/Curront UOP                       9.1         10.8        U.9        t1.3         11.6        11.3        11 4        It.4        1t.4
Current Account (NI II Ion UN5t)                 -953       -2656       -4266       -2284       -2561        -2394       -2224       -2116        -1864
Current Account/Current ODP                      -1.5        -4 3        -6 2        -3.2        -3.3         -2.9        -2.5        -2.2         -I 8
Interest Coverage Ratio                         64.8        36.3          5.0        59.2        62.1         61.4        6s.3        67 5        70.8
Torus of Trade Inde. (1960 - 100)               94.7         89.9        90 7        96.7        99.5         94.5        97.4       100.3        t03.4
Source: LA4C
a/ Nadiuo and Ltng Term Dbt and relevant ratioe inelude preumed lon. t            inancing gape.
b/ Date on tfLT interost payent from thlo Central  8enI of Argentin.  It includs IF i;nterest.
c/ tieludo  current trensfo,.
4/ National account basis.
04-Oct-se



- 45 -
PAnua  Table 2:   MWVQk - ALAMCE OF P*IS04
Actual                                                      Projacted
195         1986        1987       1tw0         1989        190         1991        1992        t1s3
Eaort of  aod ed #WS                              10495        9075        am         1107        1250        18074       14405       1568        17109
rc"die (P.0.0)                                 8890        65          6sse       0s8s        10202       1021?       11299       1257S       13654
No" fctor services                             1640        1es         2026        2142        2877        2552        2776        2sss        8172
Impors ot Goods and WFS                           11448       11935       12878       139         1541s       18            629       17016       18973
NaecFliandl  (P.0.8)                           8614        4724        5m          50          0400        So8t        7572        an02        90oo
Wm Fe.or S i ice.                             2077        24W8        2374        280         260S        2600        20e4        2783        268
Roarca Blance                                      4851        1550         208        2907         573        8323       31822        42S9        4742
N4a Factor loco"                                  -5304       -4416       -44e6       400         4154        -5717       -0040       -6377       -0606
Facter Receipts                                253          857         210         810         271         804         827         854         881
Fect.r Payeantt                              -5807        -4773       -4704      -5400        -6425      -6021        -63sr       -6781       -0987
OCT Int r"t)                                  4806        8862        4140        4742        s450        5214        S650         6114       6498
t  Curraet Tronf era                                 0            2          -4         -1            0           0           0           0           0
Cu.rnt Accout Balance                              -58        -2856s   -4206          -2204       -2591       -29         -2224       -2118       -1864
W  tees Feral8. Investmnt                           919         574        -19          9e6         886         900         972        1050        1134
Not iLT WaON*                                      27          5768        2872        84S9        1514        1744        1552        13f0         730
Nat Short tor, CgI tat i-234                                  -4186        -701       -12i         -304         3S0         350         SW          350
Otier Cap itol                                     1500         145        1523       -514          441        -350        -850        -350        -350
COvng  in Raep . C- * increse-)                   -1071         so8        1111        -352          44        -250        -300        -ao0           0
at% Credit ft. lif                             1007         145         014         255         258           0           0           0           0
Stores of current (VP (percent)
Rourcc blanc.                                   6.7         2.3         0.8         3.          4.6         4.0         4.2         4.4         45
iLT Irter t Pry_ante                            7.4         5.9         6.0         6.6         7.0         6.2         0.3         6.3         6 2
Currcnt Acrount Blasc.                         -1.S        -4.3        -0.2        -3.2        -8.3        -2.9        -2.5        -2.2        -1 8
Toat ttLT CaltAl Inflo                          4.8        8.7          3.4        4.8          2.0         2.1         1.7         1.4         0.7
Nat Credit from 1W                              1.0         0.2         0.9         0.4         0.8         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Foreign lxien    Reearves
are" Reg. I... acid (UN Si l i;on)             4749        4185        3075        3427        3883        3633       3a3          4233        4233
bElianga Rates,
Australee poe UN (period av*reg)              0.60        0.94        2 10
Auatralee ar SDR (Dacester) */                0.08         1.54        5.30
Reel tffect;.. lxchange  Rate (1980 * 100     56.10       51.40       54.00
Sourco: LAiCO
a/ FiPtr for 1988 as of July 190.
04-Octt-



- 46 -
Amse  Table 8t    ARtEtl - 8UUANE Of PAlWUS.  RX1L CAIITAL. NO 
----------------------------------.--.-----------------_-
Actos                                                    Projected
*9S          iU         SW ?          lo         Igo         Iwo         1X           199        1iw3
-- _ -- - - -. - - -- - -- . _ -- - -  -. . -- - - - - - - _.__---_.___-----------------._________.___-_._____________________-_______________
wANIC OF PAW4TS
Mst exoerts of  foode and WS                        -953       -9660       -4278       -2i          .-21 f      -29         -m2-22t1                  -s18S4
Exsorts of GOods end tES                        10495        9075        6          1180         1280        18074       14405        15698       17109
Itort4 of Goods nsd WS                         11448        11985       12878       15590       1i481        184         1629        17616       16673
Hot Foct.s Iows                                    -5304       -"16      -4486        -409          -6184       577         -504ti       -6377        60
Not Tl ofers                                           0           2          -a           -1           a           a           0            0           0
Current Account Otisoce                             -95t       -2g88       -4626       -9296        -2591       -2894       -2224        -2118       -1864
Direct Foreign Investment */                         919         574         -19         9#6          6           9gm         972         to0o        1134
Net ItT (Loon*)                                     2766        576s        2372         an           815         205        -340         -231        -4e3
Other Cspit l                                       -385       -4042        1731       -1402         820         -850        -350        -350         -350
Change IV Reser1s (-   Incrc e)                    -1671         863        tlil        -382           44        -250        -300         -300           0
D1S  ISOUS94SQETs
0t  -el-- --nt-                                        0           0           0           0           0            0           0           0            0
Gross d6bursseents of ItT tonse                    75f4         74J         4317        4411         31d7        4333        8006        t4o0        sos.
Pbl, snd Pub. OGussted                          7706         7844        5212        6017        8974         4061        4857        4258        3942
wItilatiterel                                    470         870        1000         702         10          1?          1240         1257        lSG
of* I"                                         144         406         N5          85          *15          674         924         902          737
el Istarot                                      510         1236 054                 514         460          soo         800         500          S00
Prt,. Ousorttsd sod Unidentifi d               6St4         5s29        2863        4265         147         1539        1692        1599         1578
Private f4an-GOwwwwooAd                            0            0           0           0           0            0           o0                      0
TTAL ILT OCIUIIR1 VtW  b/
Public sod Publicly ouaranteed                  6070        6a77        11360       19318 1to    310         sis         16651        18114      18747
itbiletrsl                                       622         92         1619        1949        26S          8282        3909        4583        486o
*/s low                                        622          ?)       1s619        1949        2566         3232        3909        4131        4660
e/, 1OA                                          0           Q           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
ilst.er.l                                       4626         6536        8141        e4ts        877e         90m8        932         9081        Om86
Pe;i. OGus. snd Un;dontof; d                   St496        41243       42675       44342       45197        4714e       49417       s12         8S952
Pr;lon. -Owursntesd                                0            0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
TOTAL SHORT-TE1 OM6                               -2384        -4186        -70t       -1295         -304         350         80          350         3SO
OEM SMVICE
Total Public  ftd P;iv,te tLT                     80199        S560       s8o22        61407       622l         64014      e5611        4t370      S6352
tst Ssrvics Pysots                              -9910       -5965       -6091       -6011       -tost        -6856       -7931        4102       -9637
el/o Interest                                 4006         3882        4146        4742        8480         3214       5sSO         6114        6496
Debt Service so S of Esworet of 0AS                 92.2        61.9        70.7        60.7        48.9         80.8        83.3        S1.j         55 1
Total Short Tor Debt Setvice Psy_snts             -2710        -4995        -701       -1465         -604         180         180         130          ISO
Short Torm Psynota * X of Efprt, of OM             -26.5       -52.7        -8.4       -13.S        -4.8          1.2         1.1         1.0         0.9
A-#. lot. Rat. on Loons (5)                          9.0         6.6         7.2         8.5         9.0          9.0         9.0         9.0         9.0
eAt6 GROW EXPOSRE (5)
I DOD/loal 000                                     1.2         1.7         2.9         3.2         4.1         5.0          5.9         6.7         7.1
ISR  Disb./Totwl Oros D;sb.                       1.9          S.S       I.4          7.7        16.6         14.9        13.4        18.6        11.1
ISS Debt Ser.ice/Total Debt Service               1.2         3.4          S.1         5.8         6.3         7.2          7.S         6.2         e.;
IDA OD/Totel OtO                                  0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Source? LA4CO
a/ Includes 4dt conoversion
b/ Do"  ot ioludd IW.
04-Oct-66



47 -                                             ANNEX I
Table 4
Table 4. N4INA IAL P          SECMM    EFICT
(tmclilnq provincial puen ts)
(cash bi
1997  !                 1988                                      1919
!Y.aral !   I       II    111       IV   Years)!   I          it   'il        IV    VW !Y 1!
!       llpercent of Gap)
CURMET ACCOSt                   !
Currant lennues                     19.5    17.7   17.2   17.7    18.7 !  17.9 !  19.5   20.5   20.8    16.4 !  19.5
Tax Rveu                      !  17.4 !  11.2   15.7   14.2   17.2 !  16.3 !  18.0   19.0   19.3   17.2 !  18.0
Rem-tea Revenoue              !   1.9!    1.5    1.5    1.5        1.1!    1.5 !   1.5    1.5    1.5         1.4      1.5!
Cutrrent Eapeniture             !  20.4      1 19.5    18.1    18.0   20.7 !  19.2 !  18.6   20.4   20.5   21.!  20.0 !
Persmol                       !   3.5 !   3.0    3.5    3.4    4.1 !   3.4 !   3.8    4.0    3.7             4.0 !   3.8 !
goods and Services                 1.4 !   1.4    1.2    1.2       1.2!   1.3!    0.9        1.1    1.3      1.4 !   1.2 !
lnternt on Debt               !   2.3 !   3.1    2.8    1.5    2.5 !   2.5 !   1.7           2.9    2.1      3.5 !   2.S !
hdtic                       !   0.4 !   1.1      0.6    0.2      0.5    0.4!    0.5       0.5     0.7     0.8 !   0.4 !
Freile                          2.0 !   2.0    2.2    1.2    2.0          1 1.9 !   1.2    2.4    1.4      2.7 !   1.9 !
Current I Capital transfers   !  12.8 '  11.7    10.9   11.4    12.5 !  11.6 !  11.9    12.3   13.2   12.4 !  12.2 !
Other Curret Ezpeaditures    !  -0.3 !   1.1       1.2   -0.5    0.3 !   0.5 !   0.3    0.2          0.3     0.3 !   0.3 !
Public Enterprims  Savinp       !  -0.5 !  -0.9   -1.0    0.8    0.1 !  -0.3 !   0.4           0.4    1.4    0.2 !   0.7 !
Public Sector Savings           !  -1.4 !  -2.9   -2.4    0.5   -1.9 !  -1.4           1.5     0.3    1.7   -2.8 !   0.2 !
CAPITAL ACCOUNT                 ! 
Capital Rvnues and ah. o!.   !   0.5 !   0.3    2.0    0.7    0.3             0.9      0.2     1.4     1.4     1.4 !   1.1
!       !                                !                          
Capital Expediturn (gross)    !   3.9        3.9    3.1    3.4       3.7 !   3.5 !   3.3       3.5     3.7    3.7 !   3.5
PU8IC SECT                      !        a                               a        a                                 a       a
11NINB REOUIREIITS             !   4.7      6.4     3.4    2.1    5.2 !   4.3 '   1.4         1.9    0.4      5.1 !   2.2
Neso: Priary surplus            !  -0.9 !  -2.0      1.3    0.2   -0.9    -0.4 !   1.2    2.1          2.5   -0.5 !   1.3
TOTAL FIIUlCIN                  a        I                               a        a                                a         a
-----!                !                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! !a 
a. Net Use of Credit          !   3.4 !   6.9    0.2    4.0        4.7 !   4.0 !   1.5       2.4     1.9     3.5 !   2.3 !
Dsstic                  !   0.4      2.3     0.4    0.9    0.2!    1.0 !   0.4    0.4    0.6           0.7!    0.  !
Foreig                  !   3.2!    4.4   -0.3    3.2        4.5!    3.0 !   1.1    2.1        1.3    2.9!    1.0 !
!        !                               a                                         !        !
b.  let Us  of Advacp         !   0.0 !   0.0      0.0   -0.1   -0.1     -0.1 !   0.0    0.0         0.0     0.0 !   0.0
c.  Chane in stenl arrars!    1.0 !   0.7    3.1   -0.4   -0.5 !   0.7 !   0.1               0.3    0.0   -0.3 !   0.0
d.  Ikt change in oth. liabil.!    0.2 !  -1.2    0.1   -1.4       1.1 !  -0.3 !   0.0   -1.0   -1.4    1.9 !  -0.1 
Sourcet: Ninistry of Ecnmy.
a/ Cerrected for intra-annual inflation



- 48 -                                            ANNEX I
Table 5
Table 5. QUASI-FISCAL SURWLUS IN REAL TER1, 1908-1989
tpercent of GOP)
1988                                       199
II      all    Bill       DIV   Year       GI       oil    g111     DIVt  Yer
Doaestic coonent            -3.22    -0.52    3.20    3.57    0.73   -0.05    0.31        0.16   -0.37    0,01
Nosinal resalt            -1.42    2.08    4.93    2.61      2.04   -0.01      0.59    0.81    0.74    0.54
eIto: Exchange rate ta    0.00    0.00    0.29      1.81    0.52     1.16    0.80    0.56    0.02    O.2
Monetary correction        1.79    2.b1    2.03    0.85    1.82    -1.19       1.08   -1.21    -1.12   -1.15
External coeponent          -0.95   -0.24   -0.98    -0.29   -0.61   -1.10   -0.93   -1.37   -1.44   -1.22
Quasi-fiscal sxpl{ts bi     -4.16   -0.76    2.22    3.26    0.12    -1.15   -0.61   -1.21    -1.91   -1.21
Loss provisions cl          -0.07    0.03    1.01    0.88    0.46    0.40        0.19    0.17     0.16    0.23
Adjusted quasi-fiscal       -4.09    -0.79    1.21     2.40   -0.34   -1.54    -0.80   -1.38   -1.97    -1.43
Rein: or                    90962  146225  260376  305470  802933  347901  407J63  476513  557035 1789012
a/ Adjusted for intra-annual inflation
bJ IMF definition
ci 45 percent provisions on loans to and incoe fro* MN



- 49                                                  ANNEX  I
Table 6
Tabl) 6. FACTUS OF NO NTARY EIPANSIOK
funthbly avragss, pWrcenta  intrease)
Ue        U9    0111       OIV      8u     !  01        0113    0111     10V       Year8  !
Eapansion of Honey  ase Supply       2.39   12.66   23.51    -0.19       10.27 !   t.22      1.01     3.7      9.30 !   7.80 !
Ceta Govt.    -.0 -09 -17 -0                                        -0 !   !                                    !32  86  632 -.9 -04  !
Chanp in cet Foreign Assets o    0.17    11.79    14.62   -3.03          1 6.0     4.589     1.61   -0.29      6.18     3.57
due to operations withs :                                     
Prieate  ctoNr                    2.01     14.92    17.47    0.25 !   9.62 !  10.18    11.31       8.29    10.53      8.84
Public ente pris s                -1.53    -2.38    -3.64    -3.19 !  -6.91 !  -2.90    -3.11    -3.31    -3.48 !  -5.60
Central SYit. y                   0.      -0.93    -1.36    0.00 !  -0.8t    -3.26   -9.61    -6.32    -1.99 ! -10.48
Other                            -0.37    -0.79      1.01    -0.10 !   0.0 !  -0.140  0.10          0.16     0.19 !   0.04
Chan   in credit to Public Sector    t7.     11.32    15.59    4.06 !  11.4        2 1.52   3.61      3.25    4.73 !   3.94 !
cRedit to Nto-finanil P.S.        1.83     2.99     9.90     1.51 !   5.24 !  -1.28       0.22     0.21      1.33     0.37
-nttibation of expiring bonds   2.67      2.19     7.06     0.36 !   4.05        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
ocial Security                   0.12     0.60      1.06     1.15 !   1.53!  -1.28       0.22     0.21      1.33 !   0.37
Other                            0.51       0.23     0.26   0.00 !   0.30 !   0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00 !   0.004
asi-fiscl defit                   5.4      9.29       7.14   2.53      6.80      3.46     3.b6     3.16     3.59 !   3.93
Paysents ot interest             3.7      8.32     6.90     2.55      6.00 !   2.80      3.39     3.50     3.45        5!
Rediscounts                       1.74    0.97    0.35    -0.02 ! 0.80          0 .66    0.28     0.12     0.19 ! 0.36!
c, a                                           apt
etral bank operations              -.68    -5.89    -7.05    -0.49      -8.56 !   1.52      2.87     0.97     2.26 !   1.04
Opec-eaket operations            -2.91    -1.99    -0.62    -1.85 !  -3.42 !-2.65    -0.62    -0.90    -4.43      -3.44!
Other ai                         -5.77    -3.91    -6.43      1.36 !-5.14        4.17     3.48      1.77    6.69 !   4.49!
Bas eoneyi9fl                       5.18     5.11     5.02     4.19 !          !   4.41     4.62     4.41     4.93 !a
hl/BDP                              4.36     3.95     3.37     3.22 !          !   3.31     3.54     3.50     3.65 !          a
Source: Dance Central de la Republica, Nonetary Progras
*1 Includes other ftorts of sonetary expansin or contraction.



_ 50 _
ANNEX II
ST&'rUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                   Pae I of 
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(AS of -March 31, 1988)
ARGENTIMA
Amount less
Loan No.    Year        Borrower     Purpose         Cancellations  Undisbursed
(125$- million)
Fully disbursed loans (18)                               901.6
1521        1978    Argentina        Grain  Storage       87.0           22.5
1761        1979    Argentina        Yacyreta Power      210.0            1.0
2031        1981    Banco Nactonal  Oil and Gas           87.6           34.7
de Desarrollo   Credit
2032        1981    Yaciolentos      Refinery            200.0            3.0
Petroliferos    Conversion
Fiscales
2063        1981    Banco Nacional  Industrial           100.0           31.7
de Desarrollo   Credit It
2296        198     Argentina        Highway             100.0           22.6
2592        1985    Yacisientos      Gas Utilization    180.0           165.2
Petroliferas    and Technical
fiscaler        Assistance
2032-1      1986    Yaciaelntos      Refinery            116.0            8.8
Petroliferos    Conversion
Fiscales
2641        1986    Argentina        Water Supply         60.0           59.5
2675        1986    Argentina        Agricultural        350.0          172.8
Sector Loan
2712        1986    Argentina        Public Sector Mgt.  18.5            13.6
2751        1986    Argpntina        Power                14.0           14.0
Engineering
2793 /a     1987    Argentina        Small and Medium   125.0           125.0
Scale Industry
Credit
2805 /a     1987    Argentlna        Port                 50.0           i0.0
2815        1987    Argentina        Trade Policy        500.0            *.0
2854 lb     1987    Serviclos        Power               276.0          276.0
Ulectricos      Distribution
Gras B.A.
2920 lb     1988    Argentina        fuwicipal Dev,       120.0         12'0X3
2923 )fi    1968    Argentina        Banking Sector      400.0          400.0
TOTAL                                      3,895.7
of which has been repaid                     713.9
3,181.8
Amount Sold                 12.8
Of which has been repaid                      12.8
Total now held by Bank                     3,169.0
Total undisbursed                                         1,524.4
/a Not yet effective.
?- Not yet signed.
5/05/88



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1988)
ARGENTINA
Amount in US$m.
Year     Oblisor                       Type of Business       Total  Equity  Loans
1960     Acindar Industria Arg.S.A.* Steel Products             3.7    -        3.7
1960     Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.*  Pulp and Paper             3.0    -        3.0
1961     Fadess S.A.*                 Automotive                1.5    -        1.5
1962     Pasa*                                                  3.0    -        3.0
1965/72  Celulosa Argentina, S.A.    Pulp and Paper            12.5    -       12.5
1969/75  Dalmine Siderca, S.A.*        Steel Products          17.0    -       17.0
1969     Editorial Codex, S.A.*        Printing                 7.0   2.0       5.0
1971/73  Calera Avellaneda, S.A*       Cement                   5.5    -        5.5
1977184  Alpargatas S.A.I.C.           Textiles & Fibers       30.4   2.0      28.4
1977     Soyex S.A.                    Soybean Processing      25.0    -       25.0
1978     Massuh, S.A.                  Pulp and Paper          29.9   2.4      27.5
19781    Juan Minetti, S.A.            Cement                 103.0    -      103.0
1978/79  Ipako-Industrias              Chemicals and           20.3   2.0      18.3
82187   Petroquimicas Arg.           Petrochemicals
1979/83  Alpesca S.A.                  Fisheries                6.8   1.6       5.2
84
1984/86  Petroquimica Cuyo S.A.I.C.  Petrochemicals            46.6   4.0      42.6
1986     Inversiones Industriales    Capital Market             1.3   1.3        -
S.A. and Roberts S.A.                    -
1986     Atanor S.A.M.                 Chemicals                8.0   1.0       7.0
1986     Banco Roberts S.A.            Capital Market          10.0    -       10.0
Hidra Oil                    Chemicals and            80.0    -      80.0
1987     Garovaglio/Zorraquin          Food & Food Proc.       13.0    -       13.0
1987     Terminal 6                    Port, Storage            5.5    -        5.5
1988     Bunge y Born                  Food & Food Proc.       40.0    -       40.0
1988     Arcor                         Food & Food Proc.       12.0    -       12.0
1988     BRLP                          Dev. Finance            30.0    -       30.0
1988     Astra                         Chemicals               12.4    -       12.4
1988     Chirete                       Chemicals                5.2   5.2        -
1988     Bridas                        Chemicals               20.6    -       20.6
1988     Banco General de Negocios   Finance                   10.0    -       10.0
Total Gross Comuitments                                       563.2  21.5    541.7
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                                        225.5   2.0    223.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                           337.7  19.5    318.2
Total Undisbursed (IFC only)                                164.2   8.8    155.4



- 52 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section Is   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the loan:         7 months
(b) Appraisal Mission:                                     April/May 1988
(c) Completion of Negotiations:                            August 1988
(d) Planned date of effectiveness:                         November 1988
Section IIs Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The following are the additional conditions of loan effectiveness
referred to in para. 124:
i)    the Government's macroeconomic policy framework including its
fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies, is consistent
with the objectives of the Program set forth in the
Goverment's Letter of Development Policy (Annes IV) and the
Letter of Sector Policy (Annex V);
(ii)    the production coverage of QRs has been reduced from the level
of 36.82 existing on December 31, 1987 to 18.02 or less;
(iii)    the number of tariff positions (NADI positions) describing
goods for which the importation process is fully automatic,
i.e. not subject to any Government discretion, has been raised
from 5,804 existing on December 31, 1987 to 7,800 or more;
(iv)    the production weighted average of tariff rates has been
reduced from 43Z existing on December 31, 1987 to 302 or less;
(v)    the tariff band has been reduced from 0-532 for tariff
positions with an aggregate production coverage of 952
existing on December 31, 1987 to 0-402 for tariff positions
with an aggregate production coverage of not less than 972;
(vi)    the maximum tariff rate has been reduced from 1152 existing on
December 31, 1987 to 502 or less;
(vii)    the production coverage of specific tariffs has been
maintained at less than 72;



- 53 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(viii)    no specific tariff surcharges are applied other than the
temporary surcharges for certain electronic goods which
continue to be phased out according to the schedule set forth
in NINEC Resolution No. 418186 (ending September 30, 1990);
(ix)    any countervailing duties, anti-dumping duties or safeguard
measures that may have been applied for more than an
accumulated six months within two years have conformed to the
requirements of paragraphs a (ii) and a (iv) of this section;
and
(x)    the implementation of DGI's program for the auditing of
beneficiaries under the industrial promotion regime has made
progress, satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)      The release of the second tranche of the loan would be contingent
upon the Bank having been satisfied, after an exchange of views with the
Government, with the progress achieved in carrying out the program, and the
Bank having been furnished with evidence satisfactory to it that:
(i)    the Government has made progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in
the implementation of the macroeconomic program set forth in
the Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV);
(ii)    the Government has continuously implemented the ioan
effectiveness conditions set forth in paragraphs a (i) and
a (iv-ix) of this section;
(iii)    the production coverage of QRs has been reduced to 15.O  or
less;
(iv)    the importation process for goods not subject to QRs is fully
automatic;
(v)    the production coverage of industrial export taxes has been
reduced from 15.12 on December 31, 1987 to 7.52 or less;
(vi)    all export controls (prohibitions or license requirements) for
industrial goods have been abolished other than those
established in: (a) a law of the Argentine Congress; (ii) an
international agreement; or (iii) a resolution exclusively for
the maintenance of reasonable health and product quality
standards or for the protection of the environment;
(vii)    the Tax Revenue Service (DGI) has made progress satisfactory
to the Bank in its program for the auditing of beneficiaries
under the industrial promotion regime including the completion
of 400 audits; and
(viii)    the Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade (SICE) hass
(i) strengthened its capacity for supervising the existing
industrial promotion regime as well as the regime envisaged by



- 54 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
the unified industrial promotion law currently before Congress
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) issued regulations
establishing the criteria for the cancellation of benefits
under the industrial promotion system; and (iii) prepared a
plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with the
results of the audits conducted by DGI, including the
cancellation of benefits for firms in violation of their
commitments under the industrial promotion regime.



- 55 -                        ~~~~AM= IV
Page 1 of 8
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Buenos Aires
September 22, 1988
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C., 20433
Dear Mr. Conable:
1.       In early August, the Argentine Government announced an economic
program designed to reduce inflation and thereby stimulate growth.
Embracing both stabilization objectives and medium-term goals, the program
is intended to curb inflation as well as to help reverse the secular
deterioration in saving and investment that has occurred during the 19808.
Even though investment rates have improved in the last two years, the
economy still has not been able to recover from the debt crisis and
macroeconomic instability of the early 1980s. The substantial reversal in
flows of net external resources after 1982 has implied a difficult and
prolonged adjustment that must lead to a process of sustained economic
growth.
2.       The Government's short-term measures constitute a strong program
of action that can lead the country away from endemic inflation and towards
a more promising future. The short-term fiscal objective is to limit the
public sector's financing needs as much as possible to amounts that can be
borrowed from abroad, so that total financing is consistent with the
monetary policy designed for stabilization. In order to place the economy
on this development path, short-term measures are being complemented by
structural reforms. In this respect, the Government is implementing an
extensive reform program that leads to the integration of the Argentine
economy with the rest of the world, the modernization of the State and to a
general deregulation of markets.   With these objectives, the Government is
moving in the direction of eliminating quantitative restrictions to
imports, reforming the industrial promotion incentives and reforming the
*         financial markets to improve the efficiency of private sector activity.
Finally, we are comnitted to improving the efficiency of the public
sector's own operations, particularly in public enterprises.   Both the
short-term actions and the structural reforms constitute necessary elements
to secure sustained growth and macroeconomic stability of the Argentine
economy.
Macroeconomic Goals
3.       Early experience with the measures announced in August is
encouraging. We expect that the rate of inflation will decrease
substantially in coming months. We believe, however, that sustained
progress toward our goals of permanently reduced inflation, reduced real
interest rates, improved efficiency and increased investment will require
additional measures as outlined here.



M= IV
- 56 -                                 Page 2 of 8
4.       Achieving our near-term fiscal objective implies that the
ccnsolidate public sector deficit including the Central Bank's quasi-fiscal
deficit will have to be reduced from 4.6 percent of GDP in 1988 to a
maximum of 2.4 percent in 1989. Fiscal moderation is essential to attain
our goals of a unified, market determined exchange rates by the end of
1989.
5.       Reducing the combined public sector deficit on a cash basis to
2.4 percent of GDP will require a substantial adjustment in the
nonfinancial public sector because the quasi-fiscal deficit is determined
largely by movements in external and internal interest rates, and is
therefore basically outside the direct reach of policy instruments. As
external interest rates have risen during 1988 and the Central Bank will
absorb the new external debt of the public sector in 1988-89, the quasi-
fiscal deficit will increase from 0.3 percent of GDP to 1.4 percent of GDP.
This means that the non-financial public sector deficit will have to shrink
by more than 3 percentage points of GDP--from 4.3 percent to 1 percent--to
reach the objective of 2.4 percent of GDP.
6.       To accomplish this goal, the Government intends to improve tax
administration and collection as well as introduce a new tax reform aimed
at broadening the tax base and improving its horizontal and vertical
equity. This additional fiscal effort will yield gross additional public
sector revenues equivalent to about 1.5 percent of GDP in 1989, of which,
about 0.6 percent would be available to the Treasury after revenue sharing
with the pruvinces. An additional 0.6 percent of GDP deficit reduction
will be achieved through specific expenditure cuts, equivalent to about
US$500 million, by national administration and public enterprises. These
measures will reduce pressure on domestic financial markets and thus
contribute to a reduction in real interest rates which in turn will reduce
the quasi-fiscal deficit of the Central Bank.
7.       The combined overall public sector deficit of 2.4 percent of GDP
for 1989 is expected to be financed by the proceeds of public sector
external borrowing equivalent to 1.4 percent of GDP. Given the expected
remonetization of the economy in 1989, the projected level of domestic
financing (not exceeding 1 percent of GDP) is consistent with the
Government's near-term stabilization target of monthly inflation of less
than 5 percent. It is also consistent with the objective of avoiding any
further crowding out of the private sector. Nonetheless, prudent conduct
of monetary policy is of fundamental importance for the success of the
plan.
8.       Its spite of relatively favorable agricultural export prices and
vigorous growth of both traditional and industrial exports expected to
amount US$10. billion in 1989, we project a modest increase in Argentina's
current account deficit from US$2.4 billion in 1988 to US$2.6 billion in
1989. Substantial improvements in the country's trade balance of
US$750 million in 1989--a 27 percent increase over 1988--are more than
offset by increases of US$1 billion in interest payments mainly due to
increased interest rates on foreign debt.
9.       The Government has begun discussions with its external creditors
and intends to have a complete external financing plan for 1988 and 1989 in
place by the end of this year.



- 57-                                     AM     IV
Page 3 of 8
Public Sector Reform
10.      Disequilibria in public finances have been a continuing feature of
recent Argentine history. In 1975, the deficit reached 15.5 percent of GDP
and remained between 10 and 15 percent for much of the remainder of the
decade. Foreign borrowing, especially after 1979, financed most of these
deficits. The 1982 crisis triggered an interruption in credit flows and
caused a significant deterioration of public finance: sharp real
devaluations and high international interest rates increased the domestic
resources required to meet external interest payments. In 1983, just
before the present Government took office, the fiscal deficit was the
highest registered in the last 30 years, 16.1 percent of GDP.
11.      The Government has been addressing the fiscal problem through
across-the-board expenditure restraint, attempts to improve management of
the public sector and concerted efforts in the four areas affecting the
deficitt central government, relations with the provinces, public
enterprises, and social security. The Government began tax reform efforts
in 1985 and an additional package was passed in January 1988. Expenditure
measures have affected public sector wages and public investment. To
reduce the deficit of the public enterprises measures have been taken
towards increasing tariffs, expenditure control, demonopolization and
deregulation of selected public enterprise activities, together with the
start of a program of privatization of public sector enterprises. The
Government will not make funds available to the provinces beyond these
fore&een in the co-participation law, nor with the Central Bank finance the
provinces through extension of rediscounts to provincial banks. Transfer
to public enterprises will be confined to the funds already earmarked for
them. Simailrly, the Social Security System will have no recourse to
general Treasury revenues.
Federal Government
12.      In order to facilitate an early agreement on priorities, the
Government will submit the 1989 budget to Congress before December 31,
1988.
13.      The Government regards restoration of its revenue base as one of
the most urgent tasks it faces. Action will be taken both to reduce
evasion and improve collection under the existing structure, to reduce
leakage under the industrial promotion system and to broaden the tax base,
while reducing distortions implicit in the present tax system and in the
current system of industrial incentives. To these ends the Government
Will:
- Immediately move to strengthen the tax administration and audit
capabilities of the DGI.
- Develop by Deceziber 31, 1988, a medium-term plan of action for
the further development of the DGI.
- Request Congressional approval of legislation which increases
penalties for tax evasion and which facilitates legal
prosecution of tax evaders.



- 58 -                                   AMMX IV
Page 4 of 8
- Improve the auditing capabilities of both the DGI and the
Secretariat of Industry to determine abuses under the existing
industrial promotion system so that appropriate penalties can
be imposed.
- Request passage of the Industrial Promotion Lam currently
before Congress.
14.      These administrative and legislative measures will be accompanied
by the development of proposals for tax reform to take effect next year, in
part to replace revenue lost with exchange rate unification. The
Government will begin immediately the study of a project of tax reform with
the objective of increasing total revenues and enhancing the efficiency of
tax system. The project will define ways to increase the tax base.
Particular attention will be devoted to a reform of the VAT and excise tax
system. The project will be completed by the end of 1988, and will be the
basis for legislation to be submitted to Congress by that date.
Implementation of the reform will be sought starting July 1, 1989. The
design of the tax reform as well as ways of improving tax administration
will be elaborated by the Government in consultation with organizations
representing the private sector.
Public Enterprises
15.      The objectives of the Government's program continue to be
increasing the quality of services supplied through public enterprises,
while securing access to private resources to increase investment and
contributing to the reduction of the overall fiscal deficit. To achieve
these objectives, the National Government has reorganized the regulatory
framework and decision-making structure of the public enterprises sector to
clarify the financial relations of the sector to the National Government.
Sectoral policies have been placed under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Public Works (MOSP), and budgetary and financial control of the
enterprises managed by the MOSP has been assumed by a holding agency of
public enterprises, the Public Enterprises Board (DEP).
16.      Increased accountability of public enterprises requires that they
operate in an predictable environment with respect to their tariff levels.
This is particularly important if the principles referred to above
restricting their access to Treasury finance are to become well-
established. Accordingly, at the end of the current policy on public
utility rates and fuel prices, the Government will undertake adjustments to
maintain prices in real terms. The goal would be to prevent an erosion in
the real revenues of public utilities. We consider that in the electric
power sector there is a need to improve working margins of federally owned
utilities. It is also our intention to adjust relative prices of gas and
diesel (gas-oil) to encourage utilization of the former.
17.      We shall maintain our efforts to improve the financial planning
and management of public enterprises by the following means:
- The DEP will require all enterprises within its charge to
develop budgets and performance targets for 1989. The approved
budgets and plans will be published by December 31, 1988.



- 59 -                                   ANNU  ITV
Page 5 of 8
-- The DEP will continue its efforts to standardize accounting and
information systems among enterprises, as well as improving
long-term planning of investments and finances in a consistent
fashion.
18.      In order to improve operating efficiency and reduce working
capital needs of public enterprises, the Government will direct immediate
attention to procurement and inventory control practices. To this end, the
Government, through the Ministry of Public Works, will develop by
December 31, 1988, for enterprises reporting to it, guidelines to increase
the competitiveness and transparency of the enterprise procurement process,
guidelines in purchase programming and inventory control, and methods for
monitoring compliance by public enterprises with the guidelines. These
measures will be complemented by continuing reforms of the 'Compre
Nacional" policies that apply to public sector procurement, with a view to
reducing cost and increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the
public enterprises and their suppliers.
19.      The Government will give urgent attention to the restructuring of
Perrocarriles Argentinos and the development of an action plan to divide
the current operation into specific lines of business (freight, inter-city
passenger and suburban passenger). In addition, to ensure that oil
exploration activities are protected from continuing fiscal pressure and
are consistent with the Government's general policy of encouraging private
sector participation, the Executive will sign the Petroplan Decree so that
the program can start before the end of the year.
Financial Sector Policies
20.      The financial public sector in Argentina has traditionally been
characterized by the strong participation of the Central Bank in financial
intermediation; substantial recourse to the banking system as a source of
involuntary public sector deficit financing; and the existence of serious
inefficiencies in the operation of certain national and provincial public
banks.
21.      Central Bank participation in financial intermediation has taken
place both through overregulation of the sector and a substantial volume of
Central Bank lending through rediscounts. To finance rediscounts and the
deficit of the nonfinancial public sector, the Central Bank has imposed
heavy reserve requirements and other forced investments on the financial
system's deposits. 'When reserve requirements and forced investments have
not been enough, the monetary base has been expanded.  Moreover, losses on
the lending operations of several public banks--most prominently the
National Mortgage Bank (BHN), the National Development Bank (BANADE) and
certain provincial banks--have eroded their financing base and these banks
have therefore become excessively dependent on Central Bank credit.
22.      In recent years these problems have resulted in large Central Bank
losses (the quasi-fiscal deficit referred to earlier), adversely affecting
interest rates and inflation. Financial intermediaries, in turn, have
substantially reduced credit to the private sector and become inefficient.
They have to charge large spreads to cover high operating costs and losses
associated with reserve requirements and forced investments.



A60  AN IY
- 60 -                                 Page 6 of P
23.      Particularly in the last two years, the Government has taken
numerous measures to rationalize the financial public sector and to
strengthen the financial system. These reforms include: ti) a restrictive
policy on new Central Bank rediscounts (excluding rediscounts to BHN, the
net cash flow of Central Bank rediscounts has been negative during January-
August 1988); (ii) stre'.jlined rediscount portfolio administration,
including greater transparency (the 1988 rediscount budget has been sent to
Congress together with the fiscal budget); (iii) a reduction in subsidies
associated with Central Bank rediscounts; (iv) liberalization of interest
rates; (v) improvement in regulations and supervision of financial
institutions; (vi) deposit insurance for all small-sized deposits;
(vii) liquidation of several insolvent intermediaries as well as
privatization of other whose administration had been taken over by the
Central Bank; and (viii) strong sanctions against overdrafts of the public
banks.
24.      The Government intends to continue its efforts by taking the
following measures:
- Continuing the rationalization of Central Bank rediscounts,
including improved accounting, transparency, and a negative
cash flow;
- Gradually reducing reserve requirements and forced investments
to facilitate access by the private sector to financial
resources;
- Establishing a deposit insurance agency for the rehabilitation
or liquidation of ailing financial intermediaries;
- Continuing to improve supervision and transparency in the
financial system as well as firmly enforcing prudential
regulations (particularly on provOsions for potential loan
losses);
- Restructuring major public banks--especially BHN and BANADE--to
transform these institutions into self-sustaining financial
intermediaries (discontinuing reliance on Central Bank
rediscounts and gradually reducing existing indebtedness with
the Central Bank). The Central Bank will continue to restrict
rediscounts to BUN only to finance BHN's lending commitments
outstanding as of January 1988; a vigorous collection policy-
-including automatic foreclosure of loans in arrears--will be
an important source of funds for BHN.
Trade Policy
25.      Export expansion, efficient import substitution, increased
international competitiveness, and overall investment growth in the
productive sectors are key elements of the medium-term strategy. The
country's poor export performance in the past, while partly caused by
external conditions, has reflected a domestic economic policy environment
not conducive to export activity. This environment in the past included



- 61 -                                    ANEX IV
Page 7 of 8
overvalued and unstable exchange rates, heavy protection for domestic
market production and sales, export taxes and other impediments to exports.
Recently these policies have begun to change. Since 1985, the Government
has pursued a policy to stimulate exports, principally through a high and
stable exchange rate policy.
26.      During 1987, the Governments  (i) transformed the temporary
admission regime for imported inputs for exports, extending it to almost
all intermediate goods and making it automatic; (ii) removed export taxes
for about 800 positions of the export nomenclature; (iii) introduced a
general GAST--compatible scheme for indirect tax reimbursement for exports;
(iv) improved credit risk assessment in export financing; (v) reduced the
production coverage of quantitative import restrictions from 62 to 37
percent of manufacturing production; and (vi) undertook a program to
simplify export and import procedures.
27.      Since the beginning of 1988, the Government has taken other
important steps: (i) transferred authority over iron and steel imports
from the General Directorate of Military Industries to the Secretariat of
Industry and Foreign Trade, which subsequently removed all quantitative
import restrictions on iron and steel, thereby reducing the production
coverage of quantitative restrictions to 32 percent); (ii) reduced the
production coverage further to 30 percent by removing the import
restrictions on agricultural machinery and tractors; (iii) removed all
reference prices in line with the application of the special temporary
admissions regime to indirect exporters after first introducing a Domestic
Letter of Credit; and (v) reduced import tariffs on iron and steel,
pe&ujgiuiicals, agro-chemicals, pulp and some paper products.
28.      The Government recently has taken measures tot  (i) reduce the
production coverage for quantitative import restrictions to less tha.
18 percent of manufacturing output and to make importation of all other
goods fully automatic; (ii) remove export taxes for about 400 posititns of
the export nomenclature; and (iii) remove tariff exemptions outside the
temporary admissions regime. Sy October 21, 1988, the Government intends
to reduce the average tariff rate to 30 percent (on a production-weighted
basis) and the maximum tariff rate to 40 percent, thereby also reducing
tariff dispersion. In addition, by April 30, 1989, the Government intends
tot (i) start the process of transferring all export transactions to the
free market exchange rate; (ii) reduce the production coverage of
quantitative import restrictions further to 15 percent; (iii) remove a
substantial number of export taxes; and (iv) remove export licenses that
are neither required by law or international agreement, or not justified on
grounds of health, quality control, or environmental protection.
29.      Other new measures will include:
-- simplification and liberalization of export procedures,
specially those affecting small- and medium-size firms; and
-- development and implementation of a comprehensive international
marketing strategy and improvement in the quality of government
services for exporters, specially for small- and medium-size
enterprises.



- 62 -                                Page a of 8
Industrial Policy
30.      The objective of the Government's industrial policy is to promote
an internationally competitive industrial sector capable of realizing its
full export potential. Efficient and competitive industry will increase
Argentina's global market share and improve the population's standards of
living. Achieving this goal requires that trade reform be complemented
with a reform in industrial investment incentives to increase investment
productivity., Implementation of macroeconomic and financial reforms is
also necessary to mobilize financial resources to undertake the investment.
31.      The present provincial and sectoral investment regime entail a
large fiscal cost--nearly 3.5 percent of GDP--and do not encourage the most
efficient investment.  In 1988, the Government sent to Congress a law that
would unify the industrial promotion system by abolishing the special
provincial and sector regimes.
32.      As noted earlier, the Government will request a rapid passage of
the above legislation through the Senate and undertake the related measures
noted above to reduce the fiscal cost and tax abuses associated with the
present incentive regime.
Cop.clusion
33.      I believe you will agree this is an important agenda of measures.
The Government fully intends to pursue these measures vigorously. However,
our success depends on financial support from your organization. Two
sectoral loans--the Banking Sector Loan and the Trade Policy Loan--have
already been negotiated. In addition, several other investment loans are
under preparation. I trust that thim program and its implementation
constitute an adequate basis for the materialization of these loans.
Sincerely,
Juan Sourrouille
Minister of Economy



- 63 -
ANNX V
Page 1 of 5
ARGENTINA
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
Mr. Barber Conable
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conables
1.       Argentina is rapidly approaching a crucial turning point.  If the
country can accelerate its efforts to reform the state and integrate the
economy with the world as well as put in place a program of external
finAnce, it will be able to surmount the obstacles that might impede
sustained growth in the years ahead. The Government has formulated a
strong program of action that could lead the country away from the path of
endemic inflation and toward a more promising future. The program's
ultimate success will rest not only on the conviction of the current
administration, but also on the determination of all Argentines to
persevere with the reform program. However, success also depends on the
decisiveness of Argentina's financial partners to work with the Government
in implementing this program to rekindle investment and growth.
2.       Trade reform and industrial deregulation are at the core of the
Government's action program. In 1987, the Government has implemented a
strong trade reform program, supported by the World Bank through a Trade
Policy and Export Diversification Loan, which focussed on the introduction
of free-trade status for Argentine exporters, but also reduced
substantially the production coverage of quantitatire import restrictions.
The Government has, in 1988, vigorously continued the trade reform on the
import side, and plans to complete the reform by early 1989. Closely
coordinated with the trade reform, the Government has also worked with the
Argentine Congress on a drastic overhaul of the domestic framework for the
regulation and promotion of industry. In this context, the Government
wishes to request a World Bank loan in support of the trade policy program
and of complementing administrative actions on industrial promotion.



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5
Change of the Policy Model
3.       Inward-looking economic policies begun in the 19308, the
unintended outcome of the world depression and trade contraction, and were
deliberately strengthened in the 1940s, providing a legacy of high cost
industries. Over 50 years of industrialization oriented towards the
domestic market, supported by subsidies and high protection, has left the
country with serious problems of efficiency and competitiveness in the
industrial sector. In the 19809, macroeconomic instability and the
unavailability of long term investment financing has further inhibited the
capacity of the industrial sectors to become efficient and competitive.
4.       Export expansion, efficient import substitution, increased inter-
national competitiveness, and overall investment growth in the productive
sectors are key elements in the medium-term strategy. The country's poor
export performance in the 1980s, while partly due to external reasons, has
reflected a domestic economic policy environment not conducive to export
activity. This environment has in the past included overvalued and un-
stable exchange rates, heavy protection for domestic market production and
sales, export taxes and other impediments to exports. Only recently have
these policies begun to change.
5.       At the end of 1984, the Government defined a program of economic
integration into the world economy as a key part of its medium-term
strategy. This approach was designed as part of the overall, in-depth
reform of the structures and behavior of the economy. The Government
recognized that with changes in the incentive framework industrial
investment could be made much more efficient, and Argentina's world market
share could increase substantially. 'While the program of opening the
economy up assigns an important role to agricultural production and the
utilization of energy resources, a central reliance is placed on industry,
which needs to be modernized. Industrial exports enable the economy to
better withstand the vagaries of conmmodity prices. With a larger share of
exports coming from industry, the country would be better positioned to
control its domestic macroeconomy.
Trade Policy Performance Until 1987
6.       An important effect of the Plan Austral on trade and industry has
been the progressive real depreciation of the exchange rate for trade
transactions. Fiscal necessities of the 1985 stabilization plan, however,
prompted the Government to impose a tariff surcharge of 15 percentage
points. The combined effect of real depreciation and tariff increase has
been that a number of the quantitative import restrictions, particularly
for intermediate goods, have become non-binding.
7.       The Government started to reform trade policy in 1986, and has
since intensified its efforts. The measures in 1987 were supported by a
Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan from the World Bank. During



- 65 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5
1987, the Government: (i) transformed the temporary admission regime for
exports, extending it to almost all intermediates and capital goods and
making it automatic; (ii) removed export taxes for about 800 positions of
the export nomenclature; (iii) introduced a general GATT-compatible scheme
for indirect tax reimbursement for exports; (iv) improved credit risk
assessment in export financing; (v) reduced the production coverage of
quantitative import restrictions from 62.3 percent to 36.8 percent of
manufacturing production; and (vi) undertook a program to simplify export
and import procedures.
8.       The first indicator for a success of these reforms was a raise of
imports under the temporary admission regime for intermediates by more than
120S in 1987 over 1986. The most recent export figures for the fourth
quarter of 1987 and the first quarter of 1988 show an increase of about 50?
over first two-quarters of 1987 for the export of industrial manufactures.
The Government's perseverance in bringing about a competitive exchange rate
despite a difficult macroeconomic situation, and of moving rapidly in 1987
to establish free market status for exporters appears to produce results.
Recent Trade Policy Actions
9.       The Government has taken other important steps.  It:
(i) transferred the authority over iron and steel from the General
Directorate of Military Industries to the Secretariat of Industry and
Foreign Trade, which subsequently removed all quantitative import
restrictions on iron and steel, thereby increasing the production coverage
of fully automatic imports by 5.3 percentage points; (ii) removed all
reference prices in line with the application of the GATT customs valuation
code; (iii) extended the standard and the special temporary admissions
regime to indirect exporters after first introducing a Domestic Letter of
Credit; (iv) reduced import tariffs on iron and steel, petrochemicals,
agro-chemicals, pulp and some paper products; and (v) removed quantitative
restrictions on agricultural machinery and tractors, reducing the
production coverage of QRs to 30.22.
10.      Currently, the Government is preparing the following actions:
(i) replacing the tariff exemptions for imported capital goods granted to
firms that benefit from industrial promotion by a general flat tariff rate
of 52 for all importers; (ii) removing export taxes for a substantial
number of agricultural and industrial goods; and (iii) announcing publicly
a trade reform program concentrating on the removal of QRs and the
reduction of the maximum and the average tariff rate.
Continuing Trade Policy Actions
11.      The Government intends to complete the trade reform by early 1989.
Until October 31, 1988 or before, the Government will:
-- reduce the production coverage for quantitative import
restrictions (QRs) to 18X;



- 66 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5
-- reduce the maximum tariff rate to 402 and the average
production weighted rate to no more than 302;
- maintain the production coverage of ad valorem tariffs at no
less than 93Z;
__ not apply specific tariff surcharges other than the temporary
surcharges for certain electronic goods that will expire
progressively until September 1990; and
__ remove all industrial export interventions other than those
explicitly required in an Argentine law or in an international
agreement or necessary for the maintenance of health and
quality standards.
Until March 31, 1989, the Government will, furthermore:
-- reduce the production coverage of QRs to 15.0;
-- reduce the production coverage of industrial exports taxes to
7.5?; and
-- bind safeguard measures as well as countervailing duties and
anti-dumping duties to the limits on the production coverages
of QRs and ad valorem tariffs and on the average tariff rate.
Complementing Domestic Industrial Policy Actions
12.      The Government recognizes that the effectiveness of its trade
policy reform is seriously impaired by: (i) provisions in the various
industrial promotion laws that are responsible for high fiscal costs,
misallocation of labor and capital, and the replacement of export oriented
investments by defensive investments in internal markets designed to
capture special tax advantages; and (ii) a lack of administrative control
over the system that compounds the fiscal costs and economic distortions
and facilitates substantial tax evasion.
13.      A thorough reform of the industrial promotion system requires a
new unified industrial promotion law as well as changes in the structure of
taxation. The Government has worked with the Argentine Congress on a law
that would unify the industrial promotion system by abolishing the special
provincial and sector regimes. It would further replace specific tax and
tariff exemptions by tax credits that can be charged against various tax
liabilities, thus avoiding serious allocative distortions. In addition,
the Government has taken the following administrative measures: (i) the
application of a more transparent and rigorous project ranking methodology
to applicants for benefits, thereby increasing investment efficiency and
reducing in half the authorized fiscal benefits; (ii) improvement in the



- 67 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 5
effectiveness of the tax oollection associated with the deferment scheme
through the introduction of a system of real warranties (Resolution
2794187); (iii) reduction of fiscal cost and closing of tax loopholes
through the elimination of the freely transferable tax credits on sales of
the suppliers to promoted firms with exemptions on the value-added tax on
purchases (Decree 575188); (iv) eliminating the indirect tax reimbursement
for suppliers from the mainland to the island of Tierra del Fuego.
14.      The fiscal costs and the economic distortions of the existing
industrial promotion system can only be contained through improved
administrative control. In this context, the Tax Revenue Service is
currently investigating all promoted firms and is preparing reports to the
national and the provincial authorities of application. The Government
will, until March 31, 1989s (i) accelerate the program of investigations
conducted by the Tax Revenue Service; (ii) strengthen the auditing
functions of SICE which is the Authority of Application for the special
sector regimes and for all but five provinces; (ill) make public a
transparent set of auditing criteria; and (iv) submit a plan of action to
deal with all cases of irregularity detected by the Tax Revenue Service.



hI            -.-P----
iI              il '?Il'ijj{
..~~~~~~~~~1 .....         _
iliii'   i-\i1 X~
1}ci III 7   il''t   lf ii       Cl1ju
_   .~~~~~
t~ '' l'! X  X        XIEt
______  fi~I ~i4 iie    i 
g 31W i{
II~~~~               * I  -I
.~~~~~ .                         , 



- 69-                                                           am vI
Po  2f 2
-ddemits In 1987 ?a                      taken until          D E   to be takn befor    lsta to be tan bor
oUcy IObjectima           (stofei by  1.                September 30, 1988           tan Effectiwt_a          SFeu  Trod. Nelso
4. .rptton et
4 ltttm d~rt
(1) Tmrazy Mua   iM  for  l           rte iatm ad   TIR for st@t1vitat  atead      Full attctity of VA         Full aittiityq ofIR
miWb.              cq4tal Woo Installe,          to imUrect aoztem             1arta aitatutd pera11l       Imta ts        to all
iwots fully sttc  iin                                      to full aitUUtftty <f        twiff jattimv not
relaed to tariff psitime                                   pral U*lta. (SO              stibect to (lA6 (SOO
for WA gpvrl full                                           1(U).)                       1(U).)
ouatidty tm ben
lntloxx. (See 1(11h)
(1i)  uvirct Tax         LWlnct tat reIiwawmt
todauu      ad      adh. Intraaed for eqots
fqit Substdies      of bifstri  miu_f;tutets
gradfatle1d     m; of     I
-uto ptqr- (PM.
(iU) FJqmrt T1nti        bEmt t_m  edlliNOW or         stpom t    einate for                                        lin1 ztt tas
rend  for 800 posttio of    200 1zItrl  ad 160                                          elImiated swet for mlE
thie as;a t    ,mlaturw      artltuwal WME pmtUtmu.                                     paitiu with an  a   eI
(WMS) desctihiginasetrial                                                               gofoat4o  cerw  f
goo; tes ruin for 950                                                                    7.5L
poasid   with 15i
pwb1ation oar,p
(iv) lat  Iotrols        hpott luriu prcalk                                                                     AloU     t I itas1 . ad
sij imfil thwa - avsp                                                                   a*tr esUala  Uiih
windo prs-. dmit 1,900                                                                  swpt dens (a) g.citly
inAstrial NAM pouitio                                                                     quirel    * lam d
with rodoction amzq  of                                                                 Qagree (relten to
312 still retve qrt                                                                     bae); (U) w wdtly
Ullae.                                                                                  rqwird by iatiloml
gr.int; or
(iU) acadi-ly eld
to tde amitemas of
santary ad pet
qmity st _darB or to
5. auts      f                                         SW F  fiel sctor zqia   ad    frt    a  nes Iaaitia        fPrsz    in auititn
butrial Fuml                                        for _rml proincial rqtv        prgri of DGI. aetIay   prg    of OGi idth 400
_L5. mm hla                                                                       to de 3&L                   astts oaleted; irsti-
-reLoa  fby half tte imenttves                             htov  itabLuty d Sam
for tkv jrjatin o   se.                                   fot dealn with cosorl
-tumal dblefed tm                                          fmi9tIm  o adat  ad ef
liabltiw a8d 5e5xed by                                    no' FUotion lw a Ied
tkanst                                                    dromj hira  acd tainig
-inareui w.urarmey of                                      af staff ad pbicarion
ojet MlectioM  tlta4i                                     of trohltn on criteds
tE econdisu to criteda                                    of a,dtiR ad sdanio
at  ort ad uflplcnt                                       milift  on emellatun of
_ittatiot, loald reamwr   e                               ban its; action plan
ad flscal oast creation.                                  satisfctty to tt Bak,
For siea  jawrinal rvme                    tqier   for rairllatfon
aid for Sweral pronidal                                    of banditt for fim  thst
reim  th      s albd tk                                    f  l mw st coalel with
eruption for aujlfe  to dte                                dvir azaitze tdur tie
sujlere of jamtad flm                                       raed project; joint
Ib bfm daoliatid.                                          afontton stys of OGI,
helirect tai raid.umme  for                                SLIX ad Sretaurt of
autt   frmt dv Mila                                       Fin      estsbu*lIvd on all
to Tlere h1 f     a s il ls eojecte ad jwmad   firm
sidtlaul lbuflts for fiv                                  elladq for flanal ad
In Patdnia bRIet4, to                                      athnlatratiwe osUto.
Tieadel Fsg ad.bi*sl.
Ibal of Dec 515 bdrch
Alowe dmty-ftee -qtt1
pos iorts by p1m*Ad
fines;
Tax 1mens Serice (l1) has
stared pVrq   of aidtft
p-     fttcs ad hs
ca    _t   0  edits.



- 70 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
SECOND TRADE POLICY LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.       The Technical Assistance Component has been specifically designed
to strengthen the Government's capacity for the administrative control of
the industrial promotion regime. The strengthened capacity would,
furthermore, enable the Government agencies involved--the Secretariat of
Industry and Foreign Trade (SICE), the Secretariat of Finance (SOF) and the
Tax Revenue Service (DGI)--to act expeditiously as soon as the unified
industrial promotion law whicn is currently before Congress has been
promulgated. The TAC consists of the following blocks: (i) support from
consultants on specific issues; (ii) training; and (iii) purchase of data
processing equipment.
I. Support from Consultants
2.       The areas to be covered by consultants are:  (i) support of DGI in
the auditing of 400 firms that benefit from the industrial promotion
regime; and (ii) design and implementation of a joint information system of
SICE. SOF and DGI on all projects and firms benefitting from the industrial
promotion regime.
DGI Audits
3.       DGI has started a five year auditing program affecting 3,150 firms
that claim tax exemptions or tax deferments under the existing industrial
promotion regime. Under the program, DGI audits the compliance of
beneficiaries with the obligations (on fixed investments, output and
employment) they entered when accepting the benefits. The audits have an
immediate tax revenue impact as they allow DGI to reduce claims in as much
as actual fixed investments and output fall short of values estimated at
the time of project approval. In addition, DGI reports each case of non-
compliance to the respective Authority of Application of the industrial
promotion law, i.e. SICE for all sector programs and for 18 provinces and
the Provincial Governments of four provinces and the Territory of Tierra
del Fuego. The authorities of application are obliged to review the audits
and either cancel the benefits or issue a new project approval. The audits
have thus the potential of substantially reducing the number of
beneficiaries.
4.       As of August 1988, DGI has conducted 1,640 short on-site
inspections and 109 in-depth inspections resulting in a final report to the
authorities of application. In 100 cases, firms were found in violation of
their obligations. As a second tranche release condition, DGI would
accelerate the program and conduct a further 400 in-depth inspections.



- 71 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
5.       The accelerated program cannot be carried out by DGI's existing
staff or, considering time requirements for hiring and training, by new
staff. DGI would hire junior external auditors to work in teams under the
direction of DGI's tax inspectors.
Joint Information System
6.       Complete and continuously updated information ons (a) all promoted
projects; (b) all investors and firms entitled to tax benefits under the
terms of project approval; and (c) the non-promoted economic activities of
these firms would allow: (i) DGI to curb tax evasion by cross-checking tax
benefit claims of investors, promoted firms and suppliers to promoted
firms; (ii) SOF to enforce the limits set in the annual budget law on the
aggregate fiscal cost of new project approvals for each authority of
application: and (iii) SICE as the authority of application for the special
sector schemes and for the promotion schemes for 18 provinces to improve
its performance in project evaluation and project auditing.
7.       The consulting firm in charge of thxs area should:  (i) analyze
the information needs of the three users DGI, SOF and SICE; (ii) design the
information system; (iii) provide the necessary software; (iv) develop the
detailed specification of the required hardware; and (v) implement the
system.
8.       Through a joint Resolution, the Secretaries for Finance and for
Industry and Trade have set up a Joint Commission to: (i) issue the Terms
of Reference for the joint information system; (ii) select a consulting
firm through an appropriate bidding process; and (iii) act as the
counterpart to the consulting firm. The disbursement of loan proceeds for
the TAC would be contingent upon Terms of Reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
IX. Training
9.       SICE is currently not fulfilling the auditing functions assigned
to it by the existing industrial promotion law, and is not be equipped to
take up the enlarged control functions which the new unified industrial
promotion law assigns to it as the sole authority of application for all
provinces. It has been estimated that SICE's auditing unit needs to be
enlarged by 22 accountants/auditors and 3 industrial engineers.
10.      The consultants in charge of this area should train SICE's new
staff ons (i) procedures of accounting and business performance auditing;
(ii) investment surveillance; and (iii) capital goods valuation. The Terms
of Reference for the training task are currently prepared by the Under-
Secretary for Industrial Promotion. Disbursements would be contingent upon
Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank.



- 72 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
ITT. Data Processing Equipment
11.      The joint information system for DGI, SOP and SICE will require
data processing support. The detailed specification of the required
hardware has to be developed by the consultants (see para. 7).
12.       The enlarged auditing unit of SICE would require three personal
computers.
IV. Cost Estimate
13.      Consultants.  (i) The time of junior external auditors devoted to
each audit is estimated at 12 weeks. With 400 audits and an estimated fee
of about US$400 per week, the budget for the DGI audit comes up to
approximately US$1,920,000. (ii) The cost of consultant services for the
design and implementation of the joint information system should not exceed
an equivalent of US$230,000.
14.      Training.  The training program would require about 30 instructor
months. With an estimated monthly fee of US$2,500, the training budget
comes up to US$75,000.
15.      Data Processing Equipment.  The specification for the hardware to
be used in the joint information system is to be developed by the
consultants. Most likely, a multi-access system would be required. The
total budget for data processing equipment, which would include three
personal computers for SICE's auditing unit, should not exceed the
equivalent of US$125,000.
11.      The total cost of the TAC--consultants' fees, training fees and
computer purchases--should not exceed the equivalent of US$2,350,000.



- 73 -
ANU VIII
Table 1
Table 1 Argentina - Structur. of mport Protection for the 2,nufacturlng Sector
Sector production    qR production coverage    Average Tariff
In percent of total   In percent of total         Rate In Xe
ISIC  manufacturiag           manufacturino           _
Seitor                   No.  produgtlon             ec. 1987   Oct. 1988    Docember 10987
Food products              all      17.01                2.18         1.85            87.68
Tee, Coffee                812       1.75                 .21          .17            84.15
Beverae"                   8s        2.87                 .25         1.16            48.08
Tobacco                    814       1.46                1.86        0                 86.02
Toxtiles                   321       7.46                8.87         8.87            50.92
Wearing apparel            822       2.71                2.57        2.67             58.00
Lewther and products       828       1.22                 .12         .12             81.18
Footwear                   824       1.01                 .96          .79            61.84
Wood productn              81        1.08                .89          .06             S0.68
Furniture                  882        .68                 .26          .68            48.72
Paper and product          U41       2.67                 .59         .01             46.91
Printing, publishing       842       2.14                1.14          .14            88.84
Industrial chemicals       851       4.55                1.11         .60             88.54
Other chemical products    852       5.8?                3.a4        2.14             88.27
Petroleu  rottnerl1        858      12.87                 .88        0                41.80
Petroleum, coal product.    54        .54                0           0                44.20
Rubber product.            as8       1.26                 .78          .10            47.10
Plstlc products      a     85        1.00                1.50         1.86            41.50
Pottery, china, etc.       881        .46                .17          .08             87.80
Cloas  and produect        862        .68                .28          .04             41.98
Hon-metnl product. nec.   $89        1.99                 .68        0                44.57
Iron and steel             871       4.97                4.97        0                26.90
Non-ferrous mels           872       1.18                 .07        0                87.70
Metal product.             881       5.48                2.22         .77             48.06
Machinery nec.             882       8.84                2.72          .07            41.0?
Electrical machinery       888       8.18                .68          .18             32.88
Transport euIpment         864       6.51                8.60        1.74             58.95
Professional goods        a88         .80                 .10         .07             88.27
Other lndustries           890        .88                 .10         .06             44.75
Manufacturing              8       100.00               86.79       17.91             41.29
O Excluding productpeciftc tariff surcharg", tncluding across-the-border surcharge.
Source: NDKEC; World Dank staff estimates.



UutiUiilil HI.E ElDiE II911. 19lt-1l9.
a s  rwalatign t  rf a l escbange rate Inices.)   bartrl --
1t?      17       1         17       1919       9       19 3       n 193   199       199      19        19P
Estimatad, 1917t1-1I9-2; pnojectd, 191113-190994.          1         2        3         4        1        2         3        4         1        2         3        4
bsad o Averaged  laele and Comwe     r Pricn
(1W9  a 100; 14 priKipIP  tradin  Wrtel
Ral f1 E, Rate, p.a., to Agicultural Esperter               103.2    101.7    102.4      92.?     92.9      99.5    104.1    19.9    107.6    106.3    105.0    103.6
percentap Rea o etalawutsl                                   -1.4      o.       -9.n      0.2t      2.11     9.02      4.!    -t1.n2    -1.22    -1.2n    -1.2t
Rutl Ecug c   ate, p..., to Indutrial fperts                103.2    101.7    102.4      92.7     92.9      9.1      9.1      96.9      9.6      9.1       U.S      92.3
Percentap Real Rvluti.l                                      -1.42     A.m       9.a      0.2       2.91     2.n      -1.n     -1.22    -1.22    -1.2n    -1.22
Real Ehchap Rate, p.&., to lewrtn                          103.2    10.?    102.u       92.?     92.       91.      93.O     6.1       06.1     6.0       u.o      03.0
Perutw   hat Realutlos                                       -1.4      0.7      -9.2      0.2!      2.62    -2.62    -6.       -i.22    -1.22     -I.n      -1.22
I
Official Etchg  bbte 10/N1, p.&.                          1.4049   1.6100    2.1463   3.41600   C.       6.79m       11.2      12.7     14.1     16.7      U.t      22.4
PerctW  Rvaltation u.r.t. UBS                      -19.12   -12.7    -25.02   -37.2    -22.02   -31.62   -39.42   -12.01   -12.02   -13.6    -13.          -13.62
Fre ExchaeP Rbte 1 901 p.1   . 1p77000   2.062    2.92360  4.12    5.61123  6.46023                                  13.1    1M.9 .  19.1        20.9      24.2     21.1
ercentage Pmi, Fre/Official Rate:                   26.02    29.12    36.22    22.42    33.n       24.2    20.S2    2s.02   2n.0!    21.0!    21*           25.02
Ilesale Price  P.G.- Orgtiua (1990 a 0.11                  422.2    419.9  616.6   1022.1   1316.4   2263.1   3447.5   3447.1   347.1   3447.1               3447.    364.5
prnotae Itcreas                            17.22    13.42         37.12    1.n   32.n     6.n       93.a     1.52    13.U        1.n    1S.M       15.6
Consue Price p.a.- ketial Jim  x 0.11                      3.?    463.9    619.4    93.6   11.6   1793.4   2614.7   2U4.7   2614.7   264.7   2614.7   2U4.7
Prtagt   lntrawu                           20.n      17.n    3.32      44.2    29.3       ss.22    79.2      21.n3     1.       15.6!    I.s2    1.9
Coeined Price Ildice - Argetina J1990 0.11                 415.9   479.6    6.6    97.4   I27.6   2013.2   3716.0   4411.9    062.1              60.1   679.2    73.6
Percentae loa                              19.12    1.3       35.2!    50.1      31.02    61.02    91.02    19.92  13.62 M.2              1.       11.2
Sornt Ces:    and   IIF (IFS) data ad LQ  orast,.
I-4g
'-4
I-



- 75 -
ANNEX VIII
Table 3
Table 3t ARGENTISA - Realized Trade Taxes and Subsidies and Anti-ExMort
Biases by Product Category (January-August 1987)
Export  Export  ZEport   Realised  Nominal Anti-Export
Tax     Subeidy  Subsidy   Tariff   Tariff   Bias
Rate    Rate      late      Rate/l   Rate/2   Ratel3
Sec. Description          (2)       (1)      (2)        (2)       (2)      (1)
1    Animal Products       5.2       1.6     -3.6        7.4      20.0     23.7
2    Vegetable Products   9.7        0.4     -9.3        5.6      18.0     27.3
3    Misc. Animal & Veg.  7.2        0.4     -6.8       15.4      15.7     22.4
4    Food Ind. Products   4.3        0.4     -3.8        8.0      11.6     15.4
5    Mineral Products      8.4       0.7     -7.7        7.5      20.3     28.1
6    Chemical Products    1.9        7.5      5.6       18.1      21.1     15.5
7    Plastic Goods         0.0      11.7     11.7       23.7      27.4     15.8
8    Leather Products      9.7       1.6     -8.0       23.8      24.2     32.2
9    Wood Products         0.8       8.2      7.4       19.0      20.0     12.6
10   Pulp & Paper Prod.   0.0       10.9     10.9       21.1      24.4     13.4
11   Textiles & Apparel   6.4        6.8      0.4       20.4      26.6     26.2
12   Shoes & Other App.   0.0       12.4     12.3       20.6      36.8     24.4
13   lonmet. Hin. Prod.   0.0       13.5     13.4       13.6      38.9     25.5
14   Jewelry               0.4      11.3     10.9       30.6      32.0     21.1
15   Metallurgical Prod.  0.0       12.9     12.9       14.6      32.0     19.1
16   Machinery & Zag.      0.1      13.8     13.7       24.2      36.5     22.8
17   Transport Machinery  0.0       13.3     13.3       30.6      49.1     35.8
18   Precision Equipment  0.0       10.4     10.4       28.8      36.8     26.5
19   Weapons               0.0      11.9     11.9       19.9      59.7     47.8
20   MLsc. Manufacturing  0.0        9.8      9.8       27.6      37.2     27.4
21   Art Objects & Misc.  0.8        8.3      7.5       37.0      41.1     33.6
Suary
Ag. & Agr. Indus.    6.6        0.6     -6.1        6.7     16.9      22.9
Manufacturing Prod.  3.0        9.0      5.9       22.3     30.9      25.0
of which:
Capital Goods    0.0      13.4      13.4      27.3      41.9     28.5
Total                 5.4      3.5      -1.9       21.3     32.5      34.4
Sources Computed from INDEC information.
Notes:
1/  The average realized tariff rate is defined and estimated as import
tax collections divided by the value of imports.
2/  The average nominal tariff rate is calculated as the average realized
tariff rate, except that tariff exempted imports are excluded.
3/  The nominal anti-export bias rate, expressed as a percentage of FOB
value, is equal to the average nominal tariff minus the not export subsidy
rate.



Table 4: ARGENTINA - Ebyorts l Comuodity Groups. 1970-1987
- (Mllitons or US dollars)
ioi~ INtUIt ta.,  am  us  aceM    11"s t  11 1u  2r                             11 11 me      1        1a11    1a         I11 1111    31     tin       Ila      1 3 U
1- terIa     S Wc aessail medas                               sc       sA  *      "       fit       32       2*       41        in        19     sit        I1"                mu        in       ta        0        1111      1SI
t* Cereals. otws        A"d   Ote r st is i tyrautv   profgts  39    A3N      44   9  3         INS5    U2N        14)      20l      22W       211      26W       31       2132      313      3113      133      23          M23
111-  basal ma vept*3q t at,    sesa ei                                                   139       Xs        93         t mn            isa       3         2        3        4a        in       9111      9 9s 32             6
If    fso, Ins,. led t           s                            32       2W          2      4         its     "U S        n       w 7        I 1t   3n 117             64                          11ts            l1  wo
llswt  raec ha 14                                                       at       is        s        21       22        2        19         t       a        us        m        mum                iS JU              81        9%
tI-   Cbt  Cdl   s EOcKts                                       Ht       S7       n         a       Itt       li2      n13      t     t    t       it!         t      VA        W        29        m         t        2          m4
933-  Ptcstc predoctts   arSW     rs e_t ctrn                   at        9       12        2t       34        at       1i       2l        3l       2r        2t       U4        *7       1         27       92        7         3
VIII- tWtter, for aE thesr sasfatwrs                           lat               IU        153     1at        ni       te       19        413      t         2        4"         4t           3     3       13 lU                3 
It-Susipuducts                                                 0         0        4         0        9 e  e  e                             I                           I I                a         4        4 e  e
'-   149t  NW #SW frO tts                                       1        1        it  a              Mt       29        32      13         H         9        At       U         a        SI        43 n2              33        3                    0
'1-   l5lf fsiCl@thlsg                                        123        1                          i 3n      In2      23       3         43       333       44       39        3n       22        n        3         24        2
l-Fgt ,tar, ekt.                                                0                  3        21       tt        3         1 t               n         It        I                                     2        2         9         2
1111- IWMstaltat sWsrat rOtd      s                             2                  4        9 *          13              2 U     it        3        34        a   2 n            II        9        Is       U2        2i s
IItV    Prcian stils adprwt,                                    S e                2         I        0        0         3                                    24       21         *        *         *        *         *         e
39-  hilat st, 3samsItar,                                      39        4?       St      In        ai,       tI      l1       li2       192      19         2       41        5It      soI       11it       9        4        45
3      tt- 6acwr  ar  electricatl  qsipat                      3        3         62      to        2W       m 22       9       244      23        Utt      14        t1       293      1in       II        20         1 21     212
Mi V  lrastprt.qsps t                                          12        19        3       ols     Ia         an      2tt       233       21       112       IN       32n       t         92 n     U        2in       23       l3t
8Vil--pttc MA  uscIuafac .sst.stse                              3         4                 t to     32       It        Is       I9        n        41        21       a         at        I                 Is        at        It
:aa- A      as ead" iott                                        0         0        0         2        2        0         2        4         I        I         2        2         1        1         *        I         I         t
tl- OthsVOW       Sfe4ts.                                       0         e        3         3        3        3         3        5         3        3         t        1         4        2         3        2         3         3
1  -ptsqvs asE.tb eear     tts                                  *         9        0                                                                                                                                                                   I e  4  0  *  e  9  0  9  5  9  3  *  *
311114Mn  aid swll ,         u                                  I         I        t        t         I        I         I        I         1        2         2        2         2        1         1        1         *                          
.................I................................................. . ... . ........................... ...... . . .  ......
INtet  13111.
It ftlstaw  Ut& e         of eE Oc tterw I'S?1.                                                                                                                                                                                                     '.
Ruth i19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '.



Table 5: ARGENTINA - Imports by Commodity Groups, 1970-1987
(Millions of US dollars)
17e      U971      191       19,73     914 un            I9n 6     m9        1917      97       imo      ImI       3982    1355        *914       95M       13    8911 It
101t t INNPUIS ItlF)                                           194         8      1905      22e      315       391o7     3033     4312      3034       10     10U41      930       5331      4569     44        334 u4                UK54
I-    LmvntOCk  admnstlp gtCKI                                   Il2        9        6         5        14       17         4        25       30        19       I0        16        29        33       21        20        40          44
t1-   Cereals. oilseeds and ather aqritcltvral prout,             9        62      104       l3        12      13       I         to4      142        5        314      229       1         120       126      I24       24           44
I11- Ma"a a d .va tab.fate and a ils                              2        6         3         4        6         9         6         7        6        it        t4       to         *         9        o         6         7           5
IV-   Food. beraqs. and tobacco                                  24        24       2t        23        39        0        26        43       53       184      206       1n          17        5   1    7        53        a     1
v-    Petral products                                           127       163      I"9       211        0I      637      6Ut        111      5        IM        1257     1114       U1                 614       lie       s71 i29
9l-  CMuscal eroductt                                           214       299      20        299        44      63        si       59        5          4       1125     1016       92        9412     Rol       79         34         "6
Vll-  Plastic products aid rbtbber  mfnutctwr.s                  54        57       65        n        Id       166       1io       14         9       352       457      404       271       29       315       U2        2           2
Ill- t-atbl for sad tb,ire a         ct                                     00n  I  0  '       0         0         1        0                   2        5         9       17         7         3         3         2        3           4            I
11- bNd   trod ts                                                12        72   n I           5S7       99        2        36        a        s        123       m        130        is        63        2        3         5           44
1-    Pra     paper products                                    III       lO0       94       IU        201       "        13                 so        246       393"      as       III       1          91        is      i23         It
n1- testin  AMhlothli?                                           43        46       43        It        n        65        a         43       4        1n   m     0       43        1         1         15        71       to           9
Ill-  hetuar, dt.                                                 20                           0         0         A        *         I        2         9        5J       41         4         2         2         1         1          2
fillt -SmtallicGinwal0rSdcts                                    2n        2N         23       22 2n               36       34        34       41        U        170      in         46         0        42       3         *7          6
tII-  Pructsustes as  Products                                    3        24         3        I        10       10         7         6        A        12        23        t         I         I        to         5        5           4
19-    WAC Mtal Ouctr                                           361       163      3         549      002       "I7       3         s1t      30        6 "9               633 m '             49        514      Su        39          45
m1-    lachuuy a   electrical q"&het                            410      "4       5324       46       5         O         67       9"       10t7      141      2994      2913      3471      120       al6t     t41       It"         135
1lWI- taort    lpmnt                                             I9 30             126       Il        145      149       144       455     m33        723      IU                  341       MS        34       2"        23          22
VI9Il-Optic sod sciataic iatrumonts                              51                 4         62       tO5       9         55       l10      1t4       19        fl       *7        19        In        85       17 "2n22 m
lI- kes ndad  a tutio                                             0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         1         A        5         2         1        0         0         I           I
ll-  Otbr products an.                                                      7        4         4         S       10         6        14       22        47       I7      t1          35        22        22       20        N           n I
U1l- tau n  adart nbJtsCOS                                        0         0        0         0         0        0                   0        0         0                 1          0         1   I          I                         a Z
fill-Sa1 esn andstall ptmc&as                                     0        0              0         0O                      I 0                O 0                 4        4 I                 t         1        o         3           *
........ ........... _  ......................................... . .... ..._.._______................_.___._......................__._____.___._.____................ __..____....... __ ._..... __  . ___ ...... _._.... _________ _________ -  --  ------------
hwces ItUEE.
It Pelittary  ta as n      t o id-ktotbet 1397.
arb tc  t



- 78-
ANNEX VIII
Table 6
Table 6: ARGENTINA - International Prices, Trade Volume Indices and
the Terms  of Trade,  1970-1987
Esport         Isprt           Export           oort             Torn           Fuel            NUV
Volum          Volun            Price          Price              et           lndexv2/       Index 3/
Index 1/       Index 1/        Index 1l       Index 1/           Trade 
1970          100.0           !00.0          100.0           100.0          100.0           100.0           100.0      '.
1971           96.1           109.6          114.0           100.4          113.3           120.0           105.5
1972           93.8           107.9          130.6 ,,        104.2          125.3           140.0           114.9
19            101.9           103.4          160.7           127.3           141.9          200.0           133.3
1974           97.7           107.3          226.8           200.0          113.4           600.0           162.4
1975           91.3           109.0          205.4           215.7           N.2            70.0            180.5
1976          117.3            95.1          166.3           210.5           69.5           940.0           193.0
1977          164.6           116.?          193.7           201.0           93.6           920.0           201.1
1979          192.1           105.0          1".2            215.6           91.9           9.0             231.3
197           173.7           156.2          253.6           253.2          10.2           1340.0           262.1
1960          149.6           242.2          302.3           256.9          117.7          2200.0           297.4
191           165.8           223.0          311.0           249.6           124.6         2460.0           298.8
1962          166.6           12.4           258.2           245.4          105.2          2240.0           29.6
1963          169.9           116.4          m.7             229.4           101.9         2020.0           277.6
196          .165.9          1U.4            246.0           223.0           110.3         1W0.0            m.7
1965          215.8            97.5          U9.4            231.0           ".0           1920.0           275.6
1"6           199.1           116.1         l.1             240.1           80.8           960.0           325.9
1997          180.1           12.9           1".7            2f5.3            75.1         1240.0           360.3
Source: Cetral Bank ot the Republic of Arentin  (KA), and I9   ntimate.
1/  Indice  refer to   rchandie trade.
2/  bsed on curreit US petroleu  index.
3) Nnufacturing Unit Value index of mnufacture  exports from five
industrial market econoie  to developin; contrin   a a cif bais.
March 196



IBRD 20450
-  93BOLIVIA   -   !
}    X ,u1XK7>/s 8@~
d~~~ cVt 1                  i N<PARAGU~AY 
L - ; J, S suut!          t    
4  5 I~YA  LTA1 rx ~R&P AN R     JA
i  W   5l^trA>4 X  eRM0>Ws'                a   B~~~~ R A Z I L
{ (~ATAMARCA              TA
/   // SANT1 E  -IAO                          s
deiipsl Situ.
~~     D~EL   -         CORINE 
ROOS               .tI
,3W                   SAN                                                                    30 L ,SANTA  E
44I     URUGUAY   > 
CHILE                   .                               S
|   M FNDO!ZA JLUIS       vi gI'
~ B.d..B__0                 BUEONS
t  |  4g  t    |  ~~~~SANTA ROASBUEtO   
S    d   3  t   jo   PAMPA          z     aE  L^4 
,    9     NEIN['QUEN:  ':   I                 N
.   f,  -     Rl   it,R)      &}
RINEGRO 
4' ~~~~~~~~~A R  GE N T -I N A
I      Cods )t de eaib l*c f
b l_7    $Z.    CHUBUT       A                          O         c d t
i fl fv \ mo t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rtvens
- ProvRu. bolmndarIms
-       RIVAW.  A                      -.-.int.manonai botmdotles
I   >U~~~~RZX 
d- @    5Xv1  js~~~TIERRA DEL
" _   ,,p,Qf   t XFUEGO
KILOMMERSO    200     4 ,00    t,
MIlU     too 00 20 n    400  50
AUGU   198



