Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2996 AR
(Second Trade Policy Loan)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 14, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2996 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 14, 1988, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (hereinafter 
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter 
the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter of sectoral policy 
dated May 12, 1988 and a letter of development policy dated September  22, 1988 (i) 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies   (hereinafter the Program) 
designed to reform the Borrower's foreign trade regime, with a view to improving 
productivity, and the Borrower's  macro-economic framework; (ii) declaring the  
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance 
from the Bank in the  financing of needed imports and services required during the 
execution of the Program;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to undertake a program of actions, measures and other 
activities aimed at facilitating the execution of the Program and  strengthening the 
Borrower's administration of its trade and industry regimes; and
     (C)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
Page  2
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making  the Loan in two 
tranches and for the financing of services, training and  equipment as hereinafter 
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof  set 
forth below (hereinafter the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
          financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions
          of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such other
          date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
          Bank, the Borrower, through SICE (as defined hereinafter), shall
          prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
          detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
          program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
          performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
          obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
          purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "ISIC" means the International Standard Industrial Classification of All 
Economic Activities (ISIC), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 4/Rev. 1, U.N. Publications Sales No. 58, XVII;
     (c)  "Austral" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
     (d)  "Banco Central" means the Banco Central de la Republica Argentina, the 
Central Bank of the Borrower;
     (e)  "MINEC" means the Ministerio de Economia, the Ministry of Economy of the 
Borrower;
     (f)  "SICE" means the Secretaria de Industria y Comercio Exterior, the 
Secretariat for Industry and Foreign Trade of the Borrower within MINEC;
     (g)  "Hacienda" means the Secretaria de Hacienda, the Secretariat of Finance of 
the Borrower within MINEC;
     (h)  "INDEC" means the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos, the   National 
Institute of Statistics within the Secretariat of Planning of the Borrower;
     (i)  "DGI" means the Direccion General Impositiva, the tax revenue service of the 
Borrower;
     (j)  "Customs Law" means the Borrower's Ley 22.415 of February 5, 1981  ("Codigo 
Aduanero"), Decreto 1001 of May 21, 1982;
     (k)  "CIF" means Cost, Insurance and Freight, within the meaning of the 
Page  3
International Rules for the Interpretation of Trade Terms (Incoterms),  published by 
the International Chamber of Commerce (March 1980);
     (l)  "Industrial Promotion System" means the industrial promotion regimes 
established by Ley 21.608 of July 23, 1977, for the whole country, by Ley  22.021, of 
June 28, 1979, for the province of La Rioja, by Ley 22.702, of December 29, 1982, for 
the provinces of San Luis and Catamarca, by Ley 22.973, of November 11, 1983, for the 
province of San Juan, and by Ley 19.640 of May 16, 1972, for the National Territory of 
Tierra del Fuego, and the executive decrees and ministerial resolutions pertaining 
thereto;
     (m)  "Quantitative Restrictions" means prohibitions and limitations upon the 
importation of goods covered by specified NADI Positions;
     (n)  "NADI Positions" means the denomination of a product in the Borrower's 
Nomenclatura Arancelaria y Derechos de Importacion, or import nomenclature;
     (o)  "NADE Positions" means the denomination of a product in the Borrower's 
Nomenclatura Arancelaria y Derechos de Exportacion, or export nomenclature;
     (p)  "Production Coverage" means, with respect to any one or more NADI Positions 
or NADE Positions, the percentage share of the value of the domestic  manufacturing 
production of the goods denominated by such NADI Positions or NADE Positions in the 
total value of domestic manufacturing production  calculated in the manner and 
according to the methodology agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (q)  "Tariffs" means tariff rates applicable to the CIF value of imports covered 
by specified NADI Positions (ad valorem tariff rates);
     (r)  "Production Weighted Average Tariff Rate" means the arithmetic average of 
all Tariffs for manufactured goods, such Tariffs to be weighted by the Production 
Coverage of the corresponding NADI Position;
     (s)  "Tariff Surcharges" means any surcharges on existing Tariffs applicable to 
imports covered by specified NADI Positions; and
     (t)  "Industrial Goods" means any goods produced by an economic activity 
classified as 3 in the ISIC.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various  
currencies equivalent to three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1989, or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum  for each 
Interest Period (as defined hereinafter) equal to one-half of one percent per annum 
above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings (as defined  hereinafter) for the last Semester 
(as defined hereinafter) ending prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
Page  4
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding
               borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed
               as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) Banco Central is designated as representative of the  Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be  taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  As part of the foregoing, the Borrower hereby entrusts Banco Central  with 
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the  Loan and for 
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be  furnished to the Bank in 
support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall, to the extent 
practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not 
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, no later than October 31, 
1989, and at such other times as requested by either party, exchange views on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified  in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, and on such other matters pertaining to the foregoing as either 
party may request, including without limitation the obligations of the Borrower set 
forth in Sections 3.03, 3.04, and 3.05 of this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) As part of the execution of the Program, the Borrower shall: 
(i) complete DGI's current program for the auditing of about 3,500  beneficiaries 
(empresas promovidas) under the Industrial Promotion System;  (ii) strengthen the 
auditing capacity of SICE so that it can effectively carry  out, on a continuous 
basis, the auditing functions assigned to it by Ley 21,608 of July 23, 1977, and by 
future legislation on industrial promotion, if any; (iii) furnish to the Bank for an 
exchange of views, not later than  November 15, 1988, draft criteria for the 
evaluation of, and decision-making  on, the results of the audits by SICE of 
compliance by beneficiaries (empresas promovidas) under the Industrial Promotion 
System, such criteria to be satisfactory to the Bank; and (iv) prepare a plan of 
action for processing all
cases reported by DGI, referred to in paragraph (a) (i) above, and furnish it to the 
Bank for comments not later than March 15, 1989.
     (b)  For purposes of the foregoing, the Borrower shall: (i) expand the auditing 
unit of SICE through the hiring and training of staff; (ii) appoint a  technical 
assistance coordinator having experience and qualifications  acceptable to the Bank; 
(iii) acquire computing equipment; and (iv) employ or  cause to be employed 
consultants for DGI, Hacienda and SICE whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance   with the principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through Banco Central or SICE, as the case may 
be, shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate records and accounts  adequate 
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound ccounting  practices the 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  5
     (b)  The Borrower, through Banco Central or SICE, as the case may be, shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
               later than four months after the end of each such year, a
               certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through Banco 
Central or SICE, as the case may be, shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
               audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
               from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
               audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall eliminate all Tariff Surcharges established in 
Resolucion from MINEC No. 978, dated September 30, 1985 as  amended by Resolucion from 
MINEC No. 418, dated May 5, 1986, in accordance  with the time schedule set forth in 
the latter Resolucion.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen  which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
     (a)  that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower, including  its 
fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies, is consistent with the objectives of the 
Program;
     (b)  that the Borrower shall have: (i) reduced the Production Coverage of 
Quantitative Restrictions to no more than eighteen percent (18%), and (ii)  achieved 
full automaticity in the import authorization process for all goods  denominated by 
not less than seven thousand eight hundred (7,800) NADI Positions not covered by 
Page  6
Quantitative Restrictions;
     (c)  that the Borrower shall have reduced the Production Weighted Average Rate of 
its overall Tariff protection to thirty percent (30%) of the CIF value of imported 
goods;
     (d)  that the Borrower's Tariffs shall in all cases be no more than forty percent 
(40%) of the CIF value of any imported goods; provided, however, that the Borrower's 
Tariffs for a number of imported goods with a total Production Coverage not exceeding 
three percent (3%) may increase to not more than fifty percent (50%) of the CIF value 
of such imported goods;
     (e)  that the Borrower shall have maintained the total Production  Coverage of 
Tariffs at no less than ninety-three percent (93%);
     (f)  that the Borrower shall not have used Tariff Surcharges for specific 
imported goods other than temporary Tariff Surcharges established in Resolucion from 
MINEC No. 978, dated September 30, 1985 as amended by Resolucion from  MINEC No. 418, 
dated May 5, 1986;
     (g)  that any countervailing duties, anti-dumping duties, or safeguard measures 
that may have been established by the Borrower shall have conformed to the 
requirements of paragraphs (b)(i), (c) and (e) of this Section; and
     (h)  that the Borrower shall have made progress, satisfactory to the Bank,  in 
the program for the auditing of beneficiaries (empresas promovidas) by DGI  pursuant 
to Section 3.03 (a)(i) of this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. The date of February 14, 1989, is hereby specified for the  
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Ministro de Economia  of the Borrower is designated as representative of  the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Economia
          Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
          Buenos Aires
          Argentina
          Cable address:                      Telex:
              MINISTERIO ECONOMIA               121952-AR
              Baires
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
Page  7
                        THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Jorge Sakamoto
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Pieter Bottelier
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds 
of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable  cost of goods (and, in 
the case of the expenditures referred to in paragraph 2(g) of this Schedule, services) 
required during the execution of the Program
and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-groups, 
or any  successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                            tobacco refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco, manufactured
                                            (whether or not con-
                                            taining tobacco sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive and
                                            associated materials
      667                    -              Pearls, precious and
                                            semi-precious stones,
                                            unworked or worked
      718                   718.7           Nuclear reactors, and
                                            parts thereof, fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated for
                                            nuclear reactors
       897                   897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                                            silver or platinum
                                            group metals (except
                                            watches and watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
Page  8
       971                      -           Gold, non-monetary
                                            (excluding gold ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures (other than those related to the actions and measures referred 
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement) in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of sixty million 
dollars ($60,000,000) may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures 
before that date but after July 14, 1988.
     (d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than five 
thousand dollars ($5,000) equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any public national 
or multilateral financing institution or agency shall have financed or agreed to 
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or related purpose or for 
luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in connection with the actions and measures referred to  in 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement which, in the aggregate, exceed the equivalent of two 
million three hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($2,350,000).
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to the Borrower, or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures, 
other than those referred to in paragraph 2(g) of this Schedule,  to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the 
equivalent of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), unless the Bank shall 
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been 
taken.
4.   If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the Bank shall 
have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions  taken are 
not satisfactory and, within ninety days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof, other than the amount required for execution of the actions and measures 
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1994
     through September 15, 2003                     15,000,000
Page  9
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of
     the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
     and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The interest rate (expressed as a
                                         percentage per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding on the Loan
                                         on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                         by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                           1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   (A)  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
five million dollars ($5,000,000) or more each, except contracts  for goods for the 
activities referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement,   shall be awarded through 
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the  Bank in May 1985 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), 
subject to the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is substituted 
therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely manner of
          the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations
          to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
          prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in
          at least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's
          country and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum,
               Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal
               of wide international circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries and territories
               referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of
               the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
Page  10
                "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
                bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
                used in international trade and specified in the bidding
                documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
          (B)  Contracts for the procurement of goods for the activities
          referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement estimated to cost the
          equivalent of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) or
          more each, shall be awarded through international competitive bidding
          in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
          Sections I and II of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for goods, other than the contracts referred to in paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule 3, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than five million dollars 
($5,000,000) each may be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of 
the purchaser of such goods.
3.   Contracts for goods for the activities referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of two hundred and fifty  
thousand dollars ($250,000), may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description
of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to  the Bank of the 
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, 
such documentation and information as the  Bank may reasonably request to support 
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4 and 5 shall not apply to contracts 
on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan  Account on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.       That the Borrower shall have achieved continued compliance with the 
conditions set forth in Section 5.01 (a), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of this Agreement;
2.       that the Borrower shall have: (i) reduced the Production Coverage of  
Quantitative Restrictions to no more than fifteen percent (15%), (ii)  continuously 
maintained compliance with the condition set forth in Section  5.01 (b) (ii), and 
(iii) achieved full automaticity in the import  authorization process for all goods 
not covered by Quantitative Restrictions;
3.       that any countervailing duties, anti-dumping duties, or safeguard measures 
that may have been established by the Borrower shall have conformed to  the 
requirements of paragraph 2 (i) of this Schedule and paragraphs (c) and  (e) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement;
4.       that the Borrower shall have reduced the Production Coverage of export taxes 
on Industrial Goods to no more than seven and one-half percent (7.5%);
5.       that the Borrower shall have eliminated all export controls (intervenciones 
previas y otras restricciones) applying to the exportation of Industrial Goods other 
than export controls (intervenciones previas y otras restricciones) established in: 
(i) a Ley del Congreso de la Nacion, or (ii)  an international agreement, or (iii) a 
Resolucion exclusively for the protection of the environment or the maintenance of 
reasonable health or product quality standards; and
6.       that the Borrower shall have: (i) made progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in 
Page  11
the completion of DGI's program for the auditing of beneficiaries  (empresas 
promovidas) under the Industrial Promotion System; (ii)   strengthened, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, the auditing capacity of  SICE as provided in Section 3.03 
(a)(ii) of this Agreement; (iii) issued regulations (decreto or resolucion 
ministerial) establishing the criteria referred to in Section 3.03 (a)(iii) of this 
Agreement; and (iv) furnished to the Bank the plan of action referred to in Section 
3.03 (a)(iv) of this Agreement, such plan of action to be satisfactory to the Bank.
