Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4605-SN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Rapid Response Child-Focused Social Cash Transfer and Nutrition  
Security Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 12, 2009  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4605-SN 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 12, 2009, between the REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
(
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,800,000) 
(
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the CLM 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the GFRP 
MDTF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its respective effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement) 
have been fulfilled. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time 
responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rue René N’diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar  
Senegal 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
MINIFINANCES  
3203 
G 
 
Dakar 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By: 
 
 
 
         /s/
 
Amadou Lamine Bâ 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
 
 
 
       /s/ Benjamin MacDonald 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce the risk of nutrition insecurity of 
vulnerable populations, in particular children under five in poor rural and urban areas in 
the Recipient’s territory, by scaling up the Recipient’s Nutrition Enhancement Program 
and providing cash transfers to vulnerable mothers of children under five. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Community-based Nutrition  
(a) 
Community-based growth monitoring and promotion of c-IMCI
Promotion of community-based IMCI, CMAM, and monitoring of growth 
through:  
(i) 
carrying out of monthly evaluation of growth of children under 
two years of age with counseling feedback to mothers, home 
visits to children requiring special attention, and cooking 
demonstrations; and 
(ii) 
promotion of recommended infant and young child feeding 
practices, disease preventive measures, particularly malaria 
prevention, by promotion of the use of impregnated bed nets by 
children and pregnant women, home-based care, recognition of 
danger signs and timely care-seeking for sick children, 
all through the provision of Subgrants, technical advisory services, 
goods, minor pharmaceutical drugs and equipment and Operating Costs. 
(b) Micronutrients
Promotion of micronutrients through: 
(i) 
dissemination of information on dietary diversification, vitamin 
supplements, fortified foods such as iodized salt, and de-
worming medication;  
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
referral of children at risk to health centers; and  
(iii) 
support, according to the accepted norms, for the intake of iron 
and Vitamin A supplements by pregnant and post-partum 
women, 
all through the provision of Subgrants, technical advisory services, 
goods, minor pharmaceutical drugs and equipment and Operating Costs. 
Part 2
:
Multi-sectoral Support for Nutrition 
 
Enhancing multi-sectoral support for nutrition through: 
(a) 
updating and strengthening of the annual work plans of MOHP and MOE 
with nutrition-relevant actions;   
(b) 
identification of areas of collaboration between MOHP and MOE, with 
emphasis on: (i) enhancing planning capacity through the elaboration of 
strategic annual work plans; (ii) updating of nutrition-relevant norms for 
the promotion of a strategy to fight anemia; (iii) advocacy for nutrition 
within the health and education sectors; (iv) health and nutrition 
education; and (v) delivery of essential health and nutrition services 
(including supervision by MOHP of community activities implemented 
under Part 1 (a) and (b) of the Project);
 
(c) 
technical assistance to, and coordination with Sector Ministries towards 
creating the right conditions for child growth at community level;  
(d) 
support to the HIV/AIDS through a nutrition strategy;  
(e) 
providing targeted support to the MOHP and MOE for the 
implementation of activities identified in the LE; and 
(f) 
support to COSFAM’s food fortification strategy, 
all through the provision of technical advisory services, training, studies, goods 
and Operating Costs. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Part 3
:
Support for Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of the 
Program
 
Support for implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Program through: 
(a) 
updating of the monitoring system and of community nutrition activities 
and its tools to include enhanced monitoring of Part 4 of the Project; 
(b) 
execution of ad-hoc studies, both quantitative and qualitative, regarding 
child growth, the hungry season, and 
beneficiaries’ satisfaction within 
the monitoring system; and 
(c) 
strengthening of the decision-making process by enhancing analytic 
capacity and accountability at local, district and central levels, 
all through the provision of technical advisory services (including workshops), 
studies and Operating Costs. 
Part 4:  
Cash Transfer 
Increase food consumption of young children in vulnerable households through: 
(a) 
bi-monthly Cash Transfers to Eligible Cash Transfer Beneficiaries; and 
(b) 
carrying out of a strong communications and monitoring campaign, the 
provision of technical advisory services (including workshops) and 
Operating Costs. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. General
 
1. 
The Recipient shall: (i) carry out the Project in conformity with the PIM; and 
(ii) not amend, abrogate or waive the PIM or any provision thereof if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment, abrogation or waiver will 
materially affect the implementation of the Project. 
B. Central 
level 
1. 
CLM 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain the CLM with composition, terms of 
reference and resources satisfactory to the Association.  Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the CLM shall be composed of, 
among others, representatives of the MOHP, MEF, MOE, the Ministry of 
Family, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Local Government, 
the Ministry in charge of Planning, and LG associations. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause CLM to be responsible for policy development 
and implementation coordination and oversight.  Without limitation to 
the generality of the foregoing, the CLM shall contribute in the 
elaboration of a policy and strategies for nutrition; monitor and 
coordinate implementation; review and approve proposals from 
implementing partners (CEAs and Sector Ministries); and review and 
approve annual work plans and budgets of BEN.   
2.
 BEN 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain BEN with composition, terms of reference 
and resources satisfactory to the Association.  BEN shall be headed by a 
national coordinator, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, 
including a financial management specialist, an internal auditor, an 
accountant, a senior finance officer, an operations and monitoring 
officer, a procurement specialist, a communication specialist, a public 
health nutrition specialist, and a program assistant.   
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
(i) 
The Recipient shall cause BEN to act as the secretariat of CLM 
and be responsible for day-to-day activities.  BEN will 
coordinate and consolidate annual work plans and budgets, and 
oversee financial management, procurement and monitoring and 
evaluation of activities.  BEN shall station representatives at the 
regional level to oversee, guide and coordinate the 
implementation of community-based activities between the 
various stakeholders and partner institutions, sign contractual 
agreements with LGs and 
“Lettres d’Exécution”
 with Sector 
Ministries after their approval by the CLM, oversee the day-to-
day management of the Program; provide technical assistance, in 
collaboration with Sector Ministries elaborate guidelines and 
other reference documents, liaise with donors of the program, 
and conduct studies and surveys on nutrition.   
(ii) 
The financial management staff of BEN will report to the 
director in charge of debt and investment in the MEF, and be 
responsible for collection of invoices; keeping of books of 
account; entering of data in the accounting software; monitoring 
of disbursements; preparation of IFRs as well as the annual 
Financial Statements; and ensuring that annual audits are carried 
out in a timely manner.   
C. Regional 
level 
1.
 BER 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain BERs with composition, terms of reference 
and resources satisfactory to the Association.  Each BER shall be staffed 
with one office administrator, assisted by technical and financial staff.   
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that regional representatives of BER guide 
and assist LG in the performance of their duties, monitor day-to-day 
operations, including financial management, and facilitate coordination 
amongst partners at regional level including CEA, LG, public services 
and regional authorities. 
2. 
DCM 
(a) 
The Recipient shall create DCMs in the relevant districts for the 
implementation of Part 4 of the Project with composition, terms of 
reference and resources satisfactory to the Association.  Each DCM shall 
Page  11
-
10
-
be composed of the 
“sous-préfet”
,
the attendant of the medical post 
(“
infirmier chef de poste”), 
and
 
members of the CADL, SADS, and the 
Social Affairs Commissions 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the DCMs shall: (i) provide technical 
assistance to the LGs for the identification of Eligible Cash Transfer 
Beneficiaries; and (ii) review and validate the proposed list of Eligible 
Cash Transfer Beneficiaries received from the CEA and communicate 
the validated list to CLM for processing. 
D. Local 
level 
1.
 Local 
Governments 
The Recipient shall support the LGs to: (i) incorporate nutrition and nutrition 
indicators in the Local Agendas; (ii) select the villages in which interventions 
will be carried out; (iii) select one CEA to which it will contract out the 
community-based nutrition interventions according to the criteria in the PIM; 
(iv) prepare and submit to CLM for approval Subproject proposals; (v) monitor 
activities and report to the CLM, (vi) set up Local Selection Committees with 
composition, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Association and 
comprising the community Nutrition Aides, religious leaders and local 
representatives. 
2.
 Communities 
Under the supervision of a CEA, each community shall set up a Management 
Committee to oversee the activities under Part 1 of the Project.  The Community 
Management Committee shall: (i) identify and mobilize members of the 
community to operate as Nutrition Aides; (ii) facilitate the setting up of sites for 
Nutrition Aides to conduct monthly growth promotion activities and provide 
other support, as necessary; and (iii) strengthen its capacity to analyze and 
respond to local nutrition problems. 
3. 
Local Selection Committees
 
Under the supervision of a LG, each Local Selection Committee shall: 
(i) organize the information for the community and plan the community meetings 
for the purpose of Part 4 of the Project; (ii) identify the potential Eligible Cash 
Transfer Beneficiaries in accordance with the criteria set forth in the PIM; and 
(iii) send list of Eligible Cash Transfer Beneficiaries to the relevant CEA and 
DCM. 
Page  12
-
11
-
E. Anti-Corruption 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (1) above, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the Recipient’s agencies and service providers which are required to 
provide services under the Project, including, without limitation, Payment 
Service Providers, are made aware of the requirements of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines and take all actions necessary to support the carrying out of the 
Project in accordance with such requirements. 
F. Annual 
Work 
Programs 
 
No later than May 15, 2009, and no later than December 15 each year thereafter, 
the Recipient shall cause the BEN to prepare, and furnish to the Association, for 
review and approval, an annual work program and budget for the next Fiscal 
Year, including investments, incremental Operating Costs, and amounts needed 
for the Cash Transfers, and subject to comments by the Association, shall 
proceed with the implementation of the agreed annual work program.
 
G. Cash 
Transfers
 
(a) 
For the implementation of Part 4 (a) of the Project, the Recipient shall 
provide, or cause to be provided through one or more Payment Service 
Providers, Cash Transfers to Eligible Cash Transfer Beneficiaries in 
accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the 
Association, and described in the Project Implementation Manual. 
(b) 
Each Cash Transfer shall be in an amount acceptable to the Association 
and the Recipient and shall reflect the reasonable cost of increasing the 
Eligible Cash Transfer Beneficiary’s food consumption for young 
children in her household. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the amount of each Cash Transfer is used 
by the Beneficiary for its intended purpose. 
(d) 
The Recipient shall conclude and thereafter implement, until it has 
expired in accordance with its terms, a service agreement, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association and in the form and in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the PIM, with 
one or more Payment Service Providers acceptable to the Association for 
Page  13
-
12
-
the payment of Cash Transfers to Beneficiaries 
(each a “Service 
Agreement”).  The Recipient shall ensure that each Service Agreement 
is: (A) submitted to the Association for its review and approval prior to 
its signature between the Recipient and a Payment Service Provider; and 
(B) signed and effective before any proceeds of the Financing is 
transferred to the Payment Service Provider. 
(e) 
The Recipient shall ensure that each Payment Service Provider complies 
with its obligations under its Service Agreement with the Recipient and 
promptly inform the Association in case of a breach of the terms of the 
Service Agreement by a Payment Service Provider. 
H. Subprojects
 
1. General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A of this Schedule, the Recipient 
shall cause each LG to appraise, approve and monitor the implementation of 
Subprojects in accordance with the provisions of this Part H and the PIM. 
2. 
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing under Part 1 of the Project 
unless the CLM shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with this Section and the guidelines set forth in the PIM, that the 
proposed Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria set forth in the PIM, 
including, but not limited to, the following:  
(a) 
the Subproject shall, as set forth in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, be for community-based nutrition interventions; 
(b) 
the Subproject shall be implemented by a Subproject Beneficiary which 
shall facilitate the establishment of a Community Management 
Committee to act on its behalf and the selection of nutrition aides to 
implement the activities at community level;  
(c) 
the Subproject Beneficiary must have legal status, so that it may enter 
into a Subgrant Agreement with the LG, open and manage a bank 
account and enter into contracts with private sector operators, as 
required; 
Page  14
-
13
-
(d) 
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and technically viable 
in accordance with the standards specified in the PIM;  
(e) 
the Subproject shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of grant proceeds 
other than the Recipient; and 
(f) 
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Recipient relating to health, safety 
and environmental protection.  
3. 
Terms and Conditions of Subgrant Agreements
(a) 
A Subproject shall be carried out pursuant to a Subgrant Agreement, to 
be concluded between the LG concerned and a Subproject Beneficiary, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and in the 
form of the model agreement set forth in the PIM which, 
inter alia,
 shall 
include the following:  
(i) 
the Subgrant shall be provided on a non-reimbursable grant 
basis;  
(ii) 
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
PIM, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, social, environmental and managerial 
standards;  
(iii) 
the obligation to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;  
(iv) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Subgrant shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as further specified in the 
PIM, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;  
(v) 
the requirement that CEAs regularly conduct monitoring and 
evaluation surveys at the beginning and end of the Project, using 
Page  15
-
14
-
tools, sampling and data collection methods satisfactory to the 
Association;  
(vi) 
the requirement that the Subproject Beneficiary open a bank 
account for the deposit of Subgrant funds in a commercial bank 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and 
provide the account details to the LG concerned; 
(vii) 
the right of the LG and / or CLM to inspect by themselves or 
jointly with the Association, if the Association shall so request, 
the goods, works, sites, plants and construction included in the 
Subproject, the operations thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;  
(viii) 
the right of the LG and / or CLM to obtain all information as 
they, and / or the Association, shall reasonably request regarding 
the administration, operation and financial conditions of the 
Subproject; and  
(ix) 
the right of the LG concerned to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Subproject Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Subgrant 
for the Subproject, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the 
amount of the Subgrant for the Subproject then withdrawn, upon 
the failure by the Subproject Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under the Subgrant Agreement.  
(b) 
The LG shall exercise its rights under the Subgrant Agreement in such 
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Association and 
to achieve the Project objectives, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the LG shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subgrant Agreement or any substantive provision thereof.
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project, 
including, without limitation, the Service Agreement(s) and the 
performance of the Payment Service Provider(s) thereunder, and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
Page  16
-
15
-
period of a calendar trimester, and shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
A
consolidated Project Report covering the period of one calendar year 
shall be furnished to the Association no later than 90 days after the end 
of the period covered by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
(i) 
the percentage of the target population reached by the Program at 
community level; 
(ii) 
the percentage of mothers providing exclusive breastfeeding for 
the first six months; 
(iii) 
the number of Cash Transfer Beneficiaries; and 
(iv) 
the percentage of selected Cash Transfer Beneficiaries who 
receive all intended Cash Transfers. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, IFRs for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association.  The first un-audited financial report shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first 
calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each un-audited financial report shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall 
cover such calendar quarter.  
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Page  17
-
16
-
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.  In addition to 
expressing an opinion on the Project Financial Statements, the auditors shall 
prepare: (i) a report on internal controls; and (ii) management letters with 
observations and recommendations for improvement in accounting records, 
systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in this Agreement. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
(other 
than consultant services)
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and services (other than consultant services)
 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than 
consultant services).  
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, 
other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, 
works and services (other than consultant services).  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Direct Contracting 
(c) Procurement from the United Nations Agencies 
(d) Shopping 
(e) Community participation in procurement 
(f)  Limited International Bidding 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2
 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
For the purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for consulting services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent, per contract, may include only consultants from the country of the 
Borrower 
3.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection based on consultant
s’ qualifications 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Single Source Selection  
(d) Fixed Budget Selection 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Subgrants for 
Subprojects  under 
Part 1 of the Project 
3,520,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(2) Drugs, 
pharmaceutical 
equipment, 
consultants services, 
including the fees 
due to the Payment 
Service Providers 
pursuant to the terms 
of the relevant 
Service Agreement 
(but excluding Cash 
Transfers), audits 
and Training for the 
Project 
2,800,000 100% 
 
(3) Operating Costs 
for the Project 
 480,000 100% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,800,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
Page  20
-
19
-
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
(b) 
under Category (1), for Region B, and after the written approval of the 
Association, for Region A, unless the first Subgrant Agreement shall 
have been furnished to the Association for its prior approval and found to 
have been made in accordance with the procedures and under the terms 
and conditions referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and set forth 
in detail in the PIM. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
update the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, to reflect criteria and mechanisms 
related to the implementation of Part 4 of the Project; and 
(b) 
recruit an external auditor under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2019 to and including 
March 15, 2029 
1% 
commencing September 15, 2029 to and including 
March 15, 2049. 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  22
-
21
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. “BEN” 
means 
Bureau Exécutif National, 
the executive bureau of the CLM, 
responsible for the management of all activities under the Project and established 
by 
Arrêté 
No. 010062/PM/Cab/DC dated December 26, 2001 of the Prime 
Minister. 
3. 
“BER” means 
Bureau Exécutif Régional
,
the regional branch of BEN responsible 
for supporting and coordinating the implementation of nutrition and growth 
promotion interventions within the assigned regions. 
4. 
“c-IMCI” means community-based Integrated Management of Childhood 
Illnesses at community level, one of three pillars of IMCI promoted by the World 
Health Organization. 
5. 
“CADL” means the Recipient’s Local Development Support Center. 
6. 
“Cash Transfer” means a transfer of funds in the form of a non-refundable grant 
by the Recipient to an Eligible Cash Transfer Beneficiary following the 
provisions of Part 4(a) of the Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement, made or to 
be made in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Manual, with the aim of increasing food consumption of young children in 
vulnerable households. 
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
8. 
“CBO” means a community-based organization established and operating under 
the Recipient’s laws.   
9. “CLM” 
means 
Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition
,
within multi-sectoral 
coordination unit within the Office of the Prime Minister and responsible for 
implementation, coordination and monitoring of the Program in the Recipient’s 
territory. 
Page  23
-
22
-
10. 
“COSFAM” means the national community for food fortification of the Recipient 
(
Comité Sénégalais pour la fortification Alimentaire
). 
11. 
“Community Executing Agency” and “CEA” mean a CBO, NGO, parastatal, 
public or private sector entity, association, or institution, selected to enter into a 
Subgrant Agreement with LG for the carrying out of nutrition related activities, 
growth promotion and small-scale food security interventions approved under a 
Subproject.  
12. 
“Community Management Committee” or “CMC” means the committee of the 
community which under the supervision of the community leader provides 
support to the Nutrition Aides in conducting their activities.   
13. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006.  
14. 
“CMAM” means the Community Management of Acute Malnutrition. 
15. 
“DCM” means the District-level Monitoring Committee to be set up pursuant to 
the terms of Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
16. 
“Dollar” means the United States Dollar. 
17. 
“Eligible Cash Transfer Beneficiaries” means vulnerable mothers (or surrogate 
mothers in case of death) with children under five years of age in the most 
affected urban and rural areas, who are deemed eligible for Cash Transfers under 
the terms and conditions set forth in the PIM. 
18. 
“Fiscal Year” means a period of twelve consecutive months from January 1 to 
the next December 31. 
19. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
20. 
“GFRP MDTF” means the Global Food Crisis Response Program Multi-Donor 
Trust Fund.  
Page  24
-
23
-
21. 
“GFRP MDTF Grant” means the grant in the amount of eight million Dollars 
($8,000,000) to be provided by the Association, acting as trustee of the GFRP 
MDTF, to assist in financing the Project. 
22. 
“GFRP MDTF Grant Agreement” means the agreement between the Association, 
acting as trustee of the GFRP MDTF and the Recipient providing for the GFRP 
MDTF Grant. 
23. 
“IMCI” means Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses. 
24. 
“Interim un-audited Financial Report” or “IFR” means the report on the basis of 
which disbursements will take place, as referred to in Part B (2) of Section II of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and which: (i) sets forth the sources and uses of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing funds provided under the Designated Account, and Project 
Account, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; (ii) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned Project implementation; (iii) sets forth the status 
of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report; and (iv) contains financial forecasts for the subsequent two quarters. 
25. 
“LDP” or “Local Development Plan” means an investment plan for local 
development of rural administrative units (
"communauté rurale"
)
and urban 
administrative units (
"commune"
)
of the Recipient over a five-year period, and 
elaborated by the LG as part of the decentralization process, as such plan may be 
amended from time to time.   
26. 
“LE” or “
Lettre d’Exécution”
 means the Implementation Agreement entered into 
between CLM and each Sector Ministry and setting forth nutrition related 
activities and services and financial arrangements thereof, to be carried out by the 
respective Sector Ministry in accordance with a Work Program approved by 
CLM.  
27. 
“LG” means local government.  
28. 
“Local Agendas” means all planning and budget instruments developed for the 
CLs (including the LDPs). 
29. 
“Local Selection Committee” or “LSC” means the local committee selected with 
representatives of the Social Affairs Committees, the LGs, extended with 
religious leaders, village chiefs and Nutrition Aides. 
Page  25
-
24
-
30. 
“Ministry of Agriculture” means the Recipient’s ministry responsible for 
agriculture. 
31. 
“Ministry of Economy and Finance” or “MEF” means the Recipient’s ministry 
responsible for economy and finance. 
32. 
“Ministry of Education” or “MOE” means the Recipient’s ministry responsible 
for education.  
33. 
“Ministry of Family” means the Recipient’s ministry responsible for the family, 
national solidarity, women’s 
entreprenariat
 and micro-finance. 
34. 
“Ministry of Health and Prevention” or “MOHP” means the Recipient’s ministry 
responsible for health and disease prevention.  
35. 
“Ministry of Local Government” means the Recipient’s ministry responsible for 
local administration. 
36. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating under 
the laws of the Recipient.  
37. 
“NSPS” means the National Protection Strategy adopted by the Recipient for the 
period 2005 through 2015. 
38. “
Nutrition Aide
”
means a person selected by the community to provide 
preventive nutrition and child growth promotion assistance under the Project.  
39. 
“Operating Costs” means  the incremental expenses incurred by the BEN under 
the Project on account of audit costs, office rental fees, equipment and supplies, 
office administration costs, utilities, communication and insurance costs, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, travel, per diem and supervision costs, salaries of 
locally contracted employees but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient's 
civil service.  
40. 
“Payment Service Provider” a person or entity that has entered into a Service 
Agreement with the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section I, 
Part G, paragraph (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  26
-
25
-
41. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006.  
42. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 13, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
43. 
“Program” or “Nutrition Enhancement Program” (known in French as 
Programme de Renforcement de la Nutrition
)
means the Recipient’s program 
designed to improve the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups of the 
Recipient’s population with a view to: (i) strengthening poverty reduction 
strategy and efforts; and (ii) facilitating economic development,
 
and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated January 25, 2002 and updated in June 2006 from the 
Recipient to the Association (the “Program Letter”).  
44. 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual for the Second 
Nutrition Enhancement Project (Credit 4245-SE) dated December 5, 2006, to be 
updated pursuant to Section V.1.a of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, setting forth, 
among other things: (i) eligibility criteria for the selection of Subprojects, terms 
and conditions for Sub-Grant Agreements, Work Programs, including 
procurement and accounting procedures thereof; (ii) eligibility criteria, detailed 
rule and procedures for the Cash Transfer payments, the required terms of the 
Service Agreements, and arrangements for environmental and social monitoring 
and mitigation; and (iii) the procedures and guidelines for the coordination, 
management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including detailed 
performance indicators, training plans and capacity building programs and other 
activities and arrangements to be used for the purposes of implementing the 
Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the 
Association’s prior written consent, and such term includes any schedules to the 
PIM. 
45. 
“Regions A” means the Recipient’s regions of Matam, Kedougou, Tambacounda, 
Kaolack, Kaffrine, Sedhiou and Louga in which Sub-Grants will be implemented 
under Part 1 of the Project, solely through the proceeds of the GFRP MDTF 
Grant. 
46. 
“Regions B” means all regions of the Recipient, other than the Regions A. 
47. 
“SADS” means the Recipient’s Social Development Support Service. 
Page  27
-
26
-
48. 
“Sector Ministries” means, for purposes of the Project, any ministry representing 
a
sector such as health, education, agriculture or commerce, which have a role in 
nutrition. 
49. 
“Service Agreement” has the meaning ascribed to that expression in Section I, 
Part G (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
50. 
“Social Affairs Commission” means the body of the local council responsible for 
social matters. 
51. 
“Strategic Work Plan” means the preventive nutritional activities and services 
and the information, education and communication campaigns included in a work 
program prepared by each Sector Ministry, and approved by CLM, and to be 
financed under the Project. 
52. 
“Subgrant” means a grant made or to be made out of the proceeds of the Credit to 
a
Subproject Beneficiary for the carrying out of a Subproject. 
53. 
“Subproject” means: (i) a nutrition-related service or activity, including child 
growth promotion; and (ii) a small-scale household food security related activity, 
to be carried out by a Subproject Beneficiary and utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sugbrant. 
54. 
“Subproject Beneficiary” means the person or entity to benefit from Subgrants 
awarded for Subprojects, as hereby defined.
 
