Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GFRP MDTF GRANT NUMBER TF094372 
 
Global Food Crisis Response Program 
Multi-Donor Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Rapid Response Child-Focused Social Cash Transfer and Nutrition  
Security Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
acting as Trustee of 
the Global Food Crisis Response Program Multi-Donor Trust Fund 
 
Dated June 12, 2009 
 
Page  2
GFRP MDTF GRANT NUMBER TF094372 
FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSE MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 2009, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
SENEGAL 
(“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“World Bank”), acting as trustee of the Global Food Crisis Response 
Program Multi-Donor Trust Fund. 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions, this 
Agreement or the Financing Agreement of the same date as this Agreement 
between the Recipient and IDA (“IDA Financing Agreement”). 
Article II 
The Project 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program and the 
project described in Schedule 1 to the IDA Financing Agreement (“Project”). To 
this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the CLM in accordance 
with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
Article III 
The Grant 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to eight 
million United States Dollars ($8,000,000) (the 
“Grant”) to assist in financing the 
Project.  
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
3.03 
In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient may 
withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds. 
Article IV  
Remedies of the Association 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof will be carried out. 
Article V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the condition specified 
below has been satisfied: the IDA Financing Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
5.02. 
Except as the Recipient and the 
World Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the effective 
date on which this Agreement shall enter into effect shall be the date upon which 
the 
World Bank
 dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the 
Effective Date, any event has occurred which would have entitled the 
World Bank 
to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
if this Agreement had been effective, the 
World Bank
 may postpone the dispatch 
of the notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) 
ceased to exist.  
5.03. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless 
the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a 
Page  4
3
later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date.
 
Article VI 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rue René N’diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar  
Senegal 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
MINIFINANCES  
3203 
G 
 
Dakar 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  5
4
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
         /s/
 
Amadou Lamine Bâ 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as Trustee of the Global Food Crisis Response Program  
 
Multi-Donor Trust Fund 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
       /s/ Benjamin MacDonald 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements 
1. 
Sections I, II, III and V of Schedule 2 to the IDA Financing Agreement are 
hereby incorporated by reference and apply, to the extent relevant or appropriate, 
to the Grant, and the Recipient undertakes to comply with the provisions thereof, 
with modifications as shown below to the following terms, wherever they appear 
in said Sections, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a) 
the term “Association” shall be read as World Bank; 
(b) 
the term “Credit” or “Financing” shall be read as the Grant; 
(c) 
the term “Recipient” shall be read as the Recipient of the Grant. 
(d) 
reference to Sections 4.08 and 4.09 of the General Conditions under the 
IDA Financing Agreement shall be replaced by Sections 2.06 and 2.07 of 
the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
So long as any part of the Financing provided for under the IDA Financing 
Agreement shall remain outstanding, and unless the Recipient has been notified 
otherwise by the World Bank: 
 
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association pursuant 
to Sections I, II, III and V of Schedule 2 to the IDA Financing 
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on 
behalf of both the Association and the World Bank; and 
 
(b) 
any information or documentation furnished by the Recipient to the 
Association pursuant to the provisions of any of such Sections of the 
IDA Financing Agreement shall be deemed to be furnished to both the 
Association and World Bank. 
Section II. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section, and such 
Page  7
6
additional instructions as the World Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed in 
USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Grants for 
Subprojects for 
Regions A under 
Part 1 of the Project
3,100,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(2) Cash Transfers 
for Part 4 of the 
Project 
 4,900,000  100% 
 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
 8,000,000   
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b) 
under Category (1), unless the first Sub-grant Agreement under the Grant 
shall have been furnished to the World Bank for its prior approval and 
found to have been made in accordance with the procedures and under 
the terms and conditions referred to in Schedule 2 to the IDA Financing 
Agreement and set forth in detail in the PIM; and 
(c) 
under Category (2), unless: (i) the Project Implementation Manual has 
been updated to reflect criteria and mechanisms related to the 
implementation of Part 4 of the Project; and (ii) the Recipient shall have 
entered into a first Service Agreement in accordance with Section I 
Page  8
7
Part G (d) of Schedule 2 to the IDA Financing Agreement, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
December 31, 2011.
 
