                         Document of
                    The World Bank
                                                     Report No: 65826-SN




                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                            ON A

          PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                           OF THE

RAPID RESPONSE CHILD FOCUSED SOCIAL CASH TRANSFER AND
             NUTRITION SECURITY PROJECT

                      CREDIT 4605-SN
            (Approved by the Board on May 6, 2009)

                          TO THE

                  REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL




                      December 1, 2011
                     RESTRUCTURING OF THE
SENEGAL RAPID RESPONSE CHILD FOCUSED SOCIAL CASH TRANSFER AND
                  NUTRITION SECURITY PROJECT
                Credit No 4605-SN - Project ID P115938




                    Vice President:     Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
           Acting Country Director:     McDonald Benjamin
                    Sector Director     Ritva S. Reinikka
            Acting Sector Manager:      Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine
                Task Team Leader:       Menno Mulder-Sibanda




                                  ~2~
~3~
 SENEGAL RAPID RESPONSE CHILD FOCUSED SOCIAL CASH TRANSFER
              AND NUTRITION SECURITY PROJECT
                Credit No 4605-SN - Project ID P115938


                               RESTRUCTURING PAPER


1.      This paper seeks the approval of the Country Director for:

     a. a first extension of the closing date for the Senegal Rapid Response Child
        Focused Social Cash Transfer and Nutrition Security Project (Credit No. 4605-
        SN; Trust Fund Grant TF094372) from December 31, 2011 to August 31, 2012;
        and

     b. a reallocation of the IDA proceeds as follows:

        Category of Expenditure                Allocation (SDR)    % of Financing
Current                       Revised         Current     Revised Current Revised
1. Sub-grants for Part 1 of     i.d.         3,520,000 5,320,000    52       78
the Project
2. Drugs, pharmaceuticals,      i.d.         2,800,000    1,200,000       41         18
equipment, consultancies,
audit and training
3. Operating costs              i.d            480,000      280,000       7          4
Total                                        6,800,000    6,800,000

2.     The proposed extension of closing date and reallocation of credit proceeds has
been requested by the Government of Senegal in a letter from the Ministry of Economy
and Finance, dated October 17, 2011 and is designed to ensure continued effectiveness of
the program, notably the community nutrition subprojects by Local Governments.

3.      Project Progress. The project was approved by the Board on May 6, 2009. The
credit of SDR 6.8 million (equivalent to US$10.7 million) and a Trust Fund grant of
US$8.0 million became effective on September 11, 2009. As of December 1, 2011,
2011, US$ 7.0 million) of the credit and US$5.9 of the Trust Fund grant (equivalent to
approximately 69 percent of the total credit and Trust Fund grant financing) had been
disbursed. The current closing date is December 31, 2011.

4.     The development objective of the proposed Child-Focused Social Cash Transfer
and Nutrition Security Project is to reduce the risk of nutrition insecurity of vulnerable
populations, in particular children under five in poor rural and urban areas, by scaling up
the Government Nutrition Enhancement Program and providing cash transfers to
vulnerable mothers of children under five. The project has four components; components
1-3 focus on protecting and promoting the nutritional security of mothers and young
children by scaling up and intensifying the existing Government Nutrition Enhancement

                                          ~1~
Program (known by its French acronym PRN) package of community-based nutrition and
health services and activities. The project components are as follows:
Component 1 - community-based nutrition activities.
Component 2 - multi-sectoral support to nutrition results.
Component 3 - support to the implementation and monitoring and evaluation capacity.
Component 4, the child-focused social cash transfer is a rapid response mechanism to
mitigate the adverse effects of high food prices on young children in vulnerable families
by providing additional resources to these households.

5.     The project's performance is rated highly satisfactory, with all indicators but one
having surpassed the end-of-project targets. Project management is performing very
well, with implementation progress rated highly satisfactory in all areas but financial
management, which is rated satisfactory. All legal covenants have been complied with.
There are no outstanding audit reports, and the 2010 audit report is acceptable to the
Bank.

6.      The project remains highly relevant especially in the wake of external economic
shocks and the government’s fiscal austerity measures which will need to be balanced
with mitigating actions in the social sector. As a result of the sharp increase of food
prices and a decrease in remittances, living conditions of the poorest households are
deteriorating, with an increase in the level of household indebtedness and a reduction in
the quality and frequency of meals, thus increasing food insecurity and malnutrition.

7.      The project supports two sets of appropriate cost-effective programs: (i) one that
offsets the income effect of the shock through targeted social cash transfers; and (ii) one
that seeks to mitigate its consequences on human development outcomes such as the
health and nutrition status of children. The project finances the costs associated with the
accelerated scaling up of the PRN and the development and implementation of a child
focused social cash transfer component. As of June 30, 2011, 22,639 mothers of children
under five have benefitted from the cash transfer program. This number is set to increase
in the first quarter of 2012 when beneficiaries in four-hard-to reach Regions (Sedhiou,
Matam, Tambacounda and Kédéghou) will receive their allocations.

8.      As the cash transfer scheme is being rolled out, we are finding that many of the
target beneficiaries are located in some of the hardest to reach areas of Senegal, where no
formal payment service provider operates. In those situations, ad-hoc arrangements have
to be set up including security arrangements. This has caused some delays in maintaining
the schedule of cash transfers planned at the launch of the project in 2009.

9.      Extension of Closing Date. The extension is needed to provide sufficient time to
the client to absorb the implementation delays of the cash transfer program in extremely
difficult conditions, and fully disburse the proceeds of the credit and Trust Fund grant.
Current disbursement rates, which are 65% of the credit and 74% of the Trust Fund grant,
are satisfactory, and based on the implementation capacity of the implementing agency,
full disbursement is expected to be achieved by the extended closing date of the project.

                                          ~2~
This will be the first extension of the project. The associated Trust Fund TF094372 will
also be extended along with the IDA credit.

10.     The reallocation of the credit proceeds is needed to enhance project
effectiveness by ensuring the funding for the program’s central component on sub-grants
for community nutrition sub-projects. The reallocation aims to strengthen the support to
the cash transfer program and maintain the coverage and strengthen the intensity of the
community-based activities, particularly in light of the negative impact of the external
economic shocks on poverty and nutrition. The reallocation is made possible because of
economies made on the categories of drugs and pharmaceutical supplies, consulting
services, training, audits and operating costs over the course of the project
implementation, mainly as the result of new support from other donor sources and and/or
increased Government contributions. No changes are being made to the development
objectives,      outcomes,       design,      or     scope       of     the     project.




                                         ~3~
