 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14866

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 09/29/2015

               Country: Georgia
             Project ID: P110126                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Regional And                  Project Costs (US$M):                      65.4                120.4
                         Municipal
                         Infrastructure
                         Development Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       40.0                 83.6
      Sector Board:      Urban Development            Cofinancing (US$M):                          0                  3.6

           Cofinanciers: European Commission          Board Approval Date :                                  10/02/2008
                         Trust Fund (ECTF)                     Closing Date:             06/30/2013          12/31/2014
          Sector(s):     Water   supply  (30%); Housing construction (25%);  Urban  Transport (20%);  Sanitation (20%);
                         Sub-national government administration (5%)
          Theme(s):      Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (20%); Municipal governance and
                         institution building (20%); Other Private Sector Development (20%); Urban services and
                         housing for the poor (20%); Infrastructure services for private sector development (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          John R. Eriksson        Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective was "to: (a) improve the efficiency and reliability of selected municipal
infrastructure and service; and (b) assist in restoring infrastructure and services and in improving housing conditions
for conflict affected people of the Recipient [Georgia]" (Financing Agreement dated October 3, 2008, p.5; Project
Appraisal Document, p.5).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

Component 1: Infrastructure Investment (appraised US$41.6 million; IBRD/IDA additional financing (AF) of US$43.5
million; actual US$95.3 million) comprised two sub-components: (i) provision of financial resources to creditworthy
local self-governments (LSGs) to finance investment sub-projects for rehabilitation and expansion of priority municipal
services and infrastructure on a sustainable basis; and (ii) provision of financing on a grant basis to carry out
investment sub-projects for municipal services and infrastructure projects in non- creditworthy LSGs. Through AF in
2010, the activities were scaled up and municipal gas was added as an eligible sector.

Component 2: Emergency Rehabilitation and Construction (appraised US$20 million; actual US$22.4 million) was to
provide emergency rehabilitation of conflict- damaged regional and municipal infrastructure and services, including
public buildings and shelters and construction of durable housing.

Component 3: Institutional Development (appraised US$3.8 million; IBRD/IDA AF of US$1.5 million; actual US$2.6
million) was to enhance the institutional capacity and performance of the Ministry of Finance (MoF), the Municipal
Development Fund, LSGs, and utilities in delivery of public services in an economic and efficient manner. Through AF
in 2010, a new activity was added on preparing strategic development plans for a selected number of cities in support
of the regional development program of Georgia.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The total project cost was US$120.4 million at closure, almost double of the appraisal estimate of
US$65.4 million due to scale-up in the project scope and additional activities.

Financing: The original IDA credit of US$40 million was complemented by an additional IDA financing of US$11.5
million and an additional IBRD loan of US$33.5 million approved on November 2, 2010 to scale up the project
activities through rehabilitation of additional municipal services and infrastructure throughout the country (Component
1), and preparation of strategic development plans for a selected number of cities (Component 3). Co-financing was
through a US$3.7 million- equivalent grant from the European Commission Trust Fund (ECTF), which was approved
in September 2010 to support infrastructure restoration and improvement in housing conditions in conflict- affected
areas under Component 2; it was disbursed at US$3.6 million by project closure. During implementation in September
2012, a Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) trust fund grant was approved in the amount of US$1.48
million- equivalent to finance a wastewater treatment plant sub-project in Mtskheta; however it was fully cancelled due
to delays in preparing and adopting the city's Master Plan, as per UNESCO requirements, because the location was
part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site (ICR, p.15).

Borrower contribution : The Government contributed US$10.5 million, close to the agreed commitment of US$10.8
million. The local governments' financing doubled from US$7.9 million to US$14.6 million, and the financing from local
sources (the Municipal Development Fund's contribution from its revolving fund) increased from the appraised US$6.7
million to US$8 million by project closure.

Dates: The project closing date was extended by 18 months during project restructuring in 2013 to complete a road
sub-project and the three cities' development strategies and related public consultations. During AF in 2010, the
results framework and monitoring indicators were revised to reflect the increased scope of the project (see section 10
below).


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
Following years of rapid economic growth, Georgia experienced a sharp economic downturn resulting from the August
2008 military conflict with Russia and the global financial crisis. The conflict resulted in damage to selected
infrastructure and public buildings in the conflict- affected areas and created an urgent need to prepare adequate
shelters and appropriate durable housing, in particular for an estimated 30,000 internally displaced people. The
project development objectives were consistent with the Government's response to the crisis to help resume the
economic growth, in particular its focus on improvement of infrastructure services. The project objectives remain
relevant to the World Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for Georgia FY2014-2017, which aims to help strengthen
public service delivery to promote inclusion and equity. Decentralization and the leading role of sub-national units in
stimulating local economic processes are seen as very important factors for achieving national development.

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial.
The statement of the development objectives was clear, and there was a clear causal chain between the activities
financed by the project and outcomes related to the attainment of the project development objectives. For example,
the investments in rehabilitation of roads, street lighting, water system, and sewerage treatment networks
(Component 1), reinforced by technical and institutional support to local self-governments (Component 3), were
intended to improve the efficiency and reliability of selected municipal infrastructure and service. The investments in
roads, water and sanitation, as well as construction of durable housing in conflict areas were intended to assist in
restoring infrastructure and services and in improving housing conditions for conflict affected people in Georgia.

The project was designed to utilize a mix of lending and grant instruments targeting both creditworthy municipalities
and those in financial straits or small municipalities with no credit capacity to help them implement high priority
municipal services and infrastructure sub-projects. The Municipal Development Fund (MDF) was placed as a financial
intermediary, where municipal access to finance was limited. Loan portions were provided under an 11 percent
interest rate, which was the prevalent borrowing market rate at the time of appraisal, with a 10- year maturity and one
year grace period. This approach was selected to help develop a market for municipal finance, through the creation of
a culture of sustainable sub-national borrowing, including improved fiscal discipline. At completion, grants constituted
71% of funding, due to a large number of financially weakened credit-worthy municipalities, which in turn was the
result of the economic crisis and the limited availability of funds from market sources.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

* A split rating is used to assess the project's efficacy, as two outcome targets associated with the PDO were revised at 2010
additional financing to reflect the scale-up in project activities. The achievement of the objectives is assessed in relation to the
original and revised targets when applicable.

(a) To improve the efficiency and reliability of selected municipal infrastructure and service .

Under the original and revised outcome targets : Substantial.

Outputs
  In total, 148 investments were carried out, above the targeted 113.
  120 liters of water on average were produced per capita per day as per target, up from 40 liters at appraisal.
  3,084 m3 of sewerage were collected/treated per day, exceeding the target of 700m3.
  247.47 km of roads were rehabilitated, above the target of 192 km.
  An IT-based Budgetary and Financial Management System (BFMS) was developed, as planned. All LSGs moved
    from a paper-based budget to e-budget, which enabled the MoF to aggregate and analyze local budget better. T
    raining was delivered to all the 69 municipalities in 2009.
  Georgia’s Wastewater Management Strategy was prepared and adopted by a Cabinet decree in 2014, along with
    feasibility studies for six cities selected cities and towns. Other studies included Urban and Inter-Village Roads
    Design Guidelines Manual, Tbilisi Bridge Feasibility Study and Design.
  Three cities completed their Strategic Development Plans, as planned.
  Construction of the Mtskheta Wastewater Treatment Plant was cancelled due to delays in preparing and adopting
    the city's Master Plan, as per UNESCO requirements, because the location was part of UNESCO World Heritage
    Site. As reported by the ICR p.15, the Mtskheta Master Plan is financed by the Bank under the on-going Third
    Regional Development Project in Georgia, along with technical assistance of the UNESCO World Heritage
    Center for quality assurance and capacity building. The ICR (p.15, 31) adds that a US$10 million grant was
    leveraged from SIDA to implement two wastewater treatment plants in Telavi and Tskaltubo.

Outcome

     Energy efficiency improved due to introduction of energy efficient production methods, i.e., KWh consumed per
      m3 reduced on average from 0.63 to 0.37, exceeding the original target of 0.56 and the revised target of 0.4.
     Reliability of piped water service increased from 7 to 12 hours per day by project closure, as targeted.
     Vehicle operating costs reduced by 30% due to improved urban roads, exceeding the original target of 20% and
      the revised target of 25%.
     The target of 60% for improvement in quality of water bodies due to reduction in wastewater pollution was not
      achieved due to cancellation of a related sub-project for the construction of the Mtskheta Wastewater Treatment
      Plant.
     The number of project beneficiaries was estimated at 367,153 (of which, 194,000 were females), significantly
      above the targeted 150,000. The ICR does not discuss the reasons for such a significant difference, as the
      indicator and associated target were introduced during additional financing in 2010 and should have reflected the
      increased scope of the activities (AF Project Paper, October 2010).


(b) To assist in restoring infrastructure and services and in improving housing conditions for conflict affected people
of Georgia.
Substantial.

Outputs
  783 houses were constructed in line with the revised target but below the original target of 900. All the
    constructed houses were provided with greywater connections.
  1,483 houses for internally displaced people were improved (target was 1,263 houses). This included improved
    physical conditions of walls and floors, and provision of entrance sheds and air ventilators, and installation of
     hydro/thermal insulation.
    The volume of water supply in IDP settlements increased from 0 to 152 m3, well above the target of 20m3.
    272 water standpipes were improved in IDP settlements, above the target of 60.
    12 IDP settlements were served with solid waste collection systems, as targeted.
    300 pedestrian crossings were constructed, as targeted.


Outcome
  3,600 conflict- affected people are reported to have benefitted from the emergency rehabilitation/construction as
    targeted.


5. Efficiency:

At appraisal, an economic analysis was not carried out as the project was demand-driven and the entire pipeline of
sub-project investments to be financed was not known. An economic framework was defined to guide the economic
appraisal of infrastructure investments carried out as part of their feasibility studies. It outlined the expected scope and
methodology of the analysis by type and size of investments, including the quantifiable benefits to be assessed and
the baseline monitoring indicators to be established (PAD, Annex 9).

At closure, the economic internal rates of return (EIRRs) were calculated for a sample of sub-projects in the following
sectors supported under the project:

    Roads. The ex-post EIRRs for the eight roads sub-projects ranged from 20.5% to 29.4%. All sub-projects had a
     cost benefit ratio of more than 4. The estimated benefits included savings in motor vehicle operating costs, travel
     time and maintenance cost at the price of earlier and post feasibility studies. The EIRRs and NPV of sub-projects
     were assessed over a 15 year period, at the discount rate of 7 % (instead of the 12 % discount rate that was used
     in the feasibility studies). As explained by the ICR p.33, a 7% discount rate was used according to the available
     data for Georgian financial markets. A sensitivity analysis showed that all sub-projects yielded EIRRs above 12 %
     when 20% lower traffic levels were assumed. The ICR (p.35) reports that unit costs of the rehabilitated roads
     compare favorably against international standards, however it does not provide any corresponding data.
    Water and sewerage. The ex-post EIRR for the four water supply and sewerage system rehabilitation
     sub-projects was 13.7%. The estimated benefits included reduction in coping costs from fetching water from
     wells and water tanks, time savings, reduction in health care costs from diarrheal disease, and reduction in
     Disability Adjusted Life Years.
    Tourism Development. The ex-post EIRR was estimated at 14.2% for the Sairme tourism infrastructure
     rehabilitation sub-project, which was selected among other sub-projects for its significance to the development of
     tourism in the country. The estimated benefits included increased employment and the value of increased wages
     received by the “Sairme” hotel staff, and increased sales by local business and its additional income. A risk- sens
     itivity analysis showed that the sub-project still yielded an EIRR above 12% even when 20% lower tourist
     scenario was assumed.

The project closing date was extended by 18 months to complete one sub-project and the three strategies. All the
remaining sub-projects were completed on schedule. The increase in project costs at AF, which doubled from the
appraisal estimates, reflected the scale up of project activities, and does not impact the efficient use of project
resources.

Efficiency is assessed as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is substantial. The project achieved its two objectives to a
substantial extent, both under the original and revised outcome targets. Efficiency is assessed as substantial.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Financial risk. The ICR reports that sufficient funding continues to be allocated for operation and maintenance, and
local revenues are growing. LSGs defaults and arrears to MDF declined from 22% in 2003 to zero by project closing.

Institutional risk. Capacity building of LSGs is continued through Bank support under the follow-up Second Regional
and Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (P147521) approved in July 2014.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

Project had been under preparation before the conflict erupted in August 2008. To expedite the project’s response
to help mitigate the conflict's impact, the Bank’s Operational Policy (OP) 8.0 Rapid Response to Crisis and
Emergencies was triggered. The design was adjusted and added a component to address the IDP housing and
infrastructure rehabilitation emergency in accordance with a Joint World Bank- UN Needs Assessment of the
damage to infrastructure.

The project design was built on Bank's earlier support of a series of projects aimed at improving municipal
services in Georgia, including the first IDA- funded Municipal Development and Decentralization Project I
(1997-2002), which set up the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) as a mechanism to enable local governments
to finance needed infrastructure repairs, and the follow-up MDDP II (2002-2007) that continued its support to local
governments. The project was designed in close cooperation with other donors active in Georgia, who provided
parallel technical assistance, capacity building, and financing of municipal infrastructure investment projects (e.g.,
MCC, ADB, EBRD, USAID, GTZ, KfW, UNHCR).

Risks were adequately assessed and mitigation measures identified. The overall risk of the operation was rated
moderate. The PAD (p.10) rated the risk that continuing conflict might impede project implementation as
significant, but this did not materialize, as the conflict was not protracted. The social and fiduciary arrangements,
and M&E design were adequate.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

Supervision missions were carried out regularly, twice a year. The core team was based in Tbilisi or Armenia and
included relevant expertise. The project benefited from the continuity of the same project team leader, who also
led the MDDP II.

The frequency of progress reporting was generally regular, and adequately addressed key issues and planned
actions (there were some inconsistencies in M&E reporting, see Section 10b below). The first Implementation
Status and Results Report (ISR) from June 2009 noted issues related to housing quality. Visits to construction
sites and interaction with beneficiaries revealed some delays or low quality in sub-projects. A Mid-term review in
March 2010 (carried out 17 months into implementation) was used as an opportunity to highlight and correct these
issues. The Bank proactively addressed issues related to sub-project quality and supervision, resulting in the
adoption of road and infrastructure guidelines by MDF.

Environmental performance was rated fully satisfactory for most of the project life. The mid-term mission in 2010
noted weak compliance with the enforcement of the Environment Management Plan (EMP) in some sub-projects
and agreed with MDF on the need for intensified construction supervision. A unit for handling environmental and
social safeguards was established within MDF. The rating was upgraded to satisfactory in 2011. Supervision of
fiduciary issues was adequate. The Bank’s procurement specialist, based in Georgia, provided assistance and
on-the-job training on a continuous basis.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory
   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government was highly committed to the project. Under the Institutional Development component, all
prepared strategies were based on the Government's priorities. The wastewater management strategy was
discussed at Cabinet meeting and adopted by a formal government decree in order to make its recommendation
mandatory that the strategies be taken into account in the design and construction of all new wastewater treatment
plants. The road design guidelines have been adopted by MDF and the Ministry of Regional Development and
Infrastructure. The Government also provided timely counterpart funding throughout the entire project duration.
The MDF's Supervisory Board was actively engaged throughout the implementation period of the project; it
convened several times, to discuss and approve MDF’s business plans and addressed issues related to project
implementation.


   Government Performance Rating                                  Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The Municipal Development Fund (MDF) was the implementing agency. All the project components were carried
out satisfactorily and on a timely basis. In four months, MDF completed construction of eight IDP settlements
under the project and provided them with basic infrastructure. Due to an organized transparent house allocation
process, there were no complaints from IDPs. When the Bank identified quality issues with some sub-projects,
MDF, along with the Government, took immediate remedial actions. MDF underwent an institutional
reorganization at the end of 2010 to ensure it remained financially sustainable and strategic. A credit management
officer and a risk management officer position were created to strengthen MDF’s credit management responsibility
as a non-bank financial intermediary. A new unit was created to develop stronger partnership with municipalities.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                          Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The project's outcome indicators were appropriately linked with the PDO. Efficiency of selected municipal services
was measured by: (i) the yearly consumption of KWh, expected to decline as a result of energy-efficient production
methods introduced under the project; and (ii) reduction in vehicle operating costs as a result of improved urban
roads. Reliability was measured by the number of hours per day of piped water service. One indicator, namely the
number of people benefitting from completed emergency rehabilitation/construction, was targeted to measure
progress in activities targeted to benefit conflict- affected beneficiaries. The target values related to the intermediate
indicators for water production, sewerage collection, and road rehabilitation, could not be estimated at the appraisal
stage, as the project was designed as a framework operation whose specific sub-projects would depend on actual
demand from LSGs.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   During the AF in 2010, the core indicator was added on the gender disaggregated number of project beneficiaries,
and two outcome targets were revised to reflect the scale-up of the activities. M&E reporting in the ISRs was regular
but not always consistent. In particular, the values for a number of outcome and intermediate indicators were reported
to be better in 2013 than at project closure in 2014. Moreover, intermediary ISRs used aggregate expected targets ,
as reported in feasibility studies and MDF progress reports. Towards the end of the project, an international consulting
firm specialized in M&E was hired under the loan proceeds to carry out a thorough technical audit to measure actual
sub-projects completion results and calculate the aggregate or weighted average values. The ICR p.10 notes that the
differences between the intermediate and final reporting did not distort the project ratings.
 c. M&E Utilization:
   The selected outcome and intermediate indicators were utilized by both the Bank and MDF to monitor progress
towards the project’s objectives.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was an environmental category 'FI'-Financial Intermediary- project, which triggered two safeguards policies –
OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, and OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. Environmental due diligence was to be
ensured through the procedures for the selection and implementation of sub-projects, which were detailed in the
project Operations Manual (OM) prepared by the Borrower and agreed by the Bank.

The ICR p.11 reports that safeguards policy implementation was generally satisfactory, and the project closed with no
negative environmental impacts.

Environmental Assessment : As the project was designed to finance multiple individual investments on a rolling basis,
an Environmental Assessment and Management Framework (EAMF) was prepared and incorporated
into the Operational Manual to guide environmental screening, assessment, management planning, and monitoring
procedures for the individual sub-projects. All sub-projects financed under the project were Category B. The project
triggered OP 8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies, and the EAMF carried relevant provisions for a
simplified environmental review and approval of activities aimed at the provision of infrastructure to IDP settlements
on emergency basis. The EAMF was updated and re-disclosed at the time of the AF. The issues that arose in several
sub-projects resulted in downgrading of Environmental Safeguards compliance from satisfactory to moderately
satisfactory from March 2010 to December, 2011. These were addressed through establishment of an environmental
and social safeguards unit within MDF, and through other operational measures.

Involuntary Resettlement . The OM explicitly spelled out what types of project- related activities constituted involuntary
resettlement for the Bank. MDF was to screen incoming proposals for such implications (PAD, p.20). No resettlement,
land acquisition or physical relocation of beneficiaries took place under the project.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement . As reported by the ICR p. 11, annual post reviews of procurement contracts found that procurement
procedures were overall in adherence with World Bank procedures. When issues were identified, they were brought to
MDF’s attention and specific recommendations were jointly agreed upon and implemented.

Financial management. MDF’s internal controls system was assessed on a regular basis by the Bank and found
reliable and able to provide timely information and reporting on the project. While there were delays in the submission
of semi-annual IFRs, timeliness of submission gradually improved. The quality of financial reporting also improved
through assigning of additional accountants to verify the accuracy of IFRs. Project and entity audit reports were
generally submitted on time and found acceptable by the Bank, as reported by the ICR p.12.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory               Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                   Moderate
                     Outcome:
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Lessons from the ICR, adapted by IEG:

    Providing credits to creditworthy local self-governments with reasonable credit capacity and grants to small
     municipalities with no credit capacity helps enhance the credit culture and ensure that small municipalities are
     also included. Fiscal discipline should be enforced to help municipalities learn how to function in a market
     borrowing environment.

    Investments should take place with a strategic vision in place. The adoption of a wastewater management
     strategy under this project introduced more cost-effective technology options and encouraged donor
     organizations to commit resources and invest in the sector.

    A transparent and fair system for housing allocation for conflict affected people may help avoid complaints.
     Distribution of houses among internally displaced people during a lottery attended by all beneficiaries was a
     critical aspect of this process under the project, which strengthened beneficiaries’ trust in the system, and
     allowed a smooth process, with no complaints related to lack of transparency in housing allocations.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is clear and results-driven. The ICR is informative in addressing the important aspects of the project
implementation experience. It also provides important detail and good account of M&E implementation. Lessons are
evidence- based. The ICR would have benefitted from offering a more meaningful analysis of municipal finance.
There are a number of inconsistencies in the data, for example the output values were not consistent between the ICR
data sheet and the main text, for example indicators 11,13,14 and the data in para 37 p. 16. The ICR's data sheet
should have included ECTF as a co-financier.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
