Report No. 1656b-RU
Appraisal of a
Second Highway Project
Burundi
February 8, 1978                                                                                    COPY
Regional Projects Department                                                         FILE   COPY
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =             Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$0.01111                  =             FBu 1
US$1.00                     =             FBu 90
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =             0.62 miles (m)
I ton (t)  2                              2,204 pounds (lb) 2
1 sq km (km )              =              0.386 sq miles (mi )
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADT      Average Daily Traffic
AfDB     African Development Bank
BADEA    Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique
en Afrique (Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa)
BCT      Bureau Central Technique (Planning and Design
Department)
DIWI     Dr. Ing. Walter Ingenieurberatung (Consultants-
German)
DPC      Direction des Ponts et Chaussees (Roads Department)
dwt      dead weight tonnage
EDF      European Development Fund
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
MTP      Ministere des Travaux Publics de l'Equipement
et du Logement (Ministry of Public Works)
RD       Research and Development (Consultants-Belgium)
RIG      Route d'Interet General (Secondary Road)
RN       Route Nationale (Primary Road)
RP       Route Provinciale (Tertiary Road)
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



BURUNDI        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS            ..................................   i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION ..................   o.............. ........................ 
-           2.\  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .....................................             2
A.   Economic Setting . ............ .   ..................... ..a..  2
B.   The Transport System ..................................          2
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR .......       ........................              3
A.   Road Network ....       ............... ...    ........ .        3
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Transport                     4
C.   Highway Administration ............... . ...... .                5
D. Planning.                                                          5
E.   Financing .....  .............  ..                               6
F.   Engineering ........                 .     ....  ......          7
G.   Construction ...  .  ..........                      ....        7
H1.   Maintenance ..... . ... .  ... ...     .      .      ..  .      9
I. Training .10
4. THE PROJECT .10
A.   Objectives ................  .......... -         ............    10
B.   Description ............ ......    11
C.   Status of Engineering  *.......... ..................    14
D.   Cost Estimates ........ ..... ...................    14
E. Financing                                      ...                16
F. Implementaton                  . . .17
G.   Procurement ........ .........            ...... . .17
H.   Construction Methods                   .       .       ....     18
I.   Disbursements ...... . .... ... . ....... .........             18
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .19
A.   Benefits and Beneficiaries    9..........        .19
B,   Main Road Construction         l      9. .  ........            19
C.   Improvement of Road Network.                                    20
D.   Continuation of Highway Maintenance Project .20
E.   Risk .                                                          21
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    ......... ......    21
This report was prepared by Peter Ludwig (Engineer), I.E. Smith (Econo-
mist) and P. Brereton (Editor).
This document has a restTicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
TABLES
1. Road Network
2. Government's Road Paving Program
3. Comparison of Highway Densities
4. Vehicle Fleet 1968-1976
5.  Revenues from Road Users
6. Annual Highway Expenditures
7. Capital and Recurrent Project Costs
8. Design Standards Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo Road
9. Bridges Proposed for Reconstruction
10. Stabilization of Steep Grades
11. Investment Program
12. Design Standards Low Standard Gravel Roads
13. Maintenance Equipment
14. Calculation of Physical and Price Contingencies
15. Disbursement Schedule
16. Highway Maintenance Program Economic Costs and Benefits
17. Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates
ANNEXES
1.   Project Progress Reporting Requirements
2.   Project Monitoring Indices
CHARTS
1.   Organization of Ministry of Works (World Bank - 17448)
2.   Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
1.   Burundi International Transport Connections (IBRD 11731R)
2.   Burundi Road System (IBRD 12905R)
3.   Burundi Traffic Flow 1976 (IBRD 12906)



BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       Internal transport in Burundi depends almost exclusively on high-
ways. Although the 5,500 km network reaches most parts of the country, its
condition is unsuitable for Burundi's needs, owing mainly to poor construc-
tion standards and inadequate maintenance. The situation is aggravated by
the rugged terrain which raises construction and maintenance costs. The
proposed project, like the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project of March 1974,
aims, by supporting the Government's Highway Maintenance Program, at improving
Burundi's capacity to maintain and develop its highway network and at reducing
the costs of highway transport through selected rehabilitation and upgrading
operations on the most economically important roads.
(ii)      The project comprises:  (i) reconstruction of the main 65 km
Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo road to two-lane bituminous standards; (ii) im-
provement of the classified road network through the replacement of obsolete
bridges, the paving of steeply graded road sections and the upgrading to
gravel or improved earth standards of selected key roads; and (iii) con-
tinuation of technical assistance and procurement of equipment essential to
the ongoing Maintenance Program. Project completion is scheduled for the end
of 1981.
(iii)     It is estimated that the main road reconstruction will yield rates
of return on the various sections ranging between 18% and 12% with an overall
return of 16% for the road as a whole. The earth roads to be upgraded have
been selected from a highway investment program of improvements estimated
to produce first-year rates of return in excess of 15%. The bridges to be
replaced and the steep grades to be stabilized will be selected from short
lists compiled on the basis of traffic volumes; precise rates of return will
be calculated in these instances to permit final selection of those with
economic returns in excess of 12%. The overall estimated rate of return for
the ongoing Maintenance Program for which the project will provide further
support is estimated to be in excess of 20%.
(iv)      The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Works (Ministere
des Travaux Publics de l'Equipement et du Logement - MTP). International
competitive bidding will be adopted for major works and equipment procurement,
but force account and possibly local bidding will be employed for bridge
construction and low standard road improvement. Consultants will be employed
to undertake supervision and, where necessary, detailed engineering.
(v)        The total project cost, net of taxes, will be US$24.0 million
equivalent, of which US$18.4 million equivalent will be foreign exchange.
The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million, the estimated US$6.1 million from
BADEA, which is also expected to participate in the project, and grants from
UNDP, the Federal Republic of Germany amounting to US$0.9 million and US$0.8



- ii -
million respectively will cover about 90% of project costs. In addition
to meeting foreign exchange costs, therefore, the external funds will cover
about 60% of local costs. The remaining US$2.2 million equivalent of local
costs (or US$4.7 million inclusive of taxes) will be met by the Government.
(vi)       The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million on
standard terms to the Republic of Burundi.



BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed Second Highway Project follows up on the ongoing Highway
Maintenance Project of 1974. The objective of the earlier project in conjunc-
tion with a UNDP-financed technical assistance project was to strengthen
Burundi's capacity to administer and maintain its highway network through the
provision of highway equipment, training and workshop facilities and to lay
the basis for future highway development through the preparation by consul-
tants of a highway investment program and selected feasibility studies.
Progress under the ongoing project is satisfactory and the composition of
the proposed Second Highway Project is based on the studies carried out
and the experience gained under the ongoing Project.
1.02      The Highway Maintenance Program which the two projects are support-
ing has its origin in a 1970 engineering credit (Sll-BU) under which consul-
tants (Dr. Ing Walter Ingenieurberatung-DIWI, Germany) carried out a study of
Burundi's highway maintenance needs. Provision was made to assist with the
recommended maintenance program under a subsequent credit negotiated in April
1972. But in view of the deteriorating political situation in Burundi, the
presentation of the project to the Board was deferred. The project was
renegotiated at the end of 1973 and the resulting Highway Maintenance Credit
(467-BU) signed in March 1974.
1.03      Earlier, in 1957, a Bank loan (165-BE) of US$48 million was made to
the Belgian Trust Territory of Rwanda-Urundi for bituminization of the main
Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the port of Bujumbura. These
works were completed in 1959. The proposed project will, thus, be the
Fourth Bank Group lending operation in the transport sector of what is now
the Republic of Burundi.
1.04      The proposed Second Highway Project will provide for the continua-
tion of technical assistance, procurement of maintenance equipment, implemen-
tation of selected road betterment and the upgrading of the main Bujumbura-
Cibitoke-Rugombo road identified in the feasibility studies included under
the Highway Maintenance Project.  It is described in further detail in
Chapter 4.
1.05      The ongoing highway project has encountered problems in (i) the
adequacy and lack of continuity of counterpart staff in project implementa-
tion and (ii) a concentration of highway maintenance resources on urban
roads in Bujumbura to the detriment of inter-urban roads. The proposed
project guards against these difficulties by taking the measures discussed
in paras. 3.23 and 4.10.
1.06      This report is based on the above-mentioned studies and the findings
of an appraisal mission carried out by P. Ludwig (Engineer) and I.E. Smith
(Economist) in February 1977. The report was edited by P. Brereton.



- 2 -
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2
2.01      The Republic of Burundi, a small country of only 27,000 km , is
situated astride the Zaire-Nile divide in the center of Africa. One of
the most densely populated countries in Africa with 3.8 million inhabitants,
it is, at the same time, one of the poorest with a per capita GDP of only
about US$120 equivalent. The major economic activity is agriculture with
95% of the population dispersed throughout the rural areas as small farmers.
Coffee and, to a lesser extent, cotton and tea are the principal sources of
foreign exchange, but the rural population depends mainly on subsistence
crops. The equatorial climate and fertile soils would permit a substantial
expansion of agricultural output, given adequate institutional and infra-
structural support. Exploitation of nickel deposits may alter Burundi's
economy, but the commercial feasibility still remains to be established.
Bujumbura, the capital and commercial center, is the only town of significant
size; situated on Lake Tanganyika, it provides the principal outlet, through
the lake shipping services and the railway through Tanzania, to the country's
trading markets.
B. The Transport System
2.02      Two of the principal factors underlying Burundi's transport prob-
lems are the country's landlocked situation, over 1000 km from the coast,
and the rugged terrain which makes highway construction and maintenance
costly. The 5,500 km road network reaches most parts of the country; never-
theless, as virtually the only internal transport mode, it is inadequate for
Burundi's needs, mainly because of poor construction standards and inadequate
maintenance. The resulting high transport costs and frequent interruptions to
service are obstacles to the expansion of agricultural output. The upgrading
of some key routes with external financing and the recent improvements in
maintenance, in which the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project has played an
important part, have alleviated the problems to some extent, but continuing
maintenance and rehabilitation will remain a high priority. The highway
system is described in more detail in the next section.
2.03      Burundi encounters difficulties on its external transport links
(shown on Map-IBRD 11731R). At present, shipments of imports and exports
through the principal outlet via Tanzania, totalling some 150,000 tons per
year, suffer frequent delays and losses.  Travel time between Dar es Salaam
and Bujumbura averages 60 days, while 15 days would be considered adequate
under normal operating conditions. Capacity is basically not a problem. The
port of Bujumbura can handle 450,000 tons per annum, and both the lake fleet
and the Central Line of East African Railways from Kigoma to Dar es Salaam
have adequate potential for Burundi's foreseeable needs. The problem is,
rather, low productivity principally on the railway and in Kigoma Port arising
from poor management, inadequate investment and insufficient maintenance. The



- 3 -
situation is aggravated by a tendency for Tanzania to concentrate its limited
investment and maintenance funds on the rail branch serving Mwanza on Lake
Victoria rather than Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika.
2.04      Alternative outlets do not compete effectively with the Tanzania
route owing to higher costs and, at present, political difficulties. The
link via Rwanda and Uganda to the former East African Railways and the port
of Mombasa in Kenya is, however, becoming increasingly attractive with the
continuing improvement in national highways between Bujumbura and the rail-
head at Kampala. A third possibility via the lake port of Kalemi in Zaire and
beyond to the ports of Matadi or Lobito cannot be regarded as a satisfactory
alternative at present owing to high costs associated with distance and poor
service. Other alternatives such as that via lake Victoria to Kisumu would
not be feasible without major highway construction outside Burundi.
2.05      The lake transport between Bujumbura and Kigoma is provided by
a private company, ARNOLAC, which operates a fleet of some 20 barges, towed
or self-propelled, with capacities ranging between 100 and 1400 dwt, giving
a total capacity of some 7,000 dwt. The barges- are old and handling methods
cumbersome, but carrying capacity is adequate.
2.06      Air transport plays a small but significant role in Burundi's
external transport. Freight volumes fluctuate from year to year, but a
representative figure would be around 1,000 tons per annum. The principal
airport at Bujumbura is served by regular international flights. There
are, in addition, six small airstrips throughout the country, but internal
passenger and freight traffic is insignificant.
2.07      There is no formal administrative machinery in Burundi for the
coordination and development of the transport sector as a whole. Given
the small size of the country and the predominance of road transport, there
are few internal coordination problems at present. Still, an appropriate
institution should eventually be made responsible for formulating a clear
policy on external links and for maintaining an adequate liaison with the
neighboring territories through which Burundi's access to the sea lies.
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Road Network
3.01      The road network consists of about 5,500 km of roads and tracks.
About 3,000 km have been classified as either primary roads (Routes Nationals
- RN), secondary roads (Routes d'Interet General - RIG) or tertiary roads
(Routes Provinciales - RP) and are under the authority of the Ministry of Pub-
lic Works (Ministere des Travaux Publics - MTP) (see Table 1 and Map 12905R).
The RN radiate from Bujumbura to the borders of neighboring countries; the
RIG link the provincial capitals with one another and the RP link commercial
centers within a province. The remaining 2,500 km of unclassified earth
tracks carry little traffic and are maintained by the local authorities.



-4-
3.02      About 200 km of the National Roads are presently paved.  Funds
for the paving of another 260 km have been secured from the European Devel-
opment Fund (EDF), the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the People's
Republic of China and start of construction is imminent. Government is
actively pursuing financing for the paving of a further 320 km (for details
see Table 2). The danger of over-investment and its implications for re-
current costs is being discussed with the Burundi Government and potential
donors (e.g., Germany). Government agreed that it will prepare and submit
before April 30, 1978 to the Association a road investment program covering at
least five years and exchange views with the Association thereon, giving the
Association the opportunity to comment on any changes in the program's imple-
mentation.
3.03      A comparison with other developing countries (Table 3) shows that
Burundi's highway2network is relatively dense in relation to the surface
covered (210 m/km ), but below average in relation to the population served
(1.4 m/habitant). Although it appears that the length of the network is ade-
quate, its condition is certainly not. The bulk of the network consists of
unengineered earth roads and tracks. The roads are narrow, with widths rang-
ing from 4 to 7 meters; their alignment is often poor, and lack of systematic
regravelling (see para. 3.22) has caused deterioration of the running surface.
Obsolete wooden bridges are frequently carried away by floods, interrupting
traffic for several days. Heavy erosion by rain on steeply graded road sec-
tions impedes traffic during the rainy season, when maintenance crews are
unable to keep abreast of the rapid and continuous deterioration. Apart
from these deficiencies, which the present project will help to rectify
(paras. 4.05-4.07), most of the roads are usable throughout the year because
many of the soils, particularly in the mountainous areas, consist of gravel
and other well-draining materials.
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Transport
3.04      The vehicle fleet increased at an annual rate of 6.5% over the
eight-year period 1968-1976 to a total of 6,840 vehicles (see Table 4).
This trend was, however, biased by a sharp decline in the number of vehicles
in use in 1974 and 1975 reflecting the political situation of the period;
a more reliable long-term growth figure would be about 7%. The structure of
the fleet remained essentially the same throughout the period with a slight
bias towards passenger cars and four-wheel drive vehicles; in 1976 cars and
four-wheel drive vehicles constituted 68%, trucks and vans 30%, and buses 1%.
Trucks tend to be small in size, vehicles with carrying capacities in excess
of 4 tons constituting only 11% of the trucking fleet.  There are therefore at
present no problems with overloaded vehicles causing damage to the road
system. However, further development has to be monitored once the road from
Bujumbura to Mombasa is paved over its whole length, which may induce long-haul
traffic.
3.05      Traffic volumes are light throughout the country.  In 1976 only 11%
of the entire 5,500 km road network was carrying more than 50 vehicles per
day. The traffic is concentrated largely on the principal roads radiating
from Bujumbura (see Map -IBRD 12906).



-5-
3.06      Road transport is subject to neither quantitative restrictions nor
tariff controls. Entry into the industry is unrestricted, but most freight
is conveyed in producers' and merchants' own vehicles. There are very few
independent trucking firms, except in transport of petroleum products where
two companies predominate. The Government provides a limited bus service in
Bujumbura and on the principal bituminized roads serving the city, but the
great majority of passengers are carried by trucks and vans.
C. Highway Administration
3.07      MTP has responsibility for the design, construction and main-
tenance of all classified roads (see Chart 1). The Department of Planning
and Design (Bureau Central Technique - BCT) within the Ministry supervises
feasibility studies and detailed engineering carried out by consultants and
administers all construction contracts; the Department of Roads and Bridges
(Direction des Ponts et Chaussees - DPC) within the Ministry executes minor
construction works and is responsible for all aspects of road maintenance.
3.08      All activities are directed from Ministry headquarters in Bujumbura.
This centralized type of administration is well suited for Burundi in view of
its small size, the shortage of technically-trained personnel and the prepon-
derance of economic activity near the capital. At present, only the Minister,
the Director of BCT, the Director of DPC and the roads' superintendent have a
formal education in engineering. Eleven of the more important positions in
the highway organization are filled by expatriates provided by UNDP, Germany
and France. Government, assisted by the Association, is making efforts to
overcome the shortage of Burundi nationals among higher level staff (see
para. 3.25), but will continue to depend on expatriates for several years.
3.09      The organization of MTP is sound except in one respect:  respon-
sibility for the maintenance of the Bujumbura township roads and for the
national road network should be vested in two separate services (para. 3.23).
Government has agreed to establish by June 30, 1978 a program for a progressive
separation into two services responsible for (i) Bujumbura's township roads,
and (ii) the national road network, each to be provided with a specific amount
of personnel and equipment and with distinctive departmental allocations in
the Government's budget of current expenditures. A first step has already
been taken by Government in this direction, by establishing in the 1978
recurrent budget separate headings for the maintenance of Bujumbura's township
roads and the national road network.
D. Planning
3.10      The Ministry of Planning, in cooperation with MTP, plans invest-
ments in the highway sector. Whereas the first Five-Year Plan (1968-72)
concentrated on improving Burundi's road links with neighboring countries



- 6 -
in order to become more independent of the lake-rail connection to Dar es
Salaam, with its frequent interruptions, the Second Five-Year Plan (1973-77)
emphasizes the need for improving internal road maintenance. Implementa-
tion of the first plan has fallen far behind schedule, and some of the road
construction listed therein 1/ is not yet completed or has not even been
started. Implementation of the Second Plan has made good progress mainly
due to the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project.
3.11      There is no planning unit within the MTP and the objectives of the
two Five-Year Plans concerning the highway sector were given only in general
terms without being founded on detailed economic, technical or financial con-
siderations. In 1975, therefore, MTP with IDA assistance (Credit 467-BU),
hired consultants (Berger/BCEOM-France) to draw up a 10-year road investment
program (1978-87). The consultants' draft final report has been submitted
recently and is being reviewed by Government and the Association. Preliminary
zonclusions are that once Government has completed its road paving program
(Table 2), only about 14 km should receive major upgrading within the next 10
years and about 600 km should be upgraded from earth track to low-standard
gravel and improved earth roads. The present project will help finance the
road improvement (see para. 4.07).  However, its successful implementation
will require the establishment of a planning or coordination post to follow
up on the consultants' recommendations, and to coordinate construction work
carried out by contractor or force account units. In case of a shift in
transport patterns, reflecting a change in Government's development policy,
it would also be the responsibility of this post to adapt, in coordination
with all Ministries involved, the proposed road investment program. Govern-
ment has recently vested responsiblity for this function in the position of
the Director General of MTP and has agreed to maintain this arrangement and
to employ a competent and experienced person for the position of Director
General.
E. Financing
3.12      Road users contribute to Government revenues through import duties
and taxes on vehicles, spare parts and fuel, and through registration and
licensing fees (Table 5). Total revenues collected were about US$2.5 million
in 1976, which exceeded Government's annual highway expendi'tures' though remain-
ing below total expenditures on roads including foreign-aided development
projects. While most of these funds are fed into the Government's general
budget, the surtax on gasoline and diesel oil is allocated directly to the
National Road Fund, established in 1969 to help finance capital expenditures
in the highway sector. The surtax was raised from FBu 1 (UJs1. 11) per liter
to FBu 3 (USd3.3) per liter in 1973.  Revenues from the surtax amounted
1/   RN 6:  Ngozi-Muyinga-Kobero-Tanzanian Border
RN 1: Bujumbura-Kayanza-Rwandese Border
RN 3: Bujumbura-Mutambara-Nyanza Lac
RN 5: Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rwandese Border



-7-
to about US$600,000 in 1976. Total revenues from road users are expected to
be sufficient to cover all recurrent highway expenditures in the future.
3.13      Recurrent expenditures for road maintenance are financed from Gov-
ernment's recurrent budget (budget ordinaire). Budget provisions for road
maintenance have been consistently below requirements (see Table 6) and
Government has used the funds provided for the expansion of highway mainte-
nance capacity under Credit 467-BU to finance day-to-day maintenance expendi-
tures, such as fuel, construction materials and spare parts, instead of
building up a sufficient stock of these items which would permit continuous
maintenance operations even in times of supply difficulties. Since Government
revenues from road users are adequate to cover all recurrent expenditures, and
since no increase of maintenance capacity is now proposed (para. 4.11) no
provision has been made to finance fuel, materials and spare parts for road
maintenance under the proposed credit. Agreement has been reached with Gov-
ernment on the amount of 1978 maintenance allocation (US$2.5 million equiva-
lent) and on the principle that budget provisions for future years will not
be lower than the 1978 allocation and will be discussed annually with the
Association, taking into consideration price variations and changes in
traffic patterns and the highway network. Estimated recurrent costs for
future years are given in Table 7.
3.14      Road construction is financed from the development budget (budget
extraordinaire) which draws its resources mainly from taxes on coffee export
and from foreign aid. Government's program for the construction of paved
roads together with the source of financing is listed in Table 2. Total
expenditures over the next eight years are estimated at US$100 million with
a foreign aid component of US$80 million. This program was discussed with
Government and the agreements set out in para. 3.02 were reached.
F. Engineering
3.15      BCT is responsible for the design of highway construction
and for controlling work carried out by contractors. The department's staff,
headed by a Burundi engineer, consists of several expatriates pro-
vided through bilateral and EDF assistance and Burundi technicians. Its
design capacity is limited to small-scale projects and is unlikely to in-
crease significantly until the shortage of skilled technicians is overcome
(see para. 3.25). The training program included in the Road Maintenance
Project (Credit 467-BU) is helping to alleviate this problem. BCT will
continue in the foreseeable future to depend upon the assistance of foreign
consultants to carry out feasibility studies and detailed engineering.
G. Construction
3.16      Major contracts are of the unit-price type, and contract conditions
conform to international standards. They include provisions covering bid



-8-
bonds, performance guarantees, price escalation, advance payments, retention
money, arbitration and first-year road maintenance by contractor.
3.17      There is no major domestic road construction industry because of a
lack of trained professionals, subprofessionals and managers and because of
the rather limited market, in the long run, for major construction works.
One European firm (AMSAR) has established affiliates in Zaire, Rwanda and
Burundi; the Burundi Government holds 40% of the shares of the Burundi af-
filiate's capital. Road construction contracts are let after international
competitive bidding, but, due to the relatively small jobs tendered so far and
the lower overheads and mobilization costs that AMSAR incurs by being located
in Burundi, competition is rather weak and AMSAR regularly receives the
contract award. However, in view of the upcoming major road contracts, more
foreign contractors might be interested in installing themselves temporarily
in Burundi, and competition may grow.
3.18      Minor works for drainage and structures are either carried out by
the Roads Department's force account units or subcontracted to the few small-
scale domestic contractors which normally do not employ more than twenty
laborers. A Bank mission visited Burundi in late 1977 to assess the develop-
ment potential and needs of the domestic contracting industry. Government
expressed interest in the mission, and this matter will be further pursued by
the Bank.
3.19      A study carried out in 1973 by the consultants DIWI concluded that
in a major road project, due to the abundance of labor and low wage rates,
labor could, for some operations, be substituted for equipment. But given
equal quality, financial costs would be higher for the more labor-intensive
construction, although the economic costs of the project reflecting shadow
prices would be lower. Government has so far not specifically encouraged
contractors to execute major road construction in Burundi by labor-intensive
methods, and in view of the higher financial cost and the logistical and
administrative problems arising from the organization of a large labor force,
contractors are probably not willing to abandon the established equipment-
intensive methods without appropriate incentives. Furthermore, a report
prepared in 1974 by ILO concludes that the use of labor-intensive methods for
major road construction projects is rather limited in Burundi and does not
propose a pilot program for this purpose. However, Government's attitude is
very open to this question, which is best reflected in the more than 100%
increase of the labor force for manual road maintenance between 1975 and 1977
in connection with the ongoing road maintenance project. The consultants
engaged to prepare the specifications for the road improvement program (para.
4.09) will further help to implement labor-intensive methods, by determining
the appropriate mix of labor and equipment and by ensuring that the design
and the specifications are not biased towards equipment-intensive methods.
3.20      Due to BCT's limited capacity, expatriate consulting firms super-
vise major road construction and will supervise construction of the proposed
project road (para 4.08). A further bottleneck, limiting BCT's capacity
in construction supervision, is the lack of an adequate soils and materials
laboratory. The project therefore provides financing to improve the existing
laboratory (para. 4.12).



-9-
H. Maintenance
3.21      DPC is responsible for the maintenance of the classified road net-
work and the Bujumbura township roads.  Under the current Highway Maintenance            XO
Project, technical assistance is provided to reorganize and strengthen the DPC    'IV
road maintenance organization.  The consultants, Research and Development
(RD-Belgium), financed by UNDP and engaged under the ongoing project with the
Bank as Executing Agency, have so far reorganized manual road maintenance by
setting up 10-man crews, each responsible for a road length of 6 to 10 km,
depending upon the terrain, the soil conditions and the traffic. There are
about 5 road lengths to a section (canton) which is headed by a section
foreman. Five to eight sections constitute a district (chantier), headed by a
district foreman who is supervised by a road superintendent with headquarters
in Bujumbura. Separate crews have been set up for the maintenance of struc-
tures. This organization of manual road maintenance, together with a strict
control of the daily tasks assigned to the maintenance crews, has improved the
quality of maintenance substantially and will remain the backbone of road
maintenance in Burundi.
3.22      Procurement of maintenance equipment under the ongoing project has,
until recently, been delayed by a tendering issue; consequently, mechanized
road maintenance has so far been limited to the use of about 4 pieces of
equipment and 3 trucks on the entire classified road network of 3,000 km.
The lack of periodic regravelling, however, which is best carried out by
partly mechanized units in view of long hauling distances between road and
quarry, has led to a rapid deterioration of some of the roads. With the
recent settlement of the procurement dispute, Government is actively estab-
lishing these mechanized units. Still, most of the equipment presently
operating in the DPC, will have reached the end of its economic life by 1979
and should be replaced at that time to assure an adequate level of mechanized
road maintenance. The proposed project will provide financing for this
purpose (para. 4.11).
3.23      Road maintenance is more mechanized within Bujumbura.  According
to broad estimates, about 65% of the equipment available at DPC is presently
used to maintain the township roads, and maintenance expenditures for these
roads amount to about 60% of the entire road maintenance budget. To prevent
the favoring of Bujumbura's roads to the detriment of the national roads,
which has occurred during the ongoing project period, agreement has been
reached on measures to progressively separate equipment, personnel, account-
ing and budget matters into two services.
3.24      Highway maintenance equipment is maintained by DPC's central
mechanical workshop, supported by German-financed technical assistance to
improve workshop efficiency and to train mechanics and drivers. The German
Government has recently reviewed the progress made under the technical assist-
ance program and has agreed to its extension for about two more years beyond
its originally scheduled end in late 1977.



- 10 -
I. Training
3.25      The current road maintenance project (Credit 467-BU) assists
uovernment in training road overseers, road foremen, equipment operators
and road superintendents. In addition, German bilateral aid provides
training for mechanics and truck drivers. A study to determine training
needs has been carried out under the project by World ORT Union (Switzerland),
a consulting firm specialized in training, and its recommendations are now
being implemented. The consultants, Research and Development, who assist
Government in improving road maintenance operations, give practical on-the-job
training to overseers, foremen and superintendents. The training of mechanics
and truck drivers through the German technical assistance has been going on
since 1968 and is showing good but slow results. Under the current Highway
Maintenance Project Government has recruited through World ORT Union for
a period of two years one instructor for the theoretical training of overseers
and foremen, one instructor for the training of equipment operators and two
teachers for the Ministry's technical school (Ecole des Travaux Publics) which
turns out 4 to 6 technicians per year at the superintendent level among
technicians of other disciplines. Once in full operation, this training
program should provide adequately trained personnel and eventually Burundi
instructors who will carry on the training program. Therefore, with the
exception of training of technicians for the Ministry's soils laboratory and
the continuation of training in the maintenance field, no training component
is included in the proposed project.
3.26      Qualified graduates from the Ministry's technical school are sent
abroad under bilaterally-financed fellowships to receive further technical
education ranging from on-the-job experience to engineering studies in uni-
versities. Those who returned were not bound by contract to serve in the Admin-
istration and were, therefore, frequently absorbed by the private sector, i.e.
AMSAR. To mitigate the problem which makes Government dependent on expatriates,
Government issued a decree in August 1977 by which students who have completed
studies at Government expense have to serve in the administration for a minimum
of ten years.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Govern-
ment in reconstructing an economically important road and to improve Burundi's
classified road network by betterment of selected road sections and continua-
tion of the road maintenance program, which began in 1974 under the current
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 467-BU).



- 11 -
B. Description
4.02      The project consists of:
(i) construction of the Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo
road (65 km) to two-lane bituminous standards;
(ii) improvement of the classified road network through:
(a) replacement of selected obsolete wooden bridges;
(b) stabilization of selected steep road sections; and
(c) implementation of the road investment program pro-
posed in the Berger/BCEOM study;
(iii) consultant services to:
(a)  supervise construction of (i);
(b)  prepare detailed engineering studies and supervise
construction of (ii); and
(c)  continue the ongoing technical assistance
to improve the Borrower's road maintenance
operations;
(iv) procurement of road maintenance equipment to replace
existing equipment near the end of its economic life
and to provide adequate capacity for mechanized road
maintenance; and
(v) improvement of the MTP's soils and materials laboratory
by:
(a)  providing technical assistance to train local
laboratory personnel;
(b)  procuring laboratory equipment and vehicles; and
(c)  reconstructing the laboratory building.
(i) Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo Road Construction
4.03      The project road is situated within the Ruzizi Valley, which, due
to its fertile soil, supports extensive agricultural activity, generating an
Average Daily Traffic (ADT) of between 300 and 80 vehicles depending on the
road section. The alignment of the existing road is generally satisfactory.
However, its surface condition is poor. The absence of suitable gravel in the



- 12 -
vicinity of the road makes proper maintenance difficult. The sunken profile,
frequent flooding of the valley and the- impossibility of adequate drainage
without major earthworks and replacement of structures make the road i:-
sable after heavy rains, in particular, on its first 25 km. Under the proj-
ect the road will be reconstructed to two-lane bituminous paved standards,
and several alignment improvements will shorten the road from 68 to 65 km.
4.04      The proposed design standards for the road improvement (Table 8)
are consistent with the standards used for other paved roads in Burundi and
are appropriate for forecast traffic. They are based on a design speed of
80 km/h and a maximum gradient of 7%. The pavement will be composed of a
natural gravel subbase and a cement stabilized base course with a double
bituminous surface treatment on a 5.50 m width and a 1.50 m shoulder on each
side.
(ii) Improvement of Classified Road Network
4.05      Bridge Replacement:  Government has prepared a list of about 40
defective wooden bridges with spans exceeding 4 m to be replaced by concrete
structures to avoid damage to vehicles and interruption of traffic after
complete disintegration of the wooden bridges. The 21 bridges tentatively
selected by the appraisal mission from Government's list are those with an ADT
of 20 or more vehicles (Table 9). Final selection of the bridges will be
subject to a more detailed analysis to be carried out by the consultants
engaged for the engineering and supervision of the road network improvements
(para. 4.09). Design standards correspond to those given for the main road
construction (Table 8).
4.06      Stabilization of Steep Grades:  Government has prepared a similar
list for steeply graded sections of the national road network, where frequent
erosion of the gravel surface makes maintenance costly. Stabilization of
these road sections by applying a single bituminous surface treatment on
a natural gravel, stabilized soil or crushed stone base course would substan-
tially reduce vehicle operating and maintenance costs. The road sections
tentatively selected to be stabilized, listed in Table 10, have grades of 12%
or more and 1976 ADT in excess of 20 vehicles. Again, final selection of the
sections to be stabilized will be made on the basis of an analysis to be
carried out by the consultants referred to in para. 4.09.
4.07      Investment Program:  A study, financed under the current IDA Credit
and carried out by the consultants Berger/BCEOM, concluded that, apart from
its proposed investments in paved roads, Government should, over the next
ten years, concentrate on the improvement of about 600 km of earth tracks to
low-standard gravel and improved earth roads.  The roads included in the
project are those scheduled for improvement within the first four years of the
program, yielding a first-year rate of return above 15% (see Table 11). To
upgrade the earth tracks, two types of road improvement are proposed: the
low standard gravel road (57 km) and the improved earth road (370 km).  Design
standards for the low standard gravel road shown in Table 12 are adequate to
accommodate forecast traffic. Betterment works for the improved earth road
are limited to the improvement of drainage facilities and the road surface,
and do not involve any major earthworks.



- 13 -
(iii) Consultant Services
4.08      Supervision of Main Road Construction:  Since BCT lacks the super-
visory capacity, consultants will be engaged under terms and conditions ac-
ceptable to the Association to supervise the construction of the Bujumbura-
Cibitoke-Rugombo Road.
4.09      Engineering and Superviion of Road Network Improvements:  The
replacement of bridges and the stabilization and improvement of road sections
will need more detailed studies. Consultants will be engaged under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association to determine the final selection
of the improvements, carry out basic and, if necessary, detailed design
and to supervise subsequent execution of the betterment works. They will
also analyze the appropriate technology for the execution of these works.
4.10      Technical Assistance:  UNDP funds allocated for the continuation
of the ongoing technical assistance program for road maintenance are insuffi-
cient. Supplemental funds, to permit the successful completion of the program
by the end of 1980, would be provided under the project. Furthermore, the
Federal Republic of Germany has agreed to continue its technical assistance to
the mechanical workshop in Bujumbura for the duration of the program. The
program's main objectives are the strengthening of MTP's road maintenance
capacity by training counterparts in all levels of maintenance activities
until maintenance operations have become efficient and independent of expa-
triate assistance. Government has agreed to appoint adequate local counterpart
staff to the consultants, lack of which has impeded the effectiveness of
training during the ongoing project.
(iv) Maintenance Equipment
4.11      Government has submitted for procurement a reasonable list of road
maintenance equipment (Table 13). Government's primary intention in procuring
this equipment is not to increase the capacity of mechanized road mainte-
nance, but by replacement to maintain this capacity at the adequate level
determined during the appraisal of the Highway Maintenance Project.
(v) Soils and Materials Laborator?
4.12      MTP's soils and materials laboratory is not of an adequate
standard to permit satisfactory soil and material tests, and the Ministry
has to rely on contractors' laboratories to control the quality of road or
building construction. The Burundi technicians presently operating the lab-
oratory lack experience, the appropriate equipment and adequate premises
to perform most of the basic tests required for quality control. The project,
therefore, provides financing for about 2 man-years of technical assistance
for the training of Burundi staff; the procurement of laboratory equipment and
3 vehicles enabling the laboratory personnel to visit construction sites and
to collect test samples; and, finally, the reconstruction of the obsolete
laboratory building, the present location of which obstructs urban develop-
ment plans. It has therefore been decided that, instead of rehabilitating
the building, it will be reconstructed at a more appropriate location.



- 14 -
C. Status of Engineering
4.13              Detailed engineering for road construction from Bujumbura to the
Rwandese Border was prepared by the consultants DIWI and financed by the
Government from local funds. The corresponding tender documents were also
prepared by DIWI and adjusted by Government to take into account that the road
is now only constructed as far as Rugombo. Detailed engineering and tender
documents are satisfactory.
D. Cost Estimates
4.14              Total project costs are estimated at US$26.5 million (US$24.0 mil-
lion net of taxes) with a foreign exchange component of US$18.4 million or
70%. Detailed costs are as follows:
Local    Foreign       Tctal       Local    Foreitn    Total            Foreign
--PBu million --------             ------US$ thousand-------               2
A.   ain Road Construction
(i)  Bujumbura-Kihanga (14 km)                                     73           137       210         817        1,517      2,334           65
(ii)   Kihanga-Cibitske (41 km)                                    229           426        655      2,547        4,731       7,278          65
(iii)  Cibitoke-Rugorbo  (10 kn)                                     57           106        163         632        1,174      1,806          65
Subtotal A                                        359           669      1.028       3.996        7,422    11,418
B. Improvement of Road Network
(i)  Replacement of selected obsolete
wooden bridges                                               26            38         64         284          426        710          60
(it)  Stabilifatton  of selected road
sections with steep grades                                   31            59         90         350          650    1l000            65
(iii)   Implementation of investment
program for secondary roads                                  70           130        200         778        1.444      2.222          65
Subtotal B                                        127            227       354       1,412        2,520      3,932
C. Consulting Services
(i)  Supervision of A                                              12            48         60         133          52Z        665          80
(ii)   Study and supervision of B                                    9            34         43          94         '-782       472          80
(iii)  Continuation of technical assistance                          45           182        227         505        2.021      2.526          80
Subtotal C                                         66            264       330         732        2.931      3.663
D.  Maintenance Equipment                                                    14           121       135          150       1.350      1.500           90
E. Improvement of MTP Laboratory
(i)  Technical assistance                                           2             7          9          20           80        100          80
(ii)  Equipment and vehicles                                         1             5          6           7           60         67          90
(iii)  Reconstruction of building                                      3             6         9          35           65        100          65
Subtotal E                                           6            18         24          62          205        267
TOTAL A-E                                         572            69                  6352        1 6428    203780
P. Contingencies
(i)  Physical:-  102 on A-E                                        57           130        187         635        1.443      2.078
(1i)  Price:  (a) 152 on A                                          60           110        170         659        1.225      1,884
(b) 2a7 on B                                       27             51         78        300           565       865
(c) 171 on C                                       12             49        61         137           548       685
(d) 122 on D-E                                       2            19        21          28           205       _23
Subtotal F                                        158            359        517      1,759        3,986      5,745
TOTAL INCLUDING TAXES                              730        1.658      2.388       8.111       18,414    26,525            70
TOTAL NET OF TAXES                                 499         1,658     2.157       5.556       18,414    23,970            77



- 15 -
4.15      The base costs are estimated as of January 1978 and have been
derived as follows:
(i) Main Road Construction
The cost of construction of the Bujumbura-Rugombo
Road has been estimated by the consultants Berger/
BCEOM on the basis of final design quantities and
a survey of 1974 unit prices for construction in
Burundi. These estimates have been updated by the
appraisal mission to reflect price increases and the
devaluation of the Burundi Franc in May 1976.
(ii) Improvement of Road Network
Costs for bridges are estimated by the consultants
RD on the basis of updated unit-prices and average
quantities per linear meter of bridge and are
reasonable (see Table 9).
The costs of stabilization of steep grades are like-
wise based on updated unit-prices and an estimate
made by RD of the area of road surface to be stabil-
ized (see Table 10).
Costs for the investment program were estimated
adequately by the consultants Berger/BCEOM on a per
km basis and average US$23,000 per km for the low
standard gravel road and US$2,500 for the improved
earth road (see Table 11).
(iii) Consultant Services
Supervision of main road construction is estimated
by the appraisal mission at 5.8% of construction
cost.
Engineering and supervision of the road network
improvements are estimated by the appraisal mission
at 12% of total costs of improvements which would
correspond to about 65 man-months at US$7,300 per
man-month, judged adequate to cover the costs of the
consultants' double function.
Costs of technical assistance reflect the average
yearly costs of the consultant team and the German
technical assistance team presently working in Burundi.
Some ten positions are filled by expatriates totalling
about 360 man-months over the project period, at an
average rate of US$7,000 per man-month.



- 16 -
(iv)  Maintenance Equipment
Costs are based on updated recent supplier quotations
and on updated bid prices received under the current
maintenance project.
(v)  Laboratory Improvement
This includes US$100,000 for technical assistance esti-
mated on the basis of 20 man-months, at US$5,000 per
month; US$70,000 for laboratory equipment and vehicles
estimated on the basis of supplier quotations; and
US$100,000 for the reconstruction of the laboratory
building.
(vi)  Contingencies
Details for the calculation of contingencies are given
in Table 14.
E.  Financing
4.16      The project will be financed by an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million,
an anticipated loan from BADEA of US$6.1 million, a grant from the Federal
Republic of Germany amounting to US$0.80 million and a UNDP grant of US$0.9
million. These would cover 100% of the project's foreign costs and about
60% of the project's local cost net of taxes. The remaining 40% of local
cost or US$2.2 million (US$4.7 million inclusive of taxes) will be covered
by Government funds. In addition Government will have to meet the recurrent
cost of road maintenance amounting to US$11.9 million (FBu 1,070 million) for
the four-year period of project-implementation (see Table 7). The financing
plan for the capital cost, net of taxes, would be:
Cov.r~ent      Carr.ny         1lDP         BADEA          IDA       TWAL
S o  S.   o f      s                       off %.f   Sof  xof  S of  S of
,.tsl    bori..  Tot-l    Frseign  Total   foreign  Total   Yoreilg  Total    Foraiu
mouot    Cost    Cost  oat   coat    Cost  ount    Cost    Cont   lout   Cost  Cost   AMont   Cost  Coat
------------- --~~-~~~~~~~~ -----------------------------  ds ullo   -----_____________________________________________________,_________
ain road
ostretio.  0.70  5    -    -    -                     t  5.81    45.0  u  6.39    50.0  52  12.90
I.proveynat of
road Met"  0.92  20          -    -    -   -    -             -   3.68  80   100  4.60
Coosnlt.,t
asroic.   0.36  8       0.75  17  20   0.90  21  21  0.29  7.0  7  2 00    47  52  4.30
0q.idPent  0.18  10  -   -    -   -     -   -    -       -     -   1.67    90  100  1.85
laboratory  0.06  20     _     -     _     _   _    _               0.26    *0  100  0.52
LUz           0.75           o10 1s4o.00                               23.97



- 17 -
The exact amount and the conditions of the financing to be provided by BADEA
are not yet known, but it is likely that the BADEA money will only be used
for the financing of the main road construction and its supervision by consult-
ants. The effectiveness of the BADEA loan is made a condition of disbursement
for construction and supervision of main road construction. However if the
Burundi Government should fail to obtain BADEA funds, IDA should be prepared
to finance the first 45 km of the road corresponding to the availability of
IDA financing.
F. Implementation
4.17      Responsibility; MTP will be responsible for the implementation
of all project components. Within the Ministry, the Department of Planning
and Design (BCT) will have the responsibility for all construction work
carried out by contractor and the improvement of the soils and materials
laboratory, and the Roads Department (DPC) for the work carried out by force
account and the procurement of maintenance equipment. Both departments will
be assisted by consultants (paras. 4.08-4.10) during the execution of the
project.
4.18      Scheduling:  Main road construction and related supervision will
start in the third quarter of 1978 and will take about 30 months with an
estimated 25% of the works to be carried out in 1978, 45% in 1979 and 30%
in 1980. Improvement of the road network will be spread over a period of
3-1/2 years, starting in mid-1978. Procurement of maintenance and laboratory
equipment will take about two years, with the bulk of the equipment arriving
in 1979. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1981. An
implementation schedule, which was agreed with Government, is shown in Chart
2. Reporting requirements including the preparation of a project completion
report and indices for measuring implementation progress (Annexes I and II)
have also been agreed.
G. Procurement
4.19      Main Road Construction:  The contract for the construction of
the main road will be subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
according to Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. In view of Burundi's ongoing
construction program, competition should be keen. Prequalification of con-
tractors is presently being carried out by the Burundi Government. Should
the list of prequalified contractors be acceptable to both IDA and BADEA,
construction could be carried out under one contract only, and joint fi-
nancing would be possible. Otherwise two separate contracts and parallel
financing for distinct road sections might be necessary.



- 18 -
4.20      Improvement of Road Network:
(i)  Construction of the 21 bridges and culverts will be carried
out under force account by DPC, which has proved its capa-
bility for this type of construction under the current
project. However, to alleviate staff constraints and to
permit a shorter construction period, DPC will have the
authority to subcontract some of the bridge work locally
to Burundi contractors. Betterment of 370 km of tracks
to improved earth roads (total cost US$ 0.9 million) will
likewise be carried out under force account. This opera-
tion would also be executed by DPC departmental forces
which have adequate capability for this type of work; and
(ii) Stabilization of steep grades and upgrading of 57 km of
earth tracks to low standard gravel roads will be let to
contractors after ICB on the basis of estimated quantities.
Standard designs and, where necessary, detailed engineering
would be carried out as construction proceeds.
4.21      Equipment:  All equipment financed under the project can be grouped
into major lots and will therefore be procured by ICB in accordance with
Bank/IDA procurement guidelines.
H. Construction Methods
4.22      Contractors are likely to use more equipment intensive methods for
the construction of the road, in view of the conclusions of the ILO study
referred to in para. 3.19 which specifically excluded the Bujumbura-Cibitoke
road as a worthwhile candidate for labor-intensive construction since most of
the available labor in the Ruzizi valley is already employed under existing
agricultural schemes. The specifications for the stabilization of steep
grades and the low standard road construction being situated in areas with
higher unemployment will, however, encourage the use of labor-intensive
methods. DPC force account will, when utilized under the project, feature
its customary high proportion of labor.
I. Disbursements
4.23      Disbursements will be on the basis of 45% of main road construction
costs (including taxes) pending final financing arrangements between Burundi
and BADEA. Disbursements for road improvement works will be 80% of total
costs, and those for consulting services and equipment 100% of foreign costs
and 65% and 80% of local costs, respectively. A disbursement schedule is
shown in Table 15.



- 19 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A- Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The combined effect of the implementation of the above project
components would be to lower internal road transport costs and ensure all-
season access between agricultural areas and markets, particularly Bujumbura,
the main outlet for Burundi's exports. The principal beneficiaries would,
therefore, be the rural farming population, The weighted average economic
return of all project components would, even on conservative assumptions,
exceed 17%.
B. Main Road Construction
5.02      The Map of 1976 Burundi Traffic Flows (IBRD 12906) indicates that
the Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo road supports the densest traffic of the
Burundi unpaved road system. Present ADT varies between 300 and 80 vehicles
depending on the road section. The Burundi Government therefore attaches
highest priority to the reconstruction of this road to paved standards. The
Berger/BCEOM feasibility study which was financed under the ongoing Highway
Maintenance Project and which has been reviewed by the appraisal mission
demonstrates that the upgrading of the 65 km Bujumbura-Kihanga-Cibitoke-
Rugombo road to bitumen standards would yield satisfactory economic returns
of 18%, 16% and 12%, respectively. The return for the road as a whole would
be 16%. The consultants have assumed an average annual 5.5% growth of normal
traffic for all vehicles over the project's twenty year lifetime; a 25% in-
crease of light vehicle traffic in the road's opening year (1980) represent-
ing induced traffic; and a 1% annual growth of heavy vehicle traffic, also
representing induced traffic. These assumptions are reasonable. The return
drops to 15% if induced traffic is not taken into account, to 13% if con-
struction costs are increased by 20% and to 10.5% if vehicle operating cost
savings are reduced by 30%.
5.03      The Bujumbura-Kihanga and Kihanga-Cibitoke sections would be clearly
justified on the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs of normal and
induced traffic serving the fertile agricultural areas of the Ruzizi Valley.
The upgrading of the Cibitoke-Rugombo section, although yielding an overall
12% rate of return, would not show a satisfactory first year rate of return
until 1984. However, since the construction cost involved is small and econ-
omies will be achieved by concurrent construction with the other sections,
construction of the entire road has been scheduled to start in late 1978,
ending in 1980.



20 -
C. Improvement of Road Network
(i)   Replacement of Wooden Bridges
5.04      Many of the dilapidated wooden bridges lie on routes with signifi-
cant traffic flows. Early replacement by permanent structures would permit
savings in maintenance and renewal costs and would eliminate the customary
traffic dislocation following frequent bridge failures. Replacement by con-
crete bridges will, in any case, probably be unavoidable in the long run with
the progressive exhaustion of the country's timber resources. Traffic flow
estimates are available for most of the individual bridge sites, and the
economic feasibility of each replacement will be evaluated by the consultants
carrying out the technical studies (see paragraph 4.09). Bridges located on
routes carrying more than an estimated 20 vehicles per day in 1976 are listed
in Table 9. Those finally selected will yield economic returns in excess of
12%.
(ii)   Stabilization of Road Gradients
5.05      The sLrfacing of the more steeply graded road sections would, by
preventing excessive erosion and wear, reduce road maintenance costs and
seasoral traffic delays. Again, the economic justification of the individ-
ual improvements would be assessed on the basis of available traffic esti-
mates by the specialists engaged to determine the appropriate means of sta-
bilization and to carry out the necessary engineering. Sections proposed
for stabilization with grades of 12% or more and 1976 ADT flows in excess of
20 vehicles are listed in Table 10. The threshold for their final selection
will be an economic return of more than 12%.
(iii)  11.i.gYay Investment Program
5.06      The highway investment program formulated by the consultants under
the Highway Maintenance Project includes several secondary roads, the improve-
ment of which to gravel or improved earth standards in 1978 would yield very
high economic returns through potential vehicle operating cost savings to
ncrmal and induced traffic.  This recommended first phase of the program is
shown in Table 11. Improvements equivalent to some 430 km of earth and
gravel roads, with economic returns exceeding 15%, are proposed for financing
under the project.
D.  Continuation of Highway Maintenance Project
5.07      The proposed financing of technical assistance and highway and
laboratory equipment would be, essentially, a continuation of the Highway
Maintenance Program initiated at the time of the Highway Maintenance Project
in 1974. The evaluation of the Program contained in the Appraisal Report for
the project has been updated on the basis of revised costs, traffic forecasts



- 21 -
and actual expenditures, indicating an economic return on the program as a
whole in excess of 20% (see Table 16). Most of the requisite capital equipment
has been procured under the ongoing project and the program is now under way.
Consequently, the incremental return on the renewal of technical assistance
and additional equipment, which are essential constituents of the program,
would be of a high order substantially in excess of the original 20% for
the program as a whole.
E. Risk
5.08      The only major risk would be the failure of the Government to
provide adequate funds for the recurrent maintenance of the roads constructed
or rehabilitated under the project. This would lead to a rapid deterioration
of these roads, diminishing savings in transport cost and eventually nullifying
the economic return on the investment. The continuing dialogue with Government
on the adequate level of budget provisions for road maintenance (see para.
3.13) should help to minimize this risk.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement has been reached with Government on the following:
(i) the submission of a road investment program to be re-
viewed by IDA (para. 3.02);
(ii) the submission and adoption of a program for the pro-
gressive creation of two separate services to maintain
Bujumbura's township roads and the national road network
respectively (para. 3.09);
(iii) the maintenance of a position within MTP to coordinate
the implementation of the road investment program (para.
3.11);
(iv) adequate 1978 budget provisions for road maintenance
and annual consultations between Government and IDA
on budget allocations for future years (para. 3.13);
(v) the terms and conditions of consultants' employment
(paras. 4.08 and 4.09);
(vi) the continuity and adequacy of counterpart staff (para.
4.10); and



- 22 -
(vii)  the implementation schedule, reporting requirements,
including the preparation of a project completion report,
and indices for measuring implementation progress (para.
4.18).
6.02      The effectiveness of the BADEA loan is a condition of disbursement
for the main road construction and its supervision.
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$14.0
million on standard terms to the Republic of Burundi.
February 8, 1978



TABLE 1
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Network
A. According to Administrative Classification
Approximate Length
(km)
1971        1977
Primary Roads (Routes Nationales)                              570          545
Secondary Roads (Routes d'Interet General)                   1,200        1,165
Tertiary Roads (Routes Provinciales)                         1,230        1,274
Total Classified Network              3,000        2,984
Unclassified Roads                    2,500        2,516
TOTAL             5,500       5,500
B. According to Surface Type
Paved                                                           70          200
Gravel                                                         380          350
Earth                                                        2,550        2,450
Track                                                        2,500        2,500
TOTAL            5,500        5,500
Source: Appraisal Report No. PTR-109a and Berger-BCEOM Report
"Road Investment Program 1978-1987" February 1977
February 1978



TABLE 2
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government's Road Paving Program
Road  Estimated CoBt         Present Status             Present Status
Road   ffi                            Length                                             of Engineering            of Financing
(km)         (FBu million)   (US$ million)
Gitega-Gihofi                           93             1,350            15.0          Feasibility study com-       Financing through
pleted.  Detailed            German bilateral aid
engineering proceeding.    possible.
Bujumbura-Rutovu                      134              2,000-1.         22.2          Detailed engineering         Financing agreed with
completed.                   People's Republic of
China.
Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo-            75              1,310            14.5          Detailed engineering         Proposed financing of
Rwandese Border                                                                       completed.                   Bujumbura-Rugombo section
through IDA and BADEA.
Bujumbura-Mutambara                     76             1,310            14.6          Detailed engineering         Financing agreed with
completed.  Prequali-        African Development
fication of contractors    Fund and Kuwait Fund.
completed.
Mutambara-Nyanza Lac                    45               780             8.7          Feasibility study            Proposed to Kuwait
completed                    Fund.
Kayanza-Rwandese Border                 21               340             3.8          Detailed engineering         Financing agreed with
completed.                   European Development
Fund.
Kayanza-Ngozi                           32               510             5.7          Detailed engineering         Financing agreed with
completed.                   European Development
Fund.
Ngozi-Muyinga-Kobero                  100              1,250            13.9         Feasibility studies           Proposed to Saudi Fund.
completed.
Total                           576              8,850           98.4
1/ No detailed estimates available.
Source: Appraisal Mission estimates and feasibility studies for respective roads.
February 1978



TABLE 3
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Comparison of Highway Densities
km of road                     km of road
per 1,000 km2               per 1,000 habitants
Burundi                              210                            1.4
Rwanda                               231                            1.6
Tanzania                              36                            2.6
Uganda .                             103                            2.9
Tunisia                               95                            3.0
Ivory Coast                         107                             6.7
France                            1,100                            14.3
Source: Bank Reports and Berger-BCEOM Study "Road Investment Program
1978-1987" February 1977
February 1978



TABLE 4
BURUNDI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet 1968-1976
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Private Cars       2,594   2,866   2,932   3,219   3,788   4,164   3,347   3,867   4,404
4-Wheel Drive
Vehicles             129     161      168     186      196     216      196     216      249
Station Wagons       143     153      149     157      164     170       87     108      122
Light Trucks
& Vans               662     780      812     923   1,086   1,201       881   1,057   1,300
Heavy Trucks         545     586      533     555      621     673      528     567      636
Buses                  7       7       10      10       10      23       37      45       64
Special Vehicles      44      48       46      46       51      56       57      63       66
4,124   4,601   4,650   5,096   5,916   6,503   5,433   5.923   6,841
Vehicles             247     225      195     252      2801/   3051/   3101/   3101'  3201'
4,371   4,826   4,845   5,348   6,196   6,808   5,443   6,233   7,161
1/ Mission estimates
Source: Burundi Highway Maintenance Project Appraisal Report, January 1974
Berger/BCEOM Highway Investment Program 1978-87 Draft Final Report, February 1977
February 1978



TABLE 5
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Revenues from Road Users
National           Import          Registra-
Year         Road Fund           Duties          tion Tax            Total
----------------------------- FBu million------------------------------
1972             19                71                11               101
1973              5                62                11                78
1974             81                71                11               163
1975             56               113                11               180
1976             75               130                16               221
1978             89               152                19               260
1980             99               177                22               298
1985            131               261                32               424
Source:  Berger-BCEOM study:  "Road Investment Program 1978-1987"
February 1977
Februarv 147R



TABLE 6
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Highway Expenditures
1967    1974    1975    1976    19771'
______----FBu million------------
A. Recurrent Expenditures2/
Personnel3/                         41.2    34.9    40.9    53.3    65.2
Fuel, Materials and Spare Parts   12.1    15.8    16.6         0.7     0.3
Subtotal           53.3    50.7    57.5    54.0    65.5
B.  Capital Expenditures4/
Equipment                           16.9    18.6    21.2    17.0    16.8
Studies                             n.a.    15.0      2.2      5.0     7.0
Construction                         7.2    n.a.    27.7   161.1   122.0
Subtotal           24.1    33.6    51.1   183.1   145.8
C. Foreign Aid
Fuel, Materials and S.pare PartsAI n.a.       -      32.0    32.0    35.0
Equipment5/                         n.a.     -       10.0    40.0    20.0
Studies5/                           n.a.     -        5.0    25.0   110.0
Construction6/                      n.a.   500.0   500.0   100.0       -
n.a.   500.0   547.0   197.0   165.0
TOTAL              77.4   584.3   655.6   434.1   376.3
1/ Estimates
2/ Actual expenditures of the DPC with funds provided under the
"Budget Ordinaire"
3/ Office and field personnel of DPC
4/ Funds provided under the "Budget Extraordinaire"
5/ Funds provided mainly under IDA Credit 467-BU and Belgian aid
6/ Consisting mainly of expenditures for the construction of the Bugarama-
Kayanza Road financed by the European Development Fund
Source: Ministry of Works, February 1977
February 1978



BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Capital and Recurrent Proiect Costs
1978                     1979                       1980                     1981                     Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
----------------------------------------------------   FBu   million   ----------------------------------------------------
A.  Capital Costs
1.  Main Road Construction                  90      167     257      162     301      463     107      201     308       -        -       -       359     669   1,028
2.  Improvement of Road Network             25       46      71       32      56       88      45       80      125      25       45      70      127     227      354
3.  Consulting Services                     20       79      99       30     119      149      13       53       66      13       13      16       66     264      330
4.  Maintenance Equipment                    5       35       40      10       71      81        5      33       38      -        -        -       20      139     159
and Laboratory                                                                                                                                                      a
5.  Contingencies:                                                                                                                                                    -
Quantity                              15       32      47       22      55       77      17       37      54        3        6       9       57     130      187
Price                                 12       26      38       37      84      121      42       95     137       10      24       34     101      229      330
Total Capital Costs                    167      385     552      293     686      979     229      499     728       41       88     129      730   1.658   2.388
S.  Recurrent Costs
1.  Salaries                                 6       -        6        6      -         6       7       -         7       8       -        8       27      -        27
2.  Wages                                  100       -      100      105      -       105     110       -      110      120       -      120      435      -       435
3. Office Overhead and
Training                              10       -       10       12      -        12      12       -       12       12       -       12       46      -        46
4.  Equipment Operating Cost                12       48      60       14      56       70      15       62       77      17       68      85       58     234      292
5.  Materials                               21       39      60       23      42       65      24       46       70      26       49      75       94     176      270
Total Recurrent Costs                  149       87     236      160      98      258     168      108     276      183      117     300      660      410   1,070
February 1978



TABLE 8
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo Road
Design Speed                                            80 km/h
Horizontal Curve:  minimum radius                      200 m
Vertical Curve:  minimum radius, crest               3,500 m
minimum radius, sag                2,500 m
Maximum grade                                            7%
Road width                                            8.50 m
Pavement width                                        5.50 m
Shoulder width                                        1.50 m
Pavement type:  sub-base                      Selected granular soil
base                         Cement stabilized granular soil
surface course               Double bituminous surface treatment
Pavement design load                                 AASHO
Bridges:  width of carriageway                        5.50 m
width of sidewalks                          1.10 m
loading                            30 t vehicle combination or
13 t single axle. (According
to French norms Fascicule 61)
Source: Consultants DIWI, Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo-Rwandese Border, Highway
Engineering Study, August 1974.
February 1978



TABLE 9
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bridgesl/ Proposed for Reconstruction
Average        Estimated
Road        km                            Daily Traffic   Construction
No.      Stone       River        Span      in 1976           Cost
US Dollars
Muramvya-Kibogoye    RP34        8.000   Mubarazi          8         > 20             44,000
Bujumbura-Bubanza    RIG9      11.500   Muzazi            10          125             50,000
Bujumbura-Bubanza    RIG9      26.500   Musenvi           12           40             54,000
RN6-Kirundo           RIG14     5.000   Kuntega            5           35             30,000
RN6-Kirundo           RIG14    10.500   Kuntega            6           35             34,000
RN6-Kirundo           RIG14    10.550   Kuntega            4           35             26,000
RN6-Kirundo           RIG14    24.800   Buyongwe           5           33             30,000
Gitega-Muyinga        RIG2     20.500   Nyakisuma          4           21             26,000
Gitega-Muyinga        RIG2     31.500   Muburundi          4           21             26,000
Gitega-Muyinga        RIG2     34.500   Mwicomwa           5           21             30,000
Gitega-Muyinga        RIG2     44.500   Gitamanuka         5           21             30,000
Mutambara-Bururi      RIG6      25.000   Kagoma            5           28             30,000
Boma du Chef-
Mabanda              RIG7       0.500   n.a.              4           33             26,000
Boma du Chef-
Mabanda              RIG7      6.000   n.a.               6           33             34,000
Boma du Chef-
Mabanda              RIG7     17.500   n.a.               6           33             34,000
Boma du Chef-
Mabanda              RIG7     25.000   n.a.               4           33             26,000
Boma du Chef-
Mabanda              RIG7      26.200   n.a.              6           33             34,000
Boma du Chef-
Mabanda              RIG7      26.500   n.a.              6           33             34,000
Gihofi-Giharo         RP85      1.000   Musindozi          6             )            34,000
Gihofi-Giharo         RP85      2.500   Musindozi          8             )2/          44,000
Gihofi-Giharo         RP85      4.000   Musindozi          6             )           34,000
TOTAL             US$710,000
n.a. - not available.
1/ Spans < 6m will be constructed as box culverts.
2/ Indispensable for agricultural project.
Source: Ministry of Works, February 1977 and Appraisal Mission Estimates.
February 1978



TABLE 10
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Stabilization of Steep Grades
Average daily
Road     km                  traffic        Surface to
No.    stone    Grade       in 1976       be treated
m2
Mutambara-Bururi           RIG6      9        12%         28             3,600
Mutambara-Bururi           RIG6     13        15%         28             1,000
Mutambara-Bururi           RIG6     15        12%         28             5,400
Mutambara-Bururi           RIG6     21        12%         28             6,600
Nyanza Lac-Mabanda         RIGll    16        12%         22             1,500
Nyanza Lac-Mabanda         RIGll    19        12%         22            12,000
Nyanza Lac-Mabanda         RIGll    20        13%         22             2,000
Nyanza Lac-Mabanda         RIGl1   20         14%         22             2,000
Byanza Lac-Mabanda         RIG11    21        15%         22             6,000
Boma du Chef-Mabanda       RIG7      5        13%         33             4,000
Boma.du Chef-Mabanda       RIG7     15        14%         33             6,000
Boma du Chef-Mabanda       RIG7     23        15%         33             8,000
58,100
say 60,000m2
Unit price per m2 including draining improvement:  FBu 1,500/m2
Total Cost:   1,500  . 60,000  =  FBu 90,000,000
Source: Ministry of Works, February 1977
February 1978



TABLE 11
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Investment Program
Estimated        First Year
Road                       Length          Cost           Return
km         US$ 000              %
1. Low Standard Gravel Road
Bujumbura-Muzinda                  15             310               27
Mutambara-Kigwena                  21             450               20
Gitega-Songa                        6             160               19
Kigangara-Mwaro                    15             435               18
Subtotal                 57          1,355
2. Improved Earth Road
RN6-Kirundo                        30              70               63
Intersection RIG3, RIG4-
Intersection RIG3,RIG5           6              15               61
Gitega-Makera                      11.5            25               56
Mutambara-Bururi                   29              80               55
Bururi-Ruzira                      25              60               54
Ruhororo-Ngozi                     23              55               46
Makera-Mukigo                      10.5            25               45
Makebuko-Ruyigi                    36              85               40
Makebuko-Bukirasazi                15              30               37
Kihanga-Randa                      10              17               33
Kitongo-Ruhororo                   25.5            60               31
Makamba-RIG6                       36              90               30
Muzinda-Randa                      13              25               28
Gitega-Kitongo                     31              70               28
Mukigo-Buhiga                      38.5            90               21
Randa-Bubanza                      11              25               20
Makamba-Mabanda                     20             45               17
Subtotal                371.0           867
TOTAL          428           2,222
Source: Berger-BCEOM "Road Investment Program 1978-1987" February 1977
February 1978



TABLE 12
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
Low Standard Gravel Roads
Terrain
Flat      Rolling       Mountainous
Design Speed                         km/h       60           40             30
Minimum Radius                        m        120           40             20
Maximum Grade                         %           6           7             10
Minimum Radius Crest                  m      2,200        1,500            750
Minimum Radius Sag                    m      1,600          500            300
Road Width                            m        8.0          8.0            7.0
Pavement Width                        m        5.0          5.0            5.0
Shoulder Width                       m         1.50         1.50           1.00
Pavement type                         Selected granular material
Source: Berger-BCEOM Study "Road Investment Program 1978-1987" February 1977.
February 1978



TABLE 13
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Equipment
No. of                                                     Unit Cost        Total Cost
Units        Description of Unit                                - US DOLLARS -
1           Utility vehicle                               40,000            40,000
1           Multipurpose Tractor                          40,000            40,000
9           Four-wheel drive vehicles                     10,000            90,000
5           Graders                                       70,000           350,000
6            Rubber wheel rollers                         55,000           330,000
6           Vibrating Rollers                             12,000            78,000
1           Bitumen spreader                              15,000            15,000
2           Loaders                                       60,000           120,000
1           Bulldozer                                     80,000            80,000
10          Tipping Trucks                                30,000           300,000
Miscellaneous                                                  57,000
TOTAL       1,500,000
Source: Appraisal mission estimates based on information from
the Ministry of Works, February 1977
February 1978



TABLE 14
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Calculation of Physical and Price Contingencies
1978       1979        1980       1981        Total
 --------------- Costs US$ 000 -        --------------
Main Road Construction
Base Cost Estimate             2,850       5,140       3,428                 11,418
Physical Contingency             285         514         343                  1,142
Total                          3,135       5,654       3,771                 12,560
Expected Price Increase          235         790         859                  1,884
Improvement of Road Network
Base Cost Estimate               790         980      1,380        782        3,932
Physical Contingency              79          98        138         78          393
Total                            869       1,078      1,518        860        4,325
Expected Price Increase           65         150        360        290          865
Consulting Services
Base Cost Estimate             1,100       1,650        730        183       3,663
Physical Contingency             110         165          73        18          366
Total                          1,210       1,815        803        201       4,029
Expected Price Increase          100         280        220         85          685
Maintenance Equipment and
Laboratory
Base Cost Estimate               440         900        427                  1,767
Physical Contingency              44          90         43                    177
Total                            484         990        470                  1,944
Expected Price Increase           25         120         88                    233
Assumptions:  Physical contingencies to cover unforeseen quantity increase are
equivalent to 10%.
Price contingencies, which provide for anticipated cost increases
over the implementation period, are as follows:
Rate of Cost Increase
1978         1979          1980          1981
Construction                 9%            9%           8%            8%
Consultant Services         10%           10%          10%           10%
Equipment and Laboratory    8%             8%            8%           7%
February 1978



TABLE 15
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA                                                  Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal Year                                             at end of quarter
and Quarter                                               (US $ thousand)
1978/79
September 30, 1978
December 31, 1978                                           _
March 31, 1979                                            1,000
June 30, 1979                                            3,300
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                       4,700
December 31, 1979                                        6,100
March 31, 1980                                           7,400
June 30, 1980                                            8,700
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                       9,700
December 31, 1980                                       10,800
March 31, 1981                                          11,800
June 30, 1981                                           12,900
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                      13,200
December 31, 1981                                       13,600
March 31, 1982                                          13,800
June 30, 1982                                           14,000
Source: Appraisal Mission estimates
February 1978



TABLE 16
BURUNDI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Program
Economic Costs and Benefits
(F Bu '000)
Capital and          Net Increase in        Vehicle Operating        Total Net
Year      Training Costs       Maintenance Costs          Cost Savings          Benefits
1974          35,300                   -                                        - 35,300
1975         149,700                 13,600                    -                -163,300
1976         265,400                 18,100                  64,200             -219,300
1977         129,300                 22,600                 121,000             - 30,900
1978         102,000                 27,200                 165,000               35,800
1979            -                    27,200                 194,300              167,100
1980                                 27,200                 208,000              180,800
1981            -                    27,200                 222,500              195,300
1982            -                    27,200                 238,100              210,900
1983            -                    27,200                 254,800              227,600
1984            -                    27,200                 272,600              245,400
1985            -                    27,200                 291,700              264,500
Economic Return:  21l
Source: Burundi Highway Maintenance Project Appraisal Report, January 1974
Berger/BCEOM Highway Investment Program 1978-1987. Draft Final Report,
February 1977
Mission estimates
February 1978



TABLE 17
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates
(US cents equivalent per km; net of taxes)
A. Level Terrain
1/
Road Type                                            Vehicle Type
Private                  Light      Medium      Heavy
Car       Pick-up      Truck      Truck      Truck
Poor Earth                         28.0         36.4        57.6       94.8       191.5
Good Earth                         22.6         30.3        46.3       75.4       152.3
Engineered Gravel (In-situ)        18.7         24.7        37.0       58.9       119.8
Engineered Gravel (Realigned)    16.5           21.9        30.3       47.9        93.3
Bitumen                            14.3         19.5        25.2       40.2        75.6
B. Undulating Terrain
1/
Road Type                                            Vehicle Typer
Private                  Light      Medium     Heavy
Car       Pick-up      Truck      Truck      Truck
Poor Earth                         30.7        41.9         74.3      124.0       240.1
Good Earth                         24.5         34.5        57.7       95.1      185.1
Engineered Gravel (In-situ)        19.8         27.0        43.3       70.1      138.3
Engineered Gravel (Realigned)    17.0           23.2        33.0       52.7      101.4
Bitumen                            14.6         20.2        26.9       43.3       80.7
1/ Peugeot 304; Toyota Stout 200; Fiat 2.5 ton; Mercedes 6.5 ton; Fiat 22 ton.
Source: Berger/BCEOM, "Highway Investment Program 1978-1987"
Draft Final Report, February 1977.
February 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Progress Reporting Requirements
1.        Progress Reports should be submitted quarterly in triplicate,
no later than one calendar month after the end of the quarter. The first
Report should cover the quarter ending September 30, 1978.
2.        The information that the Report should contain is described
below.
i) General Information: this section should refer to Project
Monitoring Indices (Annex II) in reporting the following:
a)  the physical progress accomplished to date of report
and during the reporting period;
b) actual or expected deviations from the project imple-
mentation schedule;
c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their
effects on the implementation schedule, and the steps
planned or taken to overcome the difficulties and avoid
further delay;
d) expected changes in the completion date of the project;
e) key personnel changes in the staffs of the Roads Depart-
ment, consultants or contractors;
f) matters which may affect the cost of the project; and
g) any development activity likely to affect the economic
viability of project components.
ii) A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, should show the progress in each project component.
iii) A financial statement should be set out in tabular form and
indicate for each project component:
a) original estimated cost;
b) revised cost, if appropriate;
c) actual expenditure;
d) projected expenditure; and



ANNEX I
Page 2
e) actual and projected withdrawals from the Credit Account.
iv) Finally, the Report should state the status of action on each
covenant of the Credit Agreement.
February 1978



*ugml                                                       AUE  2
APPEAISAL OF A SC0BD HIGRWAY #RMCr
Prolect Monitorinz Indices
Indices: Actual vs. estimates: absolute snd
Z. Where activity level, as measurod
by a specific index, in blow esti-
mates, the reason should be ascertained.
If a lower than anticipated activity
level is the result of an outstanding
problem, recomend corrective setion.
Indices
Actual as Z   Reason for  Reco_end Corree-
Istimated  Actual  of Estimated  Divergence  tive Action.  If Any
I.   Construction Work
1. Preliminaries to mobilization (months)
2. Volume of earthwork Cm3)
3. Length of subbase (km)
4. Length of base (ha)
5. Length of shoulders (ha)
6. Lengtb of surfacing (km)
7. Pipe culverts (nos.)
8.  Box culverts (nos.)
9. Length of bridges (a)
10. Construction work completed (date)
11. Contractor certificates for payment (USS or
12. Payments to contractor (US$ or __)
13. Consultant services (man-months)
14. Payment to consultants (US$ or _)
II.  Improvement of Road Network
1.  Preliminaries to appointment of consultants
(months)
2. Duration of consultant services (man-months)
3. Payment to consultants (US$ or
(A) Bridges
1. Preliminaries to start of bridge construc-
tion (months)
2. Construction period (months)
3. Length of bridges (meter)
4. Construction cost (USS or
(B)  Stabilization
1. Preliminaries to start of stabilization
works (months)
2. Construction period (months)
3. Stabilized surface (meter2)
4.  Cost of stabilization (US$ or _
(C) Investment Program
(1) Improved Earth Roads
(a) Preliminaries to start of force
account works (months)
(b) Construction period (months)
(c) Length of road improvement (km)
(d) Costs (PBu)
(2) Low Standard Gravel Roads
(a) Preliminaries to start of construc-
tion (nmths)
(b) Volume of earthwork (a3)
Cc)  Volma of surifc  gra _, ___
(d) Length of road improvrnnt (ki)
(e) Pipe culvert, (a)
(f) Construction period (months)
(g) Contractor certificates for pay-
ment (US$ or_)
(h)  Payments to contractor (US1  or
III. Maintenance Equipment
1. Preliminaries to bid invitation (montbh)
2. Arrival of equipment (date)
3. Payment to suppliers (US$ or_)
IV. Laboratory Improvement
1. Preliminries to selection of consulrat
(maths)
3. Preliminaries to bid invitation for eq'ip-
t (tbs)
4. Arrival nf o_ipmelt (data)
5. Payment to suppliers (VS or
6. Prelmina ri*s to start of force account
fur building rconstruction (months)
7. Conatxuction period (swlIa
B. Construction cost (}lu)



BURUNDI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF WORKS
Ministfr       |
Planning and                                                                                Roads and 
Design Dept'                                                                                Bridges Dept.                                   Buildings
lBCT)                                                                                       lDPC) 
IuSurveyr&e1                                                                                                                       S
| Road          ||Town Planning|
| Laboratory            nergy                MaintenanceAdministration                                                                                            tork
|    Township    l l  Bridges  |  |   Manua       |      Mechanized                 Control             Accounting                                     Supplies
T.= Roa s    | |                   || Maintenance               Maintenance
J   Earth &    l           l    zone (4)    | |   Mechanized                  Secretary's            Personnel               Workshop                Stores
Gravel Roads,                                   IF |   Units (5)                                                    |    I
Paved Roads                     Districts (8r
l   l  l    Equwpment   | Crars  p    Motors          orld   antr
|   etos(48)|
World Bank-17448






CORAT 2
APPRAISAL OF A SIONCD HIGHWAY PROGTECT
I.l.aentatimn Schedule
1977            1978                  .1179                1980                  1981                 1982
Responsible                                                                                           1    j          1          (
Maicdocivftiea             ~~~Authority                 I      2           2    3             4    1 2    3    4        1    2     3    4          2    3     4
Credit Agreeaent signd 
Date of Credit effectiveness
I.  Mlai. Road Conatrction
- Seletion of ...naultanta                    BE
-IDA approval                                 IDA
-  iaiainof tender documents           SC!
C            - ~~~~IDA approvl                               IDA
-Prequallfication of contractors              BC1
-IDA approval                                 IDA
B idding period
-Evaluation of bide                           BCT
-IDA approval                                 IDA
-Award of contract                            BCT
-Construction                             Contr-ctor                                    -a
II.  Improvemeent of Soad Nietwork
-Selection of  onltant.                     DpC/BC1 
-IDA approval                                 IDA
A. Bridges
- Sandard engineering                 Consultant
-Construction by forceacout               DPC
B.  Stabilization
-Preliminary engineering              Con..ultant
*Preparation of tender documet.           OCT IDPC
-IDA approval                             IDA
B idding period
Evaluat ion of bids                      SCT/DpC
-IDA approval                             IDA
Award of nontrect                        OCT
*Standard eninee.ring                 Conultant
C* . Cntrutiong                       Contractor                                                                              -
C.  Inveztumnt Progra
I.  Improvd Earth Roads
-Standard engineering            Consultant                                               -
C-Cntruction by force                                                                                                                        I
account                              DKC
2.  Lo. Standard Grave  Roads
-Preliminary engineering          Consultant
-Preparation of tender
documents                            OCT
- IA Opproval                        IDA
-idding perio
-Evluat.ion of bids                   aCT
-IDA approval                         IDA
-Award of cotract                     OCT
-Standard engineering            Con8ultant
-Construc tion                   Contractor                                                                                             I          
III.  Technical As.iatance-                                                         -     -    -    -     -                             
IV.  Maintenane Eguipment
P-PrparatI-onf tender documents               DPC
-IDA approval                                 IDA
B idding period
valuati'on of bids                           DPC
-IDA apoal                                    IDA
-Award o!f contract                            P
-Equipment delivery                        Suppliere
V. Laboratory lnpowvessem
A.  Technical Aasistance
-  election of consutant,                 511
-IDA approval                             IDA
-Consultatsrie                        Cnsutant:-                                   -     -    -                   
S.  Laboaraory Equipment
-prepar-tion of tender documets           OCT
-IDA approval                             IDA
-idding period
- Rd avBato                                CT
- DA approval                            IDA
-Contract award                           OCT
-Equipment delivery                    Eupplier
C. Suilding Reconstruction
-Design                                   OCT
- Eas-tion by force accont                DPC
Februory 1978






IBRD 11731R
3'2-'                                     360h bonale he,,o this snwp do snot
7 /LakeMe SekoutuSe6. eSekl=1imply                                                                                          by the m    "pranc by the
tu Sese SekoTroroWordBOmk awi.di  qfftiateo.
\      i   UGANDA             oId       o r et                                            (      A FR  CA
| LFe1~~~~~~a7sese                                                                              KENYA 2AEg
0-                   AREA COVERE-
0    Lake Idi Ami,ny A
Cyonika              un/gaJm,-*o  T:    
'rts      h         uUfs a itumbQ    -    
fluhengerlg<r    \   /  ttcrOttX   P            \                     x~~~~~         ~      ~~~ ~~IROBI'   . 
I                                9                                                       o&\soNX7*8 iseKIL 
/X/ Uviru                                                                                                                    40<\ ! v d3 ak \' 1/ ' " '0- '
UV             Gi        OEES                                                       j    Ol  RFNRE
_4 ) 1 hi 'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kusule                                                    j                                           >/fM8ASA.'t
LLI             igoma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1\ -Aff'r,J-..,--
AJ   \   {tomQ                     ~~~~~~~~ ~~TabooJ                                                                   -ffA
a.                            Nt\ erGANYIKA  TAN ZA N I A
LU                                                                                                                              DA \. .<AES SAiLAA* 
Morogoro           f      :
-8)    -\ALk                                                                               B U R U N D I                                   :
< _ \k, <INTERNAT IONAL TRANSPORT CONNECTIONS:
/ t JLake                      L .-                                                     PAVED ROADS                6         
M  ///weru                                                     EARTH  ROADS                                   
0 >            ZAMBIA                                                                                                 t.
.      40 60 eo ,o l           roo 15  200                             8|8       RA I LWAYS                                     '_
;   IIIIILES                   ;Lr2Re p   \             ~~~~~~~- - =~,-  INTERNATIONAL BOLlNDARIES                            .t
!          to   soao  aso Iro -.0      400,   AO{OwiVX                             CEMENT PLANTS                                               =
J                ~~~~~~~KILOMETERS             v.      t*\;                         OIL REFINERIES                         4-        -          4 






CEN-TRAL                          -     -
Af RICA       A C        E N 7M OAL. I
;:7, )A I ./R;etEStt'<:Wf ttGS9Dt-SAlz'  SECONDt HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROAD  ASYTEM
AI N      . 0 A 
F, 2  A wq                                                         R Agor
y      z~        / 
40''                                    '-,0   ~~~~~~~1o~b~ ~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.-,    *slstj                   ~MpS..P8 -    I   - -   5-    '   B j' :.r .; z,    .    .' |
'9R . ,'i- '-
O'g. ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     I ITE3~
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  - -
?9'30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V
-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z  O  (R                                 - -~  -
14t~~~~~~~~1
I X                 I    ~ rAea             
-~~~~~~~" -                       R d1 
Fa4vi 4(fE --Y.-~. ~,znd -             Mt MlA g'C-eo
Et~ ~
j    \BUJUMBJJ                     C>.                R~,songo
Rubug. ~~           ug-      EJ
Woe  Ev~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E



