CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 773 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 29, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 773 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to borrow from Banque Arabe pour
le Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) six million one
hundred thousand dollars ($6,100,000) equivalent to assist in
financing Parts A and C.1 of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BADEA (hereinafter called the BADEA Loan Agreement);
and
(C) the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Nations
Development Programme have agreed to provide to the Borrower part
of the technical assistance included in Part D of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to extend the Credit to
the Borrower upon the terms. and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "MTP" means


﻿-2-
the Ministere des Travaux Publics, de 1'Equipement et du
Logement of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1988, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2027, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on September 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MTP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts C, D and F.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. The
Borrower shall appoint adequate local counterpart staff to the
consultants employed for purposes of carrying out Parts D and F.1
of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the


﻿-4-
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. Promptly after completion of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the exe-
cution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived or to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
April 30, 1978, prepare and furnish to the Association a road
investment program for at least five years and exchange views with
the Association thereon; and (b) thereafter adopt such program,
give the Association a reason-ble opportunity to comment on any
proposed changes thereto and, from time to time, review its
execution with the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30,
1978, prepare and furnish to the Association a plan of action
satisfactory to the Association to assign gradually to two dif-
ferent departments within MTP, the responsibility for the con-
struction and maintenance of roads in Bujumbura and in the rest


﻿-7-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Travaux Publics,
de l'Equipement et du Logement
B.P. 1860
Bujumbura
Burundi
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINITRABLICS                      MINAFFEXT 65
BUJUMBURA                         Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Laurent Nzeyimana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andre Gue
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  5,540,000        45%
(Part A of
the Project)
(2) Civil works                  3,100,000        80%
(Parts B and
F.3 of the
Project)
(3) Road maintenance             1,500,000        100% of foreign
and laboratory                               expenditures and
equipment (Parts                             80% of local
E and F.2 of the                             expenditures
Project)
(4) Consultants'                   270,000        100% of foreign
services (Part                               expenditures and
C.1 of the                                   65% of local
Project)                                     expenditures
(5) Consultants'                 1,280,000        100% of foreign
services (Parts                              expenditures and
C.2, D and F.1                               65% of local
of the Project)                              expenditures
(6) Unallocated                  2,310,000
TOTAL       14,000,000


﻿-5-
of the territory of the Borrower; and (b) thereafter, carry out
such plan.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) at all times maintain
the position of coordinator of the Borrower's road investment
program; and (b) employ for such position a competent and experi-
enced person.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (a) adequately maintain
its national road network in accordance with sound engineering
and financial practices; (b) adequately maintain all of its
highway maintenance equipment and make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering prac-
tices; (c) establish and maintain workshops and inventories of
spare; parts as required for the foregoing; (d) provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing, including not less than 2,500,000
dollars equivalent every calendar year during the execution of the
Project starting January 1, 1978; and (e) by October 31 in each
year during the execution of the Project and starting in 1978,
exchange views with the Association on the adequacy of such amount
taking into account such factors as inflation, price variations,
and changes in traffic patterns and volume.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all measures reasonably
required to ensure that the dimensions and axle--loads of vehicles
using its nationail highway network shall not exceed limits con-
sistent with the design standards of such roads.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of a loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of Parts A and C.1 of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or


﻿-6-
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event spe-
cified in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date June 29, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre des Travaux Publics, de
1'Equipement et du Logement of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.


﻿- 9 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in cum-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) expenditures
under Categories (1) and (4) unless the BADEA Loan Agreement
has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to
its effectiveness or to the right to make withdrawals thereunder
have been fulfilled.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Association then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associ-
ation are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 10 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to: (a) reconstruct the
Bujumbura - Rugombo road, (b) improve the Borrower's classified
road network, and (c) continue the road maintenance program partly
financed under Credit No. 467-BU of the Association.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Reconstruction of the Bujumbura - Rugombo road (about 65
kilometers).
Part B:   Improvement of the classified road network of the
Borrower by:
1.   replacing selected obsolete wooden bridges;
2.   stabilizing selected steep road sections;
3.   upgrading about 57 kilometers of dirt roads to low
standard gravel roads; and
4.   improving the drainage facilities and road surface
of about 370 kilometers of dirt roads.
Part C:   1.  Supervision of construction of the roads included
in Part A hereof.
2.   Detailed engineering for, and supervision of, the
improvement of the network included in Part B
hereof.
Part D:   Technical assistance to improve the road maintenance
operations of the Borrower.
Part E:   Acquisition of road maintenance equipment and its
utilization during the carrying out of the Project.
Part F:   Improvement of the Borrower's soils and materials
laboratory by:
1.   training laboratory personnel;


﻿- 12 -
2.   acquiring and utilizing laboratory equipment
and vehicles; and
3.   reconstructing the laboratory building.
The roads included in Parts A and B.3 of the Project will
be reconstructed or upgraded in accordance with the design
standards set forth in the Exhibit to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 13 -
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Road Design Standards
Bujumbura-Rugombo
(Part A of the Project)
Design speed                                        80 km/h
Horizontal Curve: minimum radius                   200 m
Vertical Curve: minimum radius, crest            3,500 m
minimum radius, sag             2,500 m
Maximum grade                                        7%
Road width                                        8.50 m
Pavement width                                    5.50 m
Shoulder width                                    1.50 m
Pavement type: sub-base            Selected granular soil
base               Cement stabilized granular soil
surface course     Double bituminous surface
treatment
Pavement design load                               AASHO
Bridges: width of carriageway                     5.50 m
width of sidewalks                      1.10 m
loading                  30 t vehicle combination or
13 t single axle. (According
to French norms Fascicule 61)
Low Standard Gravel Roads
(Part B.3 of the Project)
Terrain
Flat    Rolling   Mountainous
Design Speed               km/h       60        40        30
Minimum Radius              m        120        40        20


﻿- 14 -
Terrain
Flat    Rolling   Mountainous
Maximum Grade               %          6        7         10
Minimum Radius Crest        m      2,200    1,500        750
Minimum Radius Sag          m      1,600      500        300
Road Width                  m        8.0      8.0        7.0
Pavement Width              m        5.0      5.0        5.0
Shoulder Width             m         1.50     1.50       1.00
Pavement type               Selected granular material


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works for
Parts A, B.2, B.3, E and F.2 of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the
General Introduction thereto, on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower shall
prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general pro-
curement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice
in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for Parts B.1, B.4 and F.3 of the Project
may be carried out by force account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to


﻿- 16 -
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two confirmed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


