Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6091 
Operation Name 
Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Agricultural extension and research (30%); General transportation 
sector (20%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector 
(20%); Other domestic and international trade (15%); General 
energy sector (15%) 
Project ID 
P117495 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P.O. Box 158 
Rwanda 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Boulevard de la 
Révolution, Opposite of 
Postal Address: P.O Box 158, KIGALI - RW 
Rwanda 
Tel: + 250 252 576701 
Fax: Fax: +250 252 5775 
mfin@minecofin.gov.rw 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Boulevard de la Révolution, Opposite of 
Postal Address: P.O Box 158, KIGALI - RW 
Rwanda 
Tel: Tel: + 250 252 576701 
Fax: (250) 577-581 
mfin@minecofin.gov.rw 
Date PID Prepared 
November 4, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 22, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 24, 2011 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government of Rwanda has been implementing a comprehensive reform program to alleviate 
poverty and stimulate growth since 2002.  The World Bank has been supporting this effort through the 
Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG).  The first series, PRSG 1-3, focused on laying the foundation 
for improved service delivery in the social sectors and growth.  The series supported: (i) improvements 
in the quality, coverage, and equity of basic service delivery to support human development; (ii) an 
enhanced overall public expenditure management and economic governance process, with emphasis on 
results and expanding the voice and participation of citizens; and (iii) policy measures to improve the 
investment climate and development of the private sector, with a focus on export promotion.  
Implementation over the course of PRSG 1-3 was satisfactory and substantial results were achieved. 
 
The second series of PRSG (4-7) supports the Government's increased focus on growth as outlined in 
the Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS), Rwanda's second poverty 
reduction strategy paper.  The strategy focuses on accelerating growth, with emphasis on 
Page  2
decentralization and a greater role for the private sector. In line with the EDPRS, the second PRSG 
series deals with measures to generate sustained economic growth, with an emphasis on improving 
delivery of economic and infrastructure services.   
 
Supported by the second PRSG series, Rwanda continues to make satisfactory progress in implementing 
its poverty reduction strategy.  In 2009, the overall economic growth rate was only 4.1 percent due to a 
slightly delayed impact of the global economic downturn.  This represented a sharp decline of previous 
years’ growth which averaged 7.5 percent and culminated in a record 11.2 percent in 2008.  For 2010, 
the economic growth is estimated at 5.4 percent. 
 
The Bank is a prominent development partner in Rwanda for its technical contributions to the policy 
dialogue.  The Government also values the Bank's ability to provide significant resources to narrow the 
gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the EDPRS.  Through the PRSG, the Bank 
supports the Government's preference to receive a significant part of IDA resources as general budget 
support with the objective of enhancing domestic ownership, capacity building through learning by 
doing, and accountability to domestic stakeholders by relying on the government’s budget process for 
the use of donor resources. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
PRSG 7 will focus on the following areas:  
 
(i) sustainably raising agricultural production;  
(ii) increasing access to infrastructure services;  
(iii) strengthening the framework for post-basic education, to build a skilled workforce and promote 
science and technology;  
(iv) deepening the financial sector including capacity building measures to facilitate increased access to 
finance by micro-enterprises;  
(v) strengthening the management of public resources at the central and local levels. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG-7) continues to support the Government 
of Rwanda as it implements
 
measures to foster broad based growth in the context of enhanced 
decentralization reforms.  PRSG-7 is the fourth and last operation in the second series of PRSGs 
(beginning with PRSG-4).  It forms an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), 
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on September 26, 2008 in support of the Government’s 
Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS).  The EDPRS covers the period 
2008-2012 and describes the government’s development objectives following a decade of achievements 
in rehabilitation and reconstruction. It presents a strategy focused on accelerating growth and human 
development, with an emphasis on decentralization, and a greater role for the private sector. The EDPRS 
priorities are articulated through three flagship programs aimed at promoting sustainable growth and 
poverty reduction and improving governance.
 
The reform program supported by the PRSG-7 is aligned to Rwanda’s Common Performance 
Assessment Framework (CPAF). The CPAF was developed during PRSG-5 implementation, under the 
leadership of the Government of Rwanda (GoR) and in close collaboration with donors and other 
development partners. The policy measures and indicators have been prioritized based on consultations 
and discussions held both through the sector reviews and sector working groups, as well as the Joint 
Page  3
Budget Support Group.  Prior actions and triggers for PRSG-7 were agreed to with the GoR and are part 
of the CPAF. They reflect the broad based consultation undertaken in-country in its preparation.  It also 
reflects the principles elaborated in the Partnership Framework that accompanies the CPAF.  
4. Environment Aspects 
 
This operation is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, 
Development Policy Lending, 
and therefore 
is not subject to OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment. 
Following Bank policy requirements, specific 
country policies supported by the PRSG 7 are not likely to cause significant effects on Rwanda's 
environment, forests and other natural resources.  Any likely adverse effects on the environment are 
expected to be minor and manageable through the existing Bank framework in place for the PRSG 7 
areas of support. In the current PRSG series, such minor environmental effects may arise through 
measures to support irrigation, watershed management and terracing, rural road maintenance, and 
fertilizer distribution.   
 
Several aspects of the PRSG-7 reform are likely to generate positive environmental benefits.
 
The 
removal of taxes on LPG will permit a gradual substitution of LPG for charcoal, resulting in a reduction 
of green house gasses. New water tariffs are expected to result in a more efficient use of water resources, 
allowing for better conservation of that scarce resource. Finally, through developing the capacity of 
private sector agro-dealers in input procurement and distribution at decentralized levels, the reforms 
should lead to better use of fertilizer which will be distributed more efficiently than under the previous 
governmental system. Although this is likely to eventually result in an increased uptake of fertilizer, 
currently, the total level of fertilizer use is so small that barely 40 percent of the country's total needs are 
being met.  Therefore, the quantity of fertilizer that is likely to get distributed through improved private 
sector involvement is not expected to be large enough to have significant adverse environmental 
impacts, and it should have substantial positive impacts on poverty and smallholder productivity. 
 
As with the first series of PRSGs, the current series (PRSG 4 to 7) will rely on two areas to address 
potential environmental concerns: (i) continued strengthening of the overall framework for 
environmental management in Rwanda; and (ii) environmental management assessments undertaken in 
the context of other Bank projects.
 
PRSG-7 will rely on environment assessments developed under the on-going IDA operations in energy, 
transport, agriculture, and private sector development.  An extensive Environmental Assessment and 
Social Analysis undertaken during PRSG 1 remains relevant.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY 
80 
 Total 
80 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Birgit Hansl 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5396+304 / 250-252-591-304 
Fax:  
Email: bhansl@worldbank.org 
Location: Kigali, Rwanda (IBRD)
Page  4
