Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4868-RW 
 GRANT NUMBER H644-RW 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 11, 2011  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4868-RW 
GRANT NUMBER H644-RW 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 11, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
RWANDA (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter-alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I A of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit (collectively, 
“Financing”) in the following amounts: 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to forty-five million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 45,500,000) (“Grant”); and 
(b)  
an amount equivalent to twenty-two million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,300,000) (“Credit”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
-3- 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in 
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-4- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P. O. Box 158 
Kigali 
Republic of Rwanda 
 
Facsimile: + 250-252-57-75-81 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Kigali, Republic of Rwanda, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By 
/s/ John Rwangombwa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ Omowunmi Ladipo 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
Revision of Education Sector Strategic Plan to include greater focus on, and cost 
of, post-basic education and its linkages to the labor market as well as science, 
technology and innovation. 
2. 
Completion of a study on electricity tariffs and its validation by the Rwanda 
Utilities Regulatory Agency and the Ministry of Infrastructure. 
3. 
Removal of taxes (import duty and value added tax) on liquefied petroleum gas 
to promote its use and reduce dependence on charcoal. 
4. 
Design of a tariff framework for urban water services that promotes efficiency, 
reliability, equity and sustainability of water resources. 
5. 
Development, costing and initiation of action plan for capacity building of 
private sector agro-dealers in agricultural inputs procurement and distribution, 
particularly at decentralized levels. 
6. Adoption
 by the Recipient’s Cabinet of a comprehensive framework of support 
to small and medium enterprises (including consolidation of financing 
mechanisms). 
7. 
Gazetting of the regulation governing payment service providers in the financial 
services sector. 
8. 
Completion of the piloting of the integrated financial management information 
systems in central government and its integration with the integrated personnel 
payment information system (IPPS). 
9. 
Approval by the Recipient’s Cabinet of the bill to amend the procurement law to 
increase efficiency and transparency of public procurement. 
10. 
Adoption by the Recipient’s Cabinet, and operationalization, of a comprehensive  
five-year capacity building strategy for Local Government. 
11. 
Approval by the Recipient’s Cabinet of the general statutes for the public service. 
 
Page  6
-6- 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
.
The Financing is allocated in a single 
withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the 
Financing.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out 
in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
45,500,000 
22,300,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
45,500,000 
22,300,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; 
and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
D.   
Deposit of Financing Amounts   
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the 
following two deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts”) at Banque Nationale du 
Rwanda on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:   
 
(a)  
a deposit account in United States Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit 
Account”); and  
 
(b) 
a deposit account in Rwandan Franc (“Local Currency Deposit 
Account”).   
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the 
Recipient shall ensure deposit by Banque Nationale du Rwanda of the local 
currency equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit Account. The 
Page  7
-7- 
 
Recipient will report to the Association on the amounts deposited in the Foreign 
Currency Deposit Account and credited in local currency to the budget 
management system with an indication of the exchange rate applied. All amounts 
withdrawn from the Local Currency Deposit Account shall be used exclusively 
for budgeted public expenditures. 
 
E. Audit
.
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, and make such report publicly available in a timely 
fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Association; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
Page  8
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each 15 March and 15 September: 
 
commencing March 15, 2021 to and including 
September 15, 2030 
1% 
commencing  March 15, 2031 to and including 
September 15, 2050 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Banque Nationale du Rwanda” or “National Bank of Rwanda” means the central 
bank of the Recipient, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Law 
No. 55/2007 of July 30, 2007. 
 
2. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the 
Local Currency Deposit Account. 
 
3. 
“Education Sector Strategic Plan” means Recipient’s plan dated July 2010 which 
serves as a foundation for education sector planning in the years 2010-2015 and 
provides the overarching framework for a holistic sector-wide approach to the 
development and delivery of education services in Rwanda.   
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  10
-10- 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
5. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in 
 
Part D.1(a) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1(b) 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
 
8. 
“Local Government” means a local government established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Constitution of 2003 and various legislation of the 
Recipient, including Organic Law Nº 29/2005 of December 31, 2005, 
determining the administrative entities of the Republic of Rwanda. 
9. 
“Ministry of Infrastructure” means Recipient’s ministry responsible for 
infrastructure or any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated December 30, 2010, from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
Page  11
-11- 
 
11. 
“Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency” means Recipient’s agency, established 
and operating pursuant to legislation No. 39/2001 of September 13, 2001, as 
published in the Recipient’s government gazette No. 20 of October 15, 2001. 
 
12. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of  
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
Page  12
-12- 
 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
