Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6224 
Operation Name 
Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Agricultural extension and research (30%); General transportation 
sector (20%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector 
(20%); Other domestic and international trade (15%); General 
energy sector (15%) 
Project ID 
P117495 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
PO Box 158 
Kigali 
Rwanda 
Tel: +250-252- 576-701             Fax:  +250-252-5775 
mfin@minecofin.gov.rw 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
PO Box 158 
Kigali 
Rwanda 
Tel: (250-252) 576-701              Fax:  +250-252-5775 
 
mfin@minecofin.gov.rw 
Date PID Prepared 
December 15, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 9, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
February 24, 2011 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Government of Rwanda has been implementing a comprehensive reform program to 
alleviate poverty and stimulate growth since 2002.  The World Bank has been supporting this 
effort through the Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG).  The first series, PRSG 1-3, 
focused on laying the foundation for improved service delivery in the social sectors and growth.  
The series supported: (i) improvements in the quality, coverage, and equity of basic service 
delivery to support human development; (ii) an enhanced overall public expenditure 
management and economic governance process, with emphasis on results and expanding the 
voice and participation of citizens; and (iii) policy measures to improve the investment climate 
and development of the private sector, with a focus on export promotion.  Implementation over 
the course of PRSG 1-3 was satisfactory and substantial results were achieved. 
 
The second series of PRSG (4-7) supports the Government's increased focus on growth as 
outlined in the Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS), Rwanda's 
second poverty reduction strategy paper.  The strategy focuses on accelerating growth, with 
emphasis on decentralization and a greater role for the private sector. In line with the EDPRS, 
Page  2
the second PRSG series deals with measures to generate sustained economic growth, with an 
emphasis on improving delivery of economic and infrastructure services.   
 
Supported by the second PRSG series, Rwanda continues to make satisfactory progress in 
implementing its poverty reduction strategy.  In 2009, the overall economic growth rate was only 
4.1 percent due to a slightly delayed impact of the global economic downturn.  This represented 
a
sharp decline of previous years’ growth which averaged 7.5 percent and culminated in a record 
11.2 percent in 2008.  For 2010, the economic growth is estimated at 6.5 percent. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
PRSG 7 will focus on the following areas:  
 
(i) sustainably raising agricultural production;  
(ii) increasing access to infrastructure services;  
(iii) strengthening the framework for post-basic education, to build a skilled workforce 
and promote science and technology;  
(iv) deepening the financial sector including capacity building measures to facilitate 
increased access to finance by micro-enterprises;  
(v) strengthening the management of public resources at the central and local levels. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank is a prominent development partner in Rwanda for its technical contributions to the 
policy dialogue.  The Government also values the Bank's ability to provide significant resources 
to narrow the gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the EDPRS.  Through 
the PRSG, the Bank supports the Government's preference to receive a significant part of IDA 
resources as general budget support with the objective of enhancing domestic ownership, 
capacity building through learning by doing, and accountability to domestic stakeholders by 
relying on the government’s budget process for the use of donor resources. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($million) 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
104.4 
 Total 
104.4 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Given the nature of the operation, institutional and implementation arrangements will rely on 
Government processes and will also be aimed toward building capacity. In particular, monitoring 
and evaluation arrangements will continue to rely on government arrangements with the aim of 
strengthening government capacity and institutions. MINECOFIN’s Strategic Planning Unit is 
responsible for overall monitoring of the EDPRS. In addition, the Budget Monitoring and 
Reporting team report on spending of the budget and related outputs. This team also ensures that 
Page  3
the sector spending plans are incorporated into the macro-MTEF, and budget. The Bank will 
work closely with these two units to monitor spending and outputs achieved under the proposed 
operation. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Expected benefits are as follows: (i) improved service delivery in the education sector, 
particularly in post-basic education, (ii) increased access to infrastructure services, specifically in 
electricity, water and roads; (iii) increased agricultural productivity through better use of land 
and higher use of fertilizers; and (iv) improved efficiency of spending by supporting reforms to 
strengthen the MTEF and public procurement process. 
 
Key risks to the program are: (i) adverse impact on aid flows due to  changes in the international 
perceptions about political governance and human rights in Rwanda;  (ii) Government capacity 
to implement the EDPRS; and (ii) the persistence of effects of the global economic slowdown. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
This operation is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, Development Policy Lending, and 
therefore is not subject to OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment.  Any likely adverse effects are 
expected to be minor and manageable through the existing Bank framework in place for the 
PRSG 7 areas of support. In the current PRSG series, such minor environmental effects may 
arise through measures to support irrigation, watershed management and terracing, rural road 
maintenance, and fertilizer distribution.  An extensive Environmental Assessment and Social 
Analysis undertaken during PRSG 1 remains relevant in this regard.  As with the first series of 
PRSGs, the current series (PRSG 4 to 7) has relied on two areas to address potential 
environmental concerns: (i) continued strengthening of the overall framework for environmental 
management in Rwanda; and (ii) environmental management assessments undertaken in the 
context of other Bank projects. 
 
PRSG-7 will rely on the on-going IDA operations in energy, transport, agriculture, and private 
sector development, and on small grants for environmental capacity building provided by UNEP. 
The operation will also support GoRs efforts to mainstream improved environmental stewardship 
into the medium-term expenditure framework of MINIRENA. The approach will focus on long-
term sustained support to building capacity to address environmental concerns in the 
implementation of the EDPRS.  
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Birgit Hansl 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5396+304 / 250-252-591-304 
Email: bhansl@worldbank.org 
Location: Kigali, Rwanda (IBRD) 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
Page  4
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
