RETURN TO
RESTRICTED
REPORTS DESK                                                                    -21a
W¡THtN                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Report No. PA-a
WI¡THINNL   Ln
OrNE WEEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affilioted organizations.
They do not accept responsibllity for ¡ts accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HONDURAS
December 16, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                                         =  Lempiras 2
Lempira 1                                    =  Us$ o.50
Lempiras 1,000                               =  US$ 500
Lempiras 1,000,000                           = Us$ 500,000
WEIDHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)                               =  2.20 pounds
1,000 kg                                      =  2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                              =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                                =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer(km2) = 100 ha              =  0.39 square mile
=  247.11 acres
1 liter                                       =  0.26 gallon
1,000 millimeters                             =  39.37 inches
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GNP                                           = Gross National Product
IDB                                          =  Inter-American Development
Bank
NÇDB                                          =  National Development Bank
PB                                           =  Participating Bank



HOND~0AS
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...  .................................                     ii
I.         INTRODUCTION .          ....................................1
II.        BACKGROUND ...........         ............................           1
A.   General ........       ...........................              1
B.   The Livestock Sub-sector .................      ...             3
C.   Animal Uealth .    .............................                5
D.   Agricultural Services .....         ..................          5
E.   Agricultural Credit ......         ...................6 
F.   Government Policies on Livestock Development                    7
Gr   Land Tenure         ................... ............            7
III.       THE PROJECT .          ....................................8
A.   Description .....................                               8
B.   Project Area            ................................        9
C.   Cost Estimates .......        .......................           9
D.   Proposed Financing ................ .    ..........            10
E.   Procurement .......        ..........................          11
F.   Disbursements ............ ......................              12
G.    Auditing ..     . .................................           12
H.   Organization and Management..                                  12
Project Administration ....................                 12
Technical Services .....          ...................       13
I.   Lending Operations ......           ....................       13
Policies          ..................................        13
Terms and Conditions .................                      13
IV.        MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCERS' BENEFITS             ..........       14
Markets ........        ...........................         14
Prices .............................. *..............       15
Producer Benefits ......         ...................       16
V.         BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....            ..................       16
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS .....   17
This report vas prepared by Messrs. F. Knobel, D. Argyle,
A. Otten (IDA), and F. Thomas (Consultant), with Mr. Knobel having primary
responsibility.






ANNEXES
1.   Composition of Exports
2.   Organization Chart - Ministry of Natural Resources
3.   The Banking System, pp 1-4
Table 1 - Loan Portfolio by Sector of the Banking System
Table 2 - Amount and Per Cent of Agricultural Credit by Kind of
Lending Institution
Table 3 - Summary of Financial Account, Central Bank
Table 4 - Consolidated Balance Sheet of Principal Banking
Institutions
4.  Model 1 - Development of Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch, 400 ha
Table 1 - On-Ranch Investment Cost Projections
Table 2 - Herd Development Projections
Table 3 - Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 4 - Financial Projection
5.   Model 2 - Development of Dairy-Steer Fattening Ranch, 150 ha
Table 1 - On-Ranch Investment Cost Projectiona
Table 2 - Herd Development Projections
Table 3 - Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 4 - Financial Projection
b.  Model 3 - Development of Beef Breeding Ranch, 1,500 ha
Table 1 - On-Ranch Investment Cost Projections
Table 2 - Herd Development Projections
Table 3 - Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 4 - Financial Projection
7.   Project Costs and Foreign Exchange Component
8.   Technical Services Budget
9.   Phasing of Project Investments
10.  Project Organization Chart
11.  Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities of Project Director
12.  Projected Sources and Application of Funds - Central Bank Livestock
Account
13.  Projected Sources and Application of Funds - Participating Banks
14. Cattle Population - Supply and Demand Projections
15.  Financial Rate of Return of Ranch Models
16.  Economie Rate of Return
MAP - Project Areas






HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a livestock development project in Honduras.
This would be the first Loan/Credit made by the Bank Group to Honduras in the
agricultural sector. It would also be the country's first project in the
agricultural-livestock sector that vould provide long-term private commercial
bank loans to ranchers on terms and conditions appropriate for the develop-
ment of their ranches.  The banks vould make a sizeable contribution to the
Project in the form of capital for ranch investments and operating capital,
plus technical and administrative services.
ii.       The principal objectives of the Project are to assist Honduras in
its national agriculture policy to raise its extremely low level (3.7 kg per
capita, 1967) of beef consumption and to assist in its diversification of
agriculture with particular emphasis on production for exports. Today, its
principal export earnings are from bananas, followed in much lesser amounts
by coffee, timber and cotton.
iii.      The objective of the Project vould be achieved by financing the
development of approximately 135 beef ranches and dairy farma. Investment
inputs, expert technical services and good management would increase na-
tional livestock production by about 15% as compared with pre-project con-
ditions.
iv.       The Project would be country-wide, but vould be carried out prin-
cipally in the North Atlantic zone vhich has the greatest concentration
of suitable ranches and most favorable resources for development.
V.        The coordination of Project policies would be by a Project Comnis-
sion representing the various institutions concerned with livestock develop-
ment in Honduras. The management and execution of the Project vould be
under a Project Director, assisted by livestock technicians employed by
participating banks but seconded to his office for purposes related to the
Project.
vi.       Total Project cost, estimated at US$5.2 míllion, would be financed
approximately as follows:
Amount         Percent
(US$m)
IDA Credit             2.6            50
Comercial Banks        1.8            35
Ranchers               0.8             15
5.2           100



- ii -
The estimated foreign exchange component is US$1.1 millíon. This repre-
sents about 20% of total Project cost and 40% of the Credit.
vii.      Goods required for the Project vould be obtained through exist-
ing comercial channels in Honduras.  Several retail sources are available
and active competition exists to assure an adequate supply as vell as satis-
factory servicing. Input items such as agricultural machinery and equip-
ment, vire fencing, and veterinary supplies are imported from United States,
Japan, Western European countries and are distributed through local fran-
chised dealers. Disbursements from the Credit for ranch development would
be a percentage (75%) of ranch development loans disbursed by participating
banks. Such loans, based on ranch development plana approved by the Project
Director, vould be granted by the banks at 9% interest for terms of 8-12
years including grace periods of 3-5 years.
viii.     The rate of return to the economy vould be about 18%. Partic-
ipating ranchers would earn about 16% to 21% on their incremental invest-
ments under the Project. Substantial increased net earnings vould begin
around Year-10 when full ranch development would be achieved.
ix.       The Project i8 suitable for an IDA credit of US$2.6 million.  The
Government vould on-lend about US$2.4 million of these funds to the Central
Bank for channeling to private commercial banks and a private finance company
for long-tern ranch development loans. The other US$0.2 million would be
a grant by Government for technical services. Surplus funda not required
to amortize the IDA Credit during the first 16 years of the Credit vould be
relent by the Central Bank to participating banks, or other qualified finan-
cial institutions, for livestock purposes.



HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Honduras has requested financial assistance to
provide long-term funis for financing livestock development, mainly beef
cattle. An IBRD mission helped prepare the Project in March 1967. At that
time a broadly-based Government committee vas established which prepared
the Project under direction of the Central Bank.
1.02      The original investment program developed by the committee totaled
about US$14 million and an external fíinacing of about US$8 million vas re-
quested. The other US$6 million vas to be provided by livestock producers,
commercial banks, Central Bank and Government.  The program involved a
country-wide development of about 300 ranches; each ranch would be e.bout
300 ha in size, carrying on average 300 head of cattle prior to development,
and about tvice this number at full development.  The IDA found thae. this
type of ranch was not suffíciently characteristic of the industry and pro-
posed to Government three types of ranching enterprises. Furthernore, in
viev of the limited number of suitable ranches and the limited suppiy of
female stock for breeding, and steers for fattening, the IDA agreed vith
Government on a reduction of the investment program to about US$5.2 million
and about 125-150 ranches. Although the Project vould cover the whole of
Honduras, about 85% of the ranches vould be in the North Atlantic zone.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission led by
F. Knobel and composed of D. Argyle and A. Otten (IDA) and F. Thomas (Consul-
tant), vhich visited Honduras in January/February 1969.
II. BACKGROUND
A.  General
2.01      Honduras is the poorest of the Central American countries U/.
The countrfi is small and quite mountainous vith a total land area of
115,000 km  (45,000 sq mi).  Of this only 15% is tillable.  Bounded by the
Caribbean Sea, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala, and the Pacifie Ocean, the
principal economic activities are centered around banana exports from the
2/   GNP per capita expressed In US dollars:  Costa Rica $410, El Salvador
$270, Guatemala $310, Honduras $240, Nicaragua $360, Panama $550.
Source: World Bank Atlas, 1969.



-2-
coastal plain along the Caribbean coast.  Recent road and port develop-
menta vith considerable Bank Group assistance 1/ have contributed to uni-
fication of the country, developed additional accese to the Pacific and
into El Salvador, and opened up new agricultural possibilities.
2.02      The country can be divided into three zones - Atlantic, Central
and Pacific - (see Map):
(i)  The Atlantic zone comprises 46% of the total land area and
contains the most productive and extensive valleys in Honduras.
The zone runs in a broad belt along the Caribbean coast. It
has a reliable rainfall of 1,500 - 2,000 m= per annuim with a
semi-dry period of tvo to four months.  Soile in the valleys,
coastal plaina and low hills are fertile and vell suited to
intensive cropping, livestock production and the banana indus-
try. The area ls vell serviced with infrastructure and com-
mercial facilities; hoaever, a considerable portion of the
eastern end í8 virtually uninhabited, providing Bcope ín the
long-run for new development.
(ii) The Central zone is generally hilly to mountainous and com-
primes 41% of the total land area.  The valleys are generally
amall and discontinuous, making cormunications difficult.
Soils are generally of loy fertility, but much of the area í8
cropped on a shifting rotation. Rainfall varles from 900 -
1,100 mm per annum, but there la a severe dry season of about
five months from January to June.
(iii)  The amall Pacific zone, making up the rest of the total land
area, is largely arable land vith average fertility. Rainfall
varies from 1,000 - 1,800 =m but there is a pronounced dry
season of approximately five months during January-June.
2.03      The Honduran economy i8 predominantly agricultural vith agriculture
- lncluding forestry and fishing - contributing 40% of Gross Domestie Product
and occupying about 70% of the 2.4 million population.  Bananas are the most
important single crop, accounting for about 35% of agricultural produetion.
The banana industry is concentrated ln the Atlantie zone on plantations
largely owned by two companies.  Livestock production la about one fifth of
total agricultural production. Principal farm cash crope include coffee,
cotton, corn and tobacco.  Three-fourths of the farm units are under six ha
snd many contain hilly slopes. Larger farns usually have more than one
enterprise, but only a limited number of faraers depend on livestock opera-
tiona for the major source of income.
2   Loan 135 -Righway Maintenance, 1955  Loan 463 - EXpans ion and Improve-
Loan 195 - Highway Construction, 1958   ment, Puerto Cortes, 1966
Loan 400 - Road Construction, 1965    Credit 1 - Western Highvay Proj-
Loan 495 - Highway Paving, 1964          ect, 1961
Credit 71 - North Road Project,
1965



-3-
2.04      Agricultural products account for 75% of total exports, of which
about half ís bananas. The country experienced a satisfactory ínerease in
Gross National Product averaging 5% per annum over the 1964-1968 period,
partly absorbed by a population increase of around 3.4% per year.  Growth
was mainly export induced; banana exports more than doubled due to a quick
recovery of banana Droduction in this period following replacement of di-
sease infected plantations (Annex 1). Ample foreign exchange reserves en-
abled Government to promote industrial growth successfully by liberalizing
imports of raw materíals and equipment.
2.05      The outlook for the future is somewhat less promising.  Banana
production would still inerease during the next three years, 1969-72, but
at a slover rate than in the past. It is likely that production would level
off after 1972 as it is exoected that export prices vould decline. Further-
more, the country is faced with uncertain world markets for two other lead-
ing exnort conmodities:  coffee and cotton.  Increased export demand la ex-
pected to continue for livestock, in particular live cattle and beef, but
cattle production has not been incneasing. There ís wide scope for an ex-
panded production of good quality cattle through improvement of animal
husbandry, whlch can be realized by an adequate supply of ranch development
credit combined with technical services.
B. The LiveBtock Sub-sector
2.06      The cattle population ls estimated at 1.3 million head of beef,
milk, and draft animals.  However, most of these animals (75%) are on small-
scale mixed farms which average about 10 head each.  These farma generally
have limited scope for livestock expansion but many are receiving assistance
from the National Development Bank (NDB) through programs supported by the
United States Agency for International Development and the Inter-American
Development Bank. The larger and more efficient ranchers have received
little credit except for short-term production purposes. It ie estimated
that less than 5% of all farms vith cattle have the potential for econo-
mically expanding beef production. Consequently, the number of eligible
farms limits the scope of the Project.
2.07      In terms of land area, cattle are distributed fairly evenly:
Atlantie zone accounts for 41%, Central zone 43%, and the Pacifie zone 16%
of total population. Traditionally, most cattle are dual purpose (milk and
meat), even on larger ranches, but there is a trend tovard grealer beef
specialization, especially on ranches with more than 500 head. In recent
years there has been a nominal increase in swine production and a marked
inerease in poultry production, especially broilera for domestic consumption.
2.08      The beef cattle industry is best developed in the Atlantie zone.
Most of the larger ranches are found in this area and the quality of cattle
is better than ín other zones. The area is the main source of export beef
and whole milk production. Stocking rate i about one animal pér ha but,
with good management, this could be increased, over much of the zone, to
two animals per ha.



-4-
2.09      Most cattle in the Central zone are on small non-commercial type
farms, providing draft pover, meat and milk for home consumption, or cheese.
The quality of stock is generally poor. Overall stocking rates are about
one animal per ha. The variable rainfall pattern and infertile 90ils gi .
a safe carrying capacity of not more than one animal per ha.
2.10      The Pacific zone carries a surprisingly high number of cattle in
ratio to land area, particularly in view of the dry season, and stocking
rates of one or more animals per ha on many properties are above safe carry-
ing capacities. Hovever, by-products from cotton and sugarcane are avail-
able for supplemental feeding, and green feed is produced by irrigation
on some ranches. Production is more commercially oriented and cattle qual-
ity 15 somewhat better than in the Central zone.
2.11      Most of the cattle are of the native or criollo type.  In recent
years there has been considerable introduction of improved breeds from the
United States in the Atlantic zone and some introduction in the other zones.
The most favored improved beef breed ia the Brahman, followed, to a much
lesser extent, by Santa Gertrudis and Charolais. Por dairying, Brown Swiss
is the most popular followed by Holstein and Red Polled. Purebred bulls are
available fron the Government's Comayagua Stud Farm, United Fruit Company
and several private studs, at prices below imported animals. Artificial in-
saemination services are available for most major dairy herds.
2.12      Commercial offtake has averaged only about 13% since 1950, but with
the national herd showing very little increase. This is mainly the result of
inadequacies in animal husbandry, nutrition and parasite control resulting ,
in iiigh calf losses, slow growth rates and an effective calving rate of only
35-40%. The average age of slaughter steers is 4-5 years with an average
liveweight of about 275 kg (600 lb), being higher in the Atiantie zone.
2.13      Livestock exports have increased in recent years.  With production
not rising (para 2.12) there has been a fa). in domestic consumption of beef
from the low level of 6 kg per person in 1961 to 3.7 kg per person in 1967.
This has been due mainly to the rising price of beef, resulting from the
higher prices being paid for the cattle by the meat exporters and cattle buy-
ers from Guatemala. Strong export demand for beef wil). probably continue to
limit the availability of beef for domestic consumption.
2.14      There are ample slaughter plants in the country for slaughtering
and processing of boneless frozen beef for export. Processing facilities
would be adequate for the Project since about 70% of the beef produced
vould be exported (para 5.01). Slaughterhouse facilities for local con-
sumption are poor and many aninals are illegally slaughtered for local
consumption.
2.15      The only modern milk plant is at San Pedro Sula in the Atlantic
zone. Demand for its products has been steadily increasing and should con-
tinue. Raw milk is collected from a considerable part of tbe zone, and the
products are distributed to a wide area of Honduras including Tegucigalpa,
300 km dístant.



-5-
C.  Animal Health
2.16      Poor nutrition and failure to follow basic principles of good live-
stock husbandry are the most iLtportant factors contributing to poor animal
health and performance. The most serious deficiency is the inadequate nutrí-
tion of calves which normally receive only a portion of the motherlB mulk.
This practice results not only in heavy calf mortality but slow growth, poor
reproductive performance and susceptibility to disease. Poor pastur-e man-
agement practices and lack of forage conservation for dry periods also con-
tribute to poor nutrition.
2.17      The most important diseases are brought about by a variety of
internal parasites:  calf scours, and such infectious díseases as blackleg,
hemorrhagic septicaemia and anthrax. Tickborne diseases are hazarda to lm-
ported cattle but can be controlled by pre-immunization. Infestation by
varble fly can cause high physical and economic losses. This and other in-
festations can be controlled by dipping or spraying. Facilities for this
purpose on Project ranches are provided in the Project.
2.18      There is no foot-and-mouth disease as a result of effective quaran-
tine restrictions. This is of particular signifícance in the development of
ftuture exports to Europe or United States.
D. Agricultural Services
2.19      The national institutions responsible for the development of the
livestock sector are primarily the Ministry of Natural Resources, operating
through its specialized departments and its semi-autonomous Extension Serv-
ices (DESARRURAL), the National Development Bank, and the National Agrarian
Institute. There are, hovever, numerous other national and international
institutions which both directly and indirectly provide services and credit
to the livestock industry (Annex 2).
2.20      The general organization of the Ministry and the Extension Service
is good. There is also good liaison at senior and fíeld levels between the
National Development Bank and the Ministry. The specialized departments of
the Ministry dealing wlth animal health, varble fly control and artificial
insemination have specific programs to follow. Hovever, these institutions
should give more emphasis to defining long-term livestock development poli-
cies.
2.21      Graduate professional staff for work in the livestock sub-sector
is limited. A recent detailed study 1/ shows that in Honduras there are 35
2]   "Orgenizacion Administrativa del Sector Agropecuario de Honduras" IICA
October 1968 Vol. 1.



-6-
professionally qualified veterinarians. General agriculturists vrith
formal training are in greater supply. These largely form the fleld
staffs of the National Development Bank and Extension Service, which
now have about 100 such personnel. The Extension Service intends to in-
crease its staff from the present 60 to about 100 in 1971.  In addition,
the Ministry of Natural Resources has about 75 trained vorkers in re-
search.  Technical services that would be required for the  Project vould
be supplied by the participating banks (para 3.22) and there are adequate
resources, both private and government, to provide any specialized serv-
ices, e.g., veterinarian.
E. A&ricultural Credit
2.22      Institutional agricultural credit, vhich includes l.ivestock credit,
18 provided principally by a government development bank, aix private com-
mercial banks and one private finance compeny.  The aount of credit granted
more than doubled during 1964-1968, rising fron L30 millíon (US$15 million)
to L72 million (US$36 million). Hovever the ratio of agricultural credit to
total creX4t for all sectors has remaíned relatively the same, being around
30% (Annex 3, Table 1). About two-thirds of the agricultural credit comes
from the National Development Bank (Government), 30% from private conmercial
banks, ana the other 5% from the private finance company.  Agricultural sup-
pliera' credit ¡e nominal, but borrowing from traditional private lenders is
common smong low-income rural farnilies.
i:
2.23     .Credit for agriculture and livestock is mostly short-term.  Very
few medium-term loans, perhaps leas than 100, have been granted for livestock
developnent, almost entirely by the National Developme-nt Bank.  A sizeable
amount of.credit i8 furnished by the banking system for financing the pur-
chase of iature steers for fattening.  This in 1968 amounted to about L10
million (US$5 million). The Central Bank provides short-term credit by re-
discounting agricultural `paper` not exceeding 360 days at 4% interest.  The
interest rate for all types of rural credit averages about 9%.  This com-
pares with credit for cormercial purposes at around 8%.
2.24      The private commercial banking system i8 vell developed.  It is
agressive, competitive, and covers the entire country. All the principal
banks have headquarter offices in Tegucigalpa. Credit. for agriculture and
livestock i8 principally short-term for purposes of production, marketing
and financing feeder cattle. The amount of agricultural credit held by the
banks has steadily increased from about L19 million (US$9.5 million) in 1964
to L27 million (US$13.5 million) in 1968 (Annex 3, Table 2). The banks are
becoming inereasingly avare of the importance of broadening their agricultural
credit service by making long-term development loans. It is expected that
three to five of the banks and a private finance company, nov extending
agricultural credit, vould participate in the Project. They vould be in a
position to contribute a portion of the financial requirements as vell as
providing the necessary administrative and technical services.



-7-
2.25      Although the National Development Bank (NDB) is the principal sup-
plier of rural credit (para 2.22), it would not participate in the Project.
It obtains capital from Government and external sources, principally the
Inter-American Development Bank and the US Agency for International Develop-
ment. Its credit operations, which principally are vith lo income farmera,
have not been satisfactory. Financially, NDB has experienced arnual oper-
ating losses and there is need for better technical services. Annex 3 con-
tains further information on the banking system in Honduras.
F. Government Policies on Livestock Development
2.26      A three-year development plan, 1969-71, prepared by the National
Planning Council, is being considered by the Cabinet.  It states that the
goals of Government policy toward agriculture, among others, are:  "t-o
raise the supply of livestock products for domestic consumption" and "to
diversify agricultural production vith particular emphasis on production
for export". This program calls for an increase in agricultural inveat-
mente from the present 4% of total public investments to a level of' 12%,
most of the inerease going into irrigation and land settlement schemeR.
2.27      With respect to livestock, the Plan envisages a continuation of on-
going programs in the fields of animal health, livestock improvement and
animal breeding. In 1969 Government budgeted L2.6 million (US$l.3 Million)
Lor these programs or slightly more than 1% of the total budget (current
and capital expenditure combined) of which about L880,000 (us$44o,ooo) re-
presented capital investments in the livestock sector, or 1% of total public
investments. Thi8 share for the livestock sector is not commensurate with
the stated objectives. The pressing need to increase livestock production
la demonstrated by the loy and declining beef intake per capita, and the
groving contribution of both the beef and saine industry to exports.
2.28      The Project would support livestock development through an inte-
grated approach to ranch development, based on a combination of, capitsl
investments and technical services, and would make an important contribu-
tion tovards the objectives of the National Development Plan.
G. Land Tenure
2.29      An Agrarian Reform Lay vas passed in 1962.  It declared that pri-
vately owned ranches vould not be expropriated provided that they vere prop-
erly managed.  The law defines "proper management" as a minimum stocking rate
of 0.5 animal unit per ha. Since all ranches participating in the Project
vould reach a stocking rate vell beyond this minimum rate, they vould not be
adversely affected by the Agrarian Reform Lay.
2.30      Many state and conmunal lands have been oecupied in the past for
private use. In many cases, clear titles of private ownership have not been
established by the users, but if land pressure develops, such lands could be



claimed by the National Agrarian Institute for redistribution among peasants.
A cadastral survey is being carried out by the Institute to determine the
extent of this situation.
2.31      Loans to ranchers participating in the Project would be baseá on
lande with clear titles.  The participating banks do not aaticipate eny
serious difficulty in this respect.
III. THE PROJECT
A.  De!scç    n
3.01      The Project vould be a five-year program for the development of
about 135 existing ranches vhich by type and size vould range approximately
as follows:
- 75 beef breeding/fattening ranches, 400 ha
(Model 1, Annex 4? Tables 1-i4)
- 50 dairy-steer/fattening ranches, 150 ha
(Model 2, Annex 5, Tables 1-4)
- 10 beef breeding ranches, 1,500 ha
(Model 3, Annex 6, Tables 1-4)
The development program would be carried out through the provision of long-
term development credit vith funds from IDA and private commercial banks
together with short-term operating credit from the banks, supported by
technical services.
3.02      The ranch development program would include financing of limited
land clearance for new pasture establishment, but major emphasis would be
placed on the improvement through cleoring of regenerative bush and reseeding
of large areas of existing pasture lands.  Other ranch development vould in-
elude fencing, water supply, facilities for handling stock and controlling
disease, farm machinery, purebred bulls, improved commercial breeding COWs,
and feeder steers.
3.03      The coordinating and supervisory authoríty for the Project would
be a Project Commi±ssion.  The technical services would be headed by a Project
Director, assisted by a staff of qualified livestock technicians who vould
be employed by participating banks.
3.o4      Working capital for purchase of feeder steers, for fattening on
surplus pastures available during development, vould be supplied by partie-
ipating banks. This finance is important to the success of the Project since
it would ensure better use of pasture resources, thereby giving higher eash
incomes to ranchers during the time required to build-up their breeding herd
inventories.



-9-
B. Pr2oect Area
3.05      About 85% of the ranches participating in the Project would be in
the Atlantic zone and vould be concentrated in Sula Valley in the Departments
(provinces) of Atlantida and Cortes (see Map). Most of the beef breeding/
fattening (Model 1) and dairy-steer/fattening (Model 2) types of ranches
vould be in this zone. It i9 the most favored area in the country for live-
stock production due to climate, topograxhy and soil. It has a vide variety
of natural and introduced grasses including guinea, molas8es, para, pangola
and elephant. It also has better types of cattle than other areas, and has
ready access to markets.
3.06      Participation in the Central zone would be limited, and would be
principally in the eastern part vhere ranching operations on an extensive
scale are found (see Map, Departments of Olancho and El Paraiso).  The require-
ments in this zone are mainly to improve the quality of breeding stock, to
increase pasture production, and to improve its utilization by conservation
of fodder for dry season feeding.  Most of the beef breeding ranches (Model 3)
would be in this zone.
3.07      The Pacific zone is largely utilized for cropping and mixed farm-
ing.  Physical problems of livestock production in this zone are similar to
those in the Central zone (para 3.06), but in some areas there are ample
supplies of groundwater vhich could be further developed for supplementary
irrigation of fodder crops. Development in this zone would include a few
beef breeding/fattening (Model 1) and beef breeding (Model 3) types of ranches.
3.08      The Project management office would be in the Central Bank,
Tegucigalpa, capital of Honduras, so that a strong liaison vould be maintained
with governmental services and banking institutions.  Although about 85% of
Project loans would be made in the northern Atlantic zone, accessibility and
communícations between Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula (trade and commercial
center of Atlantic zone) are good by telephone, cable and several daily com-
mercial airline flights.
C. Cost Estimates
3.09      Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in Honduras.  An
additional aiount of about 10% 18 included to cover unforeseen costs.  The
estinat.e of total Project cost ls US$5.2 million, which is summarized in the
folloving table:



- 10 -
Total Project Cost
Lempiras '000 _US' 000 Eqiuivalent
Categories                    Local   Foreígn   Total    Local        y        Tota .
Development Cai_tal
Ranch Development             2,658       908    3,566    1,329        454    1,783
Breeding Cattle               2,660       410    3,070    1,330        205    1,535
Machinery and Equipment         196       462       658        98      231       329
Contingencies                   680        76       76       28                  378
Subtotal                 6,194    1,856    8,050    3,o44         981    4g025
Working Capital /a
Feeder Steers                 2,060       -      2,060    1,030         -      1,030
Technical Services              140       212       352        70      106       176
Grand Total              8,394    2o68        462          4,144  0       5231
la   Reflects the amount of ineremental credit needed to finance the purchase
of feeder steers for fattening.
3e10      The estimated foreign exchange expenditure is US$1.1 million.
This would represent 21% of total estimated Project cost and 42% of the
Credi.t. See Annex 7 for detailed components of Project devel9pment costs
and Annex 8 for technical services budget..
D. Proposed Financin;
3.11      The estimated Project cost of US$5.2 million would be financed as
follow.,:it
ComnLercial
IDA Credit    Banks        Ranchers   Central Bank   Total
Cae…us$ -… -                                             00
Development Capital       2,>415         805          805            -         4,025
(D:Lstríbution)           (60%)         (20%)        (20%)                    (100%)
Working Capital             -          1,030          -              -         1,030
(Distribution)                         (100%)                                 (100%)
Technical Services          140          -            -              36          176
(lDistributiíro)    _      (80%)        -                           (20%)    (100%)
Total               2,555        1,835          805             36        5,231
(Distribution)          (49%)        (35%)        (15%)           (1%)     (100%)



- 11 -
3.12      On the above basis, IDA funds would finance 60% of on-ranch in-
vestments and 80% of technical services or about 49% of total Project cost.
This would mean that in addition to the foreign exchange component of US$1.1
million (para 3.10) IDA would finance about US$1.5 million of local curreney
expenditures.
3.13      Participating commercial banks would finance 20% of on-ranch in-
vestments and 100% of working capital requírements, or, on average, about
35% of total Project cost. The short-term credits provided by the banks
would also be used to purchase feeder steers. To ensure availability of
funds for short-term credit, assurances vere obtained during negotiations
that the Central Bank would redíscount short-term credit paper if not
otherwise available from the banks' own resources.
3.14      The ranchers would contribute, on average, 20% of estimated on-
ranch development costs in the form of cash, labor and materiíal..  In some
instances they would make a further contribution because their annual net in-
come during the early stage of ranch development is reduced due to retention
of breeding stock which otherwise would have been sold (Annex 6, Table 2).
3.15      Funds from the IDA credit would finance the cost of the Project
Director including salary, international travel, family end housing allow-
ances, and the foreign exchange component of goods associated with his serv-
ices, e.g., a vehicle. Other costs including in-country travel, salaries of
office staff and miscellaneous office expenses would be paid by the Central
Bank. The Central Bank would also provide office facilities.
E. Procurement
3.16      Goods required for ranch development, including fencing, agricul-
tural machinery and equipment, materials for ranch structures, pasture seed,
and livestock would be obtained through existing commercial channels. These
channels are adequate for the Project. Since there are several retail sources
for most goods, both imported and local, sufficient competition in the supply
of goods is assured. Inputs having a high foreign exehange component such as
agricultural machinery, equipment, fencing, fertilizers and veterinary sup-
plies are imported from countries in Western Europe, the United States and
Japan. Charges on imported goods and dealers' markups are within an accepta-
ble range (15-25%), and there are no discriminatory import quotas or controls.
Adequate facilities exist for the servicing and maintenance of agricultural
machinery and equipment.
3.17      All purchases of breeding stock required for the Project would be
subject to the approval of the Project Director with respect to the quality
and suitability of such stock. Since the type and quality of anímals required
can only be obtained from specific regions of the world, international com-
petitive bidding would not be appropriate for livestock procurement. Because
of its proximity to Honduras, United States has been the principal source of
imported cattle.



- 12 -
F. Disbursements
3.18      Disbursementa from the Credit would be made to the Central Bank
against 75% of the ranch development loans (60% of ranch development cost)
disbursed by participating banks upon documentation submitted to the Central
Banko. Such documentation would include disbursements by development categor-
¡es, country of origin of goods, certification by the lending bank that dis-
bursements irere made for approved ranch development purposes, and approval
of the Project Director. The documents would be submitted by the Central
Bank to IDA to support withdravals from the Credit account., Disbursements
from the Credit for services of the Project Director (para 3.15) vould be
made upon appropriate documentation submitted by the Central Bank on behalf
of Governnent.  Full disbursement of the Credit vould be achieved w'ithin five
years although around 80% of the Credit would be disbursed by the end of the
third year.  See Annex 9 for phasing of Project investmenta.  Any unused
funde should be channeled to the Central Bank for livestock purposes.
G. Auditing
3.19      There are several independent auditing services which would be
acceptable to IDA, both the official Government auditing bodies such as
the Superintendent of Banks and External Auditor, and at least two inter-
national auditing firms, Price Waterhouse and Company, and Peat, Marwick,
Mitehell and Co. (USA). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Central Bank and each participating bank would maíntain separate ac-
counts for the Project activities, that these accounts would be audited
annual2ly by an accounting service acceptable to IDA, and that the audit
report would be submitted to IDA not later thian four months after the close
cf the respective insti.tutionla fiscal year.
H. Organization and Managlet
Project Adminístratíon
3 20      The Government would be the Borrover and the Central Bank would
act as Administering Agency for the Project. Coordinating and supervisory
authority would be vested in a Project Commission created by Government
decree.  Thís Commission vould formulate policies and procedures and approve
the Project Director. The Commiesion vould be composed of representatives
from various Government entities, participating banks, and the National
Cattlemenls Association.  Government would be represented by the Central
Bank, Ministry of Natural Kesources, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance,
Zational Agrarían Institute, National Planning Council and, as an observer,
the National Development Bank because of its important role in agricultural
credit.  The Project Director would act as Executive Secret ary. The organi-
zational structure of the Project Comnmssion (Annex 10) together with its
funetions would be subject to the approval of the IDA. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiationa.
I



- 13 -
Technical Services
3.21      The Project Director would be responsible for the execution of
the Project, dealing particularly with the technical, financial and eco-
nomic aspects. He would approve or reject ranch development plans and would
submit approved plans to participating banks for lending.  He and his tech-
nical staff vould supervise the execution of ranch development plans. This
technical staff of livestock technicians would be employed by the partici-
pating banks and seconded to his office for purposes of the Project; he
would train and supervise their work. The duties, responsibilities and
authoritíes of the Project Director are set forth in Annex 11. During ne-
gotiations, it vas agreed that a Project Director would be employed through-
out the disbursement period (5 years); that his qualifications, duties,
responsibilities and terms of contract would be subject to IDA approval;
and that his appointment would be made before thé effective date of the
Credit Agreement.
3.22      Government agreed that recruitment of a Project Director outside
of Honduras would probably be necessary.  No difficulty ¡a expected on the
availability in Honduras of four to five livestock technicians that would
be required from the participating banks. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that participating banks would employ and second to the Proj-
ect livestock technicians acceptable to the Project Director.
I. Lending Operations
Policies
3.23      Applications and loans would be processed and serviced by private
commercial banks and the private finance company. Loan applications would
meet the creditworthiness criteria of these institutions which would bear the
full loan risk. Security for loans vould include real estate mortgages
based on acceptable titles, and if needed, chattel mortgages on livestock and
equipment. Increased real estate value resulting from ranch development im-
provements would be reflected in the values established for collateral pur-
poses.
Terms and Conditions
3.24      Government would make available to the Central Bank the proceeds
of the IDA credit to be used for on-ranch development purposes in local cur-
rency at 4.5% interest per annum for a term of 16 years. 1/ The Central
Bank would repay the principal to Government at 1% per year during Years 11-
15 (same as IDA terms) and the balance at end of Year-16. Since surplus
1/   A 16-year period is used to cover 12-year ranch loans made in the
third year of the Project plus one year for slippage.



- 14 _
funda vould acerue from the payments received from the participating banks
(para 3.25) these funds would be made available to participating banks by
the Central Bank for livestock credits. The rollover would add about Lll
million (US$5.5 million) to the Lending Program (Annex 12). At the end of
the 16-year period, all IDA funds used for ranch development would be re-
paid to Government. During negotiations, assurances as to these terms and
conditions were obtained.
3.25      The Central Bank would establish and maintain a Livestock Project
Account to relend the Credit funds to each participating bank approved by it,
equal to 75% (60% of ranch development costa) of the loans disbursed by the
participating banks for ranch development purposes. These funds would bear
5% interest per annum and would be repayable on terms similar to those grant-
ed by the banks to ranchera. The spread of 0.5% between the cost of Credit
funds from Government and the on-lending rate of 5% vould be used by +he
Central Bank to pay the local and office costs of the Project Director and
for reimbursement of its administrative services related to the Project.
Duríng negotiationa assurances vere obtained vith respect to these terms
and conditions.
3.26      Development loans, based on ranch development plano approved by the
Project Director, vould be made to ranchers by participating banks at 9% in-
terest for terms of 8-12 years including grace periods of 3-5 years. An in-
terest rate of 9% is in line wíth the prevaílíng rate for rural credit (para
2.23) and vould be an acceptable rate to the ranchers. The difference between
this on-lending rate and the rate of 5% at which IDA funda vould be obtained
from the Central Bank (para 3.25) would give the banks a spread of 4%. This
would be adequate to cover the cost of technicians seconded to the Project
(para 3.22), the loan risk, the admininstrative cost and profit. Loans
greater than US$100,000 would require prior approval by IDA. The application
of funda generated by the Project is shown in Annex 13. During negotiations,
aseurances as te these lending terma and conditions were obtained.
IV.  MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCERS' BENEFITS
Marketa
4eOl      Until recently the beef cattle sub-sector produced mainly for do-
mestie consumption, which ís still low. In 1961, beef consumption was only
6 kg per capita compared with an average of 11 kg for all Central American
countries, and 70% of production was for the domestic markets; the remaining
30% consisted of live cattle exporta to neighboring countries for fattening.
Beef production has since found additional outlets, principally in the form
of bonelase frozen meat exports to the United States. Honduran exports to
thís market have risen much faster than the increase in United States imports.
While vorld-wide meat imports almost doubled in the 1960-68 period, imports
from Honduras increased fourfold. At present, 53% of Honduran cattle pro-
duction is for the export market, of which 36% is processed into boneless
frozen meat, and 17% is exported on the hoof - mainly to Guatemala.
1402      Meat importe into the United States are subject to import control
legislation. At the end of 1968, the United States applied the Meat Import



- 15 -
Act 1/ for the first time, limiting boned frozen meat imports to a 4% inerease
in 1969.  The allowed increase is applied equally to all exporting countries.
Extraction from the national herd, however, has reached its upper limít under
present production practices. Projections on the basis of historic trends
indicate that without implementation of the Project, production vould not in-
crease over the 1966 level during the next five years. Under such conditions,
even a small increase in exports of 2.5% annually would further reduce avail-
ability of beef for local consumption (Annex 14). With the Project, an in-
crease over present production levels from 4% in the fourth year up to about
15% in the tenth year is estimated. Of this approximately 70% would be ex-
ported. The Project would contribute in the tenth year about 30-35% of the
increase in exports.
4.03      There is a free market movement of cattle vithin londuras, and no
sales or export taxes are levied at any point. Export packing plants pay
slaughter taxes averaging L4.20 (US$2.10) per head as compared with taxes
and fees of up to L8 (uS$4) being paid at municipal slaughterhouses which
supply the domestic market. Largely as a result of these charges there is
an extensive illegal slaughter of cattle for local consumption.
4.o4      The present market system has several deterrents to more prof it-
able livestock production. They include:
(i) on-ranch purchases of live animals by middlemen on an
estimated carcass weight basis;
(ii) lack of a grading system that vould enable price differ-
entials for better quality cattle;
(iii) inadequate municipal slaughtering facilities; and
(iv)  poor communications to outlying areas, resulting ín
price variations up to 20%.
This situation has been improved to some extent by the privately owned export
meat packing plants.  They publish price listinga for purchase of slaughter
cattle, have adequate slaughter facilities, provide some credit for steer
fattening, and offer higher prices per pound for heavier animals.
Prices
4.05      An increase of approximately 58% in export prices from 1960 to
1968 stimulated an expansion of boneless meat exporta. (FOB prices in Cen-
tral American countries increased from US$0.68/kg to US$1.08/kg during this
period). In Honduras, the price increase vas largely pasead on to the pro-
ducer, because more export packing plants vere built and competition for
cattle increased betveen the plants and Guatemalan cattle buyers.  Average
Uj  Public Lay 88-482 of 1964 regulates US meat imports in accordance vith
increases in domestic production.



- 16 -
national producer prices went up from about L100 (US$50) to L150 (US$75) per
animal or US$0.14 to present prices of US$0.22 per kg liveveight.  The re-
action from producers has been to increase the rate of extract ion from the
national herd but with little, if any, improvement in herd productivity. It
is unlikely that a downward trend in prices would occur in the future as the
application of import quotas by US would not lead to surplus beef production
under present and projected supply conditions (para 4.02).  Under the Project,
producer prices are estimated to be the same as present prices paid for better
quality cattle and vould range from L170 (Us$85) to L200 (US$100) per animal.
Producer Benefita
4. o6     Substantial increases in net annual income would be derived from
investments under the Project (Annexes 4-6, Table 4).  After 10 years, annual
net incomes prior to debt service on a 400 ha breeding/fattening ranch (Mode)
1) vould increase from about L3,000 (US$1,500) to L30,000 (US$15,000); on a
150 ha dairy-steer/fattening ranch (Model 2) from L4,000 (US$2,000) to
L15,000 (US$7,500); and on a 1,500 ha breeding ranch (Model 3) from L14,000
(US$T7000) to L52,000 (US$26,000). After the same time, incrementol increases
in the capital value of the herd would be 118%, 66% and 61% respectively.
The financial rates of return on the ineremental investments under the Proj-
ect, giving livestock producers a strong incentive to participate in the
program, would range from about 16% to 21% for these types of ranches (Annex
15).
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The Project vould asesist Honduras in increasing its supply of beef
and milk for domestic consumption and beef for export. After full develop-
ment, incremental production w<ould amount to 10,000 tons of beef (live-weight)
and 1.4 idiLíon litera of milk annually with a total value of about L4.8 mil-
lion (US$2.4 million) at current domestic prices to the producer. The incre-
mental beef produced vould represent 15% of the present total annual beef
production. About 70% of the beef would be exported, most of it being better
quality; e.dditional milk production would serve as a substitute for milk
powder importa. The combined gross increase in foreign exchange earning
(beef) and savíngs (milk powder) would average approximately US$1.7 million
ennually.
5.02      The Project's benefits to the economr have been set out in Annex
16. To this effect, the cost of technical services from project staff and
participating banks have been added to costs, and the import substitution
effect of increased milk production has been valued at world market prices.
Increased goverument revenues from the Project such as slaughter taxes and
duties levied on imported capital goods have been included in the benefits
to the economy. On this basis the rate of return to the econonr would be
about 18%. In addition, several non-quantifiable benefits would be realized:
the Project would introduce improved animal husbandry production techniques,
would provide technical services of a type that has been virtually unknown
in Honduras and the commercial banks would be involved for the first time



- 17 -
in extending long-term credit to agriculture; also the Project vould help to
reduce the country's dependence on banana exports which is a primary goal of
Government policy towarda agrículture.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During Credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the
following principal points:
(a) The Government would be the Borrower and the Central Bank of
Honduras vould be the Administering Agency. Coordination and
supervision of the Project would be vested in a Project Com-
mission (para 3.20); technical services would be provided by
a Project Director and qualified livestock technicians (para
3.21);
(b)  Government vould on-lend to the Central Bank the Credit funda
used for on-ranch development at 4.5% interest per annum
(para 3.24); Central Bank would re-lend these funds to partí-
cipating banks at 5% interest on terms similar to those grant-
ed by the banks to ranchers (para 3.25).
6.02      The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$2.6 million.  The
Republic of Honduras vould assume the foreign exchange cost.
December 16, 1969






ANiJTX 1
HONDURAS
LIV'STOCK DEVELOPM-7W  PROJXT
Composition of Exports
1960               1965                1966               1967         1968  1/
% of               % of                 Of Oof » O
L million  Total  L million  Total  L million  Total  L million  Total  L million
Total Exports                1214.8     100     252.0      100      288.3      100     311.9      100      368.3
Agriculture and Live-
stock Products           99.4       80      198.1       79     227.9       79      226.3       75
Forest Products             16.4      13       20.2        8       21.1        7      24.3        6
All other commodities        9.0        7      33.7       13       39.3       14      61.3       17
Agriculture and Live-
stock Products                99.4      60      198.1       79      227.9       79     226.3       75
Bananas                     56.2      45      105.9       42      lh4.6       50     156.9       50      170.8
Coffee                      23.6      19       44.3       18       39.7      14       27.9       11       42.1
Live Cattle and Beef        b.9        4        9.6        4      11.0         4      15.2        5
Cotton                       5.2       h       12.3        5       11.6        4      10.4        3        7.2
Corn                         1.9        2      11.3        4        5.9        2       3,8        1
Hogs and Porkmeat            1.7       1        1.6        1        2.1        1       1.8        1
Other Agriculture and
Livestock Products         5.9       5       13.1        5       13.0        h      10.3        4
1/ Only few data for 1968 available.
Source:  Ministry of Finance and Econormic Affairs, Honduras:  "Anuario Estadistico de Comercio
ibterior."
December 16, 1969






CD                                 HONDURAS: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(D                                                            ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES
\o
SUB-SECRETARY
DIRECTOR GENERAL                        DIRECTOR GENERAL                  DIRECTOR GENERAL            DIRECTOR GENERAL
AND LIVESTOCK                         OF MECHANIZATION                       OF MINES                  O    FORESTRY
ANDC                    AND HYDROCARBONS              AND FISHERIES
PLANT  ANIMAL            MAINTENANCE                     OTHER ASSOCIATED INSTITUTIONS
HEALTH            ~~~HEALTH                  OF EQUIPMENT                    CNRLBN
NATIONAL DEVELOPME-- BANK
NATIONAL AGRARIAN INSTITUTE
PLANT        _ _          SOILS                     ZONES OF                       DEPARTMENT OF COOFERATIVES DEVELOPMENT
DEVELOPMENT                                          MECHANIZATION                    NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF HONDURAS
PAN AMERICAN AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL
US-AID PROGRAM
WAROLE           ~~~ARTIFICIAL                                               INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
CONtROL        _ _      INSEMINATION                                                FO.O ANO AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION (UN)
UNDP
ASSOCIATION OF FARMERS AND STOCKRAISERS
PRODUCTION                                                               PRIVATE BANKS
AND DISTRIBUTION
OF FOOD-GRAINS
EXTENSION SERVICES
(DESARRURAL )
z
z
IBRD-4337  x






ANNEX 3
HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMEIT PROJECT
The Banking System
A. Introduction
1.   Hondwran banks, both private and governnent, play an important role
in providing credit to the agricultural industry. Of total credit,
approximately 30% go96   to agriculture, compared with 20% for induistry,
17% each for housing and commerce, 6% each for consurmption and transport,
and 3% for services (Table l).  Traditionally, 65-701 of the agricultural
credit has been provided by the Governnent's National Development Bank
and the other 30-35% by the private commercial banks. This proportion
shifted somiewhat in 1968 when a higher percentage was provided by the
private banks (37%) and a private finance corporation (h451) (Table 2).
B. Central Bank
2.   The Central Bank of Honduras heads the banking system.  It is an
autonomous governmental institution established by National Congress in
February 1950. Its headquarters are in Tegucigalpa; it has a branch
office in San Pedro Sula and eight agencies country-wide.
Organization of the Board of Directors
3.   Monetary, credit and exchange policies as well as administrative
and operational policies are entrusted to the Board of Directors. The
Board is composed of five members, as follows:
The President of the Bank, principal member of the Board,
appointed by the President of the Republic;
The Minister of the Economic Affairs and Finance, an ex-officio
member;
Representative frorn the National Development Bank;
Representative from the private commercial banks;
Representative from the private sector of the econony.
Each member has an alternative representatíve.
Administration and Management
b.   Among other duties, the President of the Bank, who holds tenure of
office for a 7-year term which may be extended (current President has
been in office 18 years), proposes to the Board of Directors the measures
and resolutions which, according to his judgment, are needed for the
execution of the monetary, credit and exchange policy of the institution;
informs the Board of issues most relevant for the operation of the Bank;
performs the legal representation, together with or apart from the
Management; and directs the relations of the Bank and Board wjith public
authorities, with the banking system and wjith international organizations
for which the Central Bank has been assigned to represent Government.






ANNa 3
Page2
5.   The Manager of the Bank is in charge of its direct administration
and day-to-day operations. He is appoínted by the Boarcd, being
responsible to it as well as the President. He is assisted by an
assistant manager and several department managers v¡ho, upon his
recommendation, are appointed by the Board (see organization chart).
6.   An Internal Áundtr, appointed by the Board, is responsible for the
inspection &,d conÚinituom audit of the accounts of the Bank.  An  bcternal
Auditor, appointed by the President of the Republic and administratively
responsible to Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance, annually audits
the departmenta of the Bank for legal and financial compliance with the
Banking laws and regulations. The Superintendent of Banks, appointed to
the Board and administratively responsible to the i4anager of the Bank,
is responsbile for examining private banks, finance companies and
government banks.
Functions
7.   Characteristically, the Central Banks acts as bankeri  fiscal
agent and economic and financial adviser to Government, to its ministries
and departments, and to official and semi-official entities. Primarily,
its purpose is to promote monetary, credit and exchange conditions
favorable to the developnent of the national economy.
0.  The Central Bank may grant advances and rediscount at 100% credit
instruuments not exceeding 360 days for financing the initial stages of
agricultural, stock raising and industrial production at 4% interest
per annum and other types of paper at 5%. It establishes the interest
rate structure for bank deposits and loans as well as the reserve
requirements against deposits.  The current interest rates for saviigs
and time deposits are   7.OcI. reserve requirements are 25% in cash plus
10% in bonda-or cash for.demañd deposits (chécking) and 5% in cash plus
10% in bonds or cash for time deposita.. The Bank can also establish
limits  on advances and rediscounts to private banks.
9.   The Central Bank can borrow from international lending institutions,
It would act as fiscal agent for Government and as Administering Agency
for the proposed Project.
Financial Operations
10. The Central Bank allocates its net earning to its capital and to
a Securities Fund. None of its earnings, therefore, flow into the
National Income and Expenditure Budget. Its summbry financial
aecount f<P  1968 is sho-m in Tible 3.






AZNIEX 3
Page 3
C. Private Commercial Banks
U. The Honduran econony is cormpetitively serviced by nine private
commercial banks. Ranked in size according to total resources, they aro:
(i)       Banco Atlantida, an affiliate of Chase Manhattan Bank;
(ii)      Banco de Honduras, an affiliáte of First National City Bank;
(iii)     Banco de El Ahorro Hondureno;
(iv)      Banco de Londres y Montreal;
(v)       Bank of America;
(vi)      Banco c'!Capitalizador Hondurena (BAfNCAHBA)
(vii)     Banco de Los Trabajadores;
(viii)    Banco de Comercio;  and
(ix)      Banco de Occidente.
Banco Atlantida holds about 45% of total resources and .deposits in the
conmercial banking system. See Table 4 for consolidated balance sheeta
of the six principal private commercial banks.  The banks generally are
becoming increasingly aware of the need to broaden their agricultural
credit services, particularly in the field of medium to long-term credit
for agricultural development. The investnent of capital and management,
in some of the banks, from external sources (mainly the United States) is
stimulating changes in loan policies from traditional short-term lending,
largely for trade and commercial purposes, to more emphasis on development
lending. Such policies fit into an appropriate credit mechanism suitable
for carrying out the Lending Program of the Project. The banking system
covers the entire country with an extensive network of main offices,
branches and agencies which adequately would service the Project area.
The first five banks listed aboye expressed an interest in the Project, and
it is anticipated that three or four of them would participate. The others
(except Banco de Occidente which is connected with Banco de Ahorro
Hondurena) are small banks providing services outside of agriculture.
D. Specialized Institutions
12. Four institutions fall within this category, namely:
(i)       Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank);
(ii)      Financiera Hondurena;
(iii)     Banco Municipal Autonomo;  and
(iv)      Insituto Nacional de la Vivienda (ILVA).
Only Financiera Hondurena would participate in the Project.  However,
National Development Bank would be a member of the Project Commission
since it is substantially involved in providing agricultural credit, some
of which is for development. The consolidated balance sheets for these
two institutions are also shown in Table 4.
National Development Bank (NDB)
13. NDB was established in 1950 as an autonoraous governmental agency. Its
fundamental purpose is to promoto -development and production in the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors. It has an extensive country-wide system of 20
branch and agency offices. NDB provides 60-65% of total institutional
credit f>r agriculture and considering this importance, the mission reviewed
its organization, policies, lending experience and financial operations.






ANNEZ 3
14. The operations of NDB cover several funetions outside of its credit
and banking activities. It is concerned with the operation of smail
agricultural supply stores;  operates the Government's floor price
progran for purchase of corn, rice, beans and sorghum together with 17
storage and marketing facilities;  operates the country's principal
milk pasteurization plant at San Pedro Sula and a cotton gin;  is
involved in tobacco operations and administers the National Coffee Fund.
By-and-large, these operations have not been profitable. The most
profitable operations have been the San Pedro milk pasteurization plant
and the Coffee Fund. It ia likely that the income from these activities
will be sharply reduced in the future since there is a plan for NDB
to relinquish its interest in the milk plant to private shareholders.
As for the Coffee Fund, about 70-80% of the proceeds are to be used
in the future for a program of agricultural diversification.
15. NDB's credit operations have been weak. It has a serious record
of past-due accounta.  Of its total agricultural loan portfolio
(December 31, 1968) 46% of L42.7 million (US$21.3 million) was either
past-due, temporarily extended, or had been re-written.  Reserves
agaínst doubtful accounts and probable losses were not set-up until
1968, following a special audit review by the Superintendent of Banks
of all loans with respect to age of delinquency, probability of re-
paynment, and collateral value of security. These reserves are now
about 5% of gross loan portfolio but this still n'- bo inicdequate
especially in view of the substantial amount of delinquencies and weak
collection policies.
16. NDB is well capitalized, having about L22 million (US$11 million)
in paid-in capital. This has come principally as interest free grants
from Governnent.  In 1968, LL million (US$2 million) was received and
an equal amount is expected in 1969. Also it has received funds from
US-AID (US$2.0 million) for housing, about US$8.0 million is expected
out of a ne* loan anicuntiíig to US$9.5 mil lion and three
loans have been grantad by the Inter-American9Davel.opment Bank aggrega-
ting US$15.5 million. It is expected that the balance of the third IDB
loan will be disbursed by the end of 1969.
17. The financial operations of NDB reflect continuous annual losses.
Losses during 1965-1968 ranged from about L370,000 (US$185,000) to
Ll million (US$0.5 million) annually. The highest loss was experienced
in 1968 after provision was made for more adequate reserves against
doubtful accounts. (Under proper accounting practices such reserves
should be distributed over previous years rather than charging the full
amount against one year's operationsa) Annual losses have caused NDB
to live on about one-half of the capital contributed by the Government,
which from 1965-1968 totaled L13.2 million (US$6.1 million).
18. NDB would not participate in the Project as one of the partici-
pating banks.  It has several on-going and prospective credit projects,
financed in part by IDB and US-AID.  Although some improvement in its
operations is underway, its credit and financial operations are not
considered to be satisfactory.
December 16, 1969






HONDURAS                                                A!1ÁŽZX '
'farle 1
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMETIT PROJECT
Loan Portfolio by Sector of the Banking _ystem, November 30, 1968
(Lemlpiras million)
Commercial Banks    Development Banks 1/   Finance Companies          Entire Banking System
Sector                   Anount    % of Total    ount   % of Total    Amount    % of Total    Amount   % of Total
Agriculture                    14.3        9           25.2        45          0.3           1          39.8        17
Livestock                       7.5         5          17.3        31          2.4          10           27.2       12
Hogs and poultry                1.4        1            0.5         1           - 2/         -            1.9        1
ish                            o0.4        -             - 2/      -            2/  /        _           °.4  
Forestry                        2.9        2             -                      -           _             2.9        1
Subtotal               26.5       17           43.0       77           2.7         11           72.2        31
Mining                          0.5         -           0.2         -           -            -            0.7         -
Industry                       26.4       18            6.4        12         12.2          53           45.0       20
Services                        6.5        4            0.4        1           0.9           4            7.8         3
Transport                      U.h          8            _ 2/       -          1.0           4           12.4         5
Housing                        31.1       21            3.5         6          3.8          17           38.4       17
Conmercial                     36.h        24           1.1         2          1.5           7           39.0       17
Consumption                    12.0         8           1,2         2          1,0           4           14.2         7
Total                 150.8      L00           55.8      100          23.1         100          229.7      100
1/  Banco Nacional de Fomento (95%) and Banco Municipal Autonomo (5%).
2/ Less than 100,000 Lempiras.
Source: Banco Central Statistical Bulletin, November 1968.
December 16, 1969






ANNa( 3
Table 2
HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Amount and Per Cent of Agricultural Credit by Kind of Lending Institution
(Lenpiras million)
1964             1965              1966             1967              1968
% of             % of            . % of             % of              %of
Lending Institution      Amount   Total   Amount   Total   Amount   Total   Amount   Total   Amount   Total
Private Commercial Banks     9.2       30     12.3      30     16.9       33     18.8      31      26.6      37
Development Banks           20.7       69     27.2      67     32.4       64     40.0      67      43.0      59
Finance Companies            0.3        1      1.1       3      1.5        3      1.2        2      2.7       4
Total    30.2    100      4o.6      100     50.8     100      60.0     100     72.3      100
Source: Banco Central
December 16, 1969






ANIMX 3
Table 3
HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DIVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Financial Account, Central Bank 1968
(Lempiras million)
ASSETS                                    LIABILITIES
International Reserves             120.2   Foreign                            45.9
Notes in Circulation              60.4
Domestic Assets                             Coins in Circulation                7.1
Central Government Deposits       15.8
Public Sector Credit:                     Local Government Deposits          0.1
Central Government               5.1   Autonomous Institutions Deposits  6.0
Local Government                 0.3   Conimercial Banks                  17.6
Autonomous Institutions          3.9   National Development Bank           0.4
Autonomous Mun. Bank               0.3
Banking Sector Credit:                    Other Institutions                 o.6
Commercial Banks                 9.8   Monetary Deposits                   0.3
National Development Bank       11.5   Other Deposits                      0.5
Other Financial Institutions    1.5   Miscellaneous                        1.2
Total              .5i6.
Private Sector Securities          0.1
CAPITAL AI\D RESMRVES             15.2
Miscellaneous                     19.0
Total                         171.h         Total                       171.h
Source: Central Bank.
December 16, 1969






HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sneet of Principal danking InstItations
.Decemer 3D, lqac!
a                                                                                           n(Lempiras million                                                      Private
Finance
Private Commercial 3anks                                                Company             National
de               El Ahorro        Londres y            Bank of                               Financiera           Development
9'                ASS«'rS                        Atlantida         Honduras            _ondureno         Montreal            America            Bancahsa            Hondurena            Bank(Gov't)
Current
Cash                                    5.0                1.3                  1.5              1.1                 0.7                0.4                  -                  1.B
Deposits - Central Bank                 5.3                i.5                  2.(              1.I                 1.3                0.9                 0.1                 2.4
Government Secirities                   7.9                 1.6                 2.6              2.14                 0.5               1.2                 0.2                 1.0
Other Deposits & Cheo:es                2.1                0.7                  0.6              1.2                  0.3               0.2                 0.4                 0.4
Sabtotal                             21¡                 57                                                         3.2               2.7                 0.7
Investments
Loans and Discounts                    65.2               20.2                 21.7             10.3                 12.2              12.9                18.4                54.2
Other Investments and Bonds             2.3                0.4                   -                -                   0.2               0.1                 0.3                 7.4
Subtotal                             67.5               20.                 .21               10.3                12                 13.0                  7                 6i.6
Real Estate and Equipment                 8.3                 2.4                 0.8              1.0                  o.6               1.3                  1.3                6.5
Other                                     3.6                 1.6                 0.5              2.2                  1.5               0.5                  o.B               17.4
Total                               103.7,               30.1                3                19.9                17.7               17.5                                    91.1
LIABILITIES
Deposits
Demand                                  41.6               15.4                 9.3              8.1                 10.0               2.4                  1.2               10.7
Time                                   41.7                6.2                 16.9              7.6                  4.2               4.2                  -                  5.4
Special Savings                                                                                                                         6.2
Subtotal                              3                  2ó.2 15.7                                                114.2                                    1.2       161
Other Liabilities
Central Bank                            3.7                  -                   -                                     -                 -                   1.5               11.2
Accounts Payable                        o.6                 0.2                 0.3               -                   0.1               0.1                  0.1
Long-Term Foreign Loans                                      -                   -                -                    -                 -                  13.0               26.0
Miscellaneous                           2.3                 2.3                 2.2              0.1                  0.3               3.4                  1.1                6.4
Suototal                              óó                                                                            0 5  0.1            -                 15.7
Total Liabilities                       924.1                                    37É.7                     I gU                        16.3        16         .9       59.7
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Capital - paid-up                       14.0                3.0                 0.4              3.5                  3.0               0.8                  4.0               22.8
Legal Reserves                          6.8                 2.4                 0.9              0.1                   -                0.1                  0.4
Contingency Reserves                    3.0                 o.6                 0.4                                   0.1               0.3                  0.2                8.6
Sa0total                             ___7_               __         T17                          1                  3.1               1.2                 ___               -317
Total Liabilities, Capital
and Reserves                        103.7               30.1                 30.4             19.9                 17.7              17.5                 21.5               91.9
Soirce: Central dank






HONIJUaA
LIVESTOCX DEVEL0O---T PROJECT
Model 1. - Development of Beef Breeding/FattEning Ranch, 400 Ha
On-Ranch Investnent Cost Projections
Average Units     Unít  Cost    Average Ccet                               Inmbtments by Yeare                                Total Cost for 75 Ranchos
,grRach                        per Ranch                   123                                                     _       Lenptra       Dol-lar EqMliv.
Investment Category                                   (L)             (L)           Units(No.)    Cost (L)    Inits(No.)   Cocut (L)    Unita    Cost (  (L         Wo T      (US* 000)
Pasture Establishbwt
New Formation (Ha)                         10               150           1,500              10         1,500                  -           -               -           112.5           56.25
Renovation    (Ha)                        200                60          12,000             100         6,ooo          50          3,000         50      3,000          900.0         450.o
Fences
New           (Fm)                          5               500            2,500              5         2,500           -             -          -         -            167.5          93.75
Renl           (                           14                150           2,100             lo          1,500          2             300         2         300         157.5           78.75
Watering Facilities
Wells             (No.)                     1             3,000            3,000              1         3,0oo           -            -           -         -            225.0         112.5
Troughs           (No.)                     5               100             500               3           300           1            100          1        100           37.5          18.75
Engines and Pumps (No.)                     1             2,000           2,000               1         2,000           -            -          -          -           150.0           75.o
Ranch Structures
Corrals and chutes        (No.)             .5            1,800              900               .5         900           -            _           _         _             67.5          33.75
Dips/Spray Races          (No.)              .5           1,500             750                .5         750           -            _           _         -             56.25         28.13
Silos (trench or bunker)  (No.)             2               500           1,Ooo               _            -            _            _            2      1,000           75.o          37.5
Machinery and Equipment
Traetors          (No.)                      .5           7,000            3,500              -            -            -            -             .5    3,500          262.5         131.25
Forage Equipment  (No.)                      .5           6,000            3,000              -            -            -                          .5    3,000          225.0         112.5
lreeding Stock
Heirers           (No.)                    70                300          21,000              50        15,000         20           6,ooo        _          -         1,575.0          787.5
Bulls             (No.)                     9             1,500           13,500              6          g,ooo          2           3,000         1      1,500        1,012.5          506.25
Ssbtotal                             -               -      1        2,400      _0                                         12,400                   W                        2521.9
Contingencies                               -               -             6,750                         4,250                      1,250                 1,250         506.2          253.1
T O T A L                                   -               _             7Li,000                       46,700                    13,650                13,650        5,5500.        2,775.0
IE!






H06DtlAS
LIVESIOCK DEVlWllT PROJECT
Yodel 1. - Deovlltent of BErding/Fattenir4 Ranch, 400 Ha
Herd Devuloment ProJeotione
---------- End of Ranoh Year---------------------------------
Before
Category                      Deelopaent           1         2        3         4         5         6         7         8         9      10-20
Herd Cempotition (No.)
Breeding Cows                               140              199       219      220       224      240        260       260       260       260      260
Bulla                                          6               8         9         9         9      10         10        10        10        10        10
Calves                                       78               B4      124       142       154      168        1BO       194      194       194       194
Heifers - 8-24 montha                         36              37        40       60        69       75         82        88        95        95        95
Heifera - 24-36                               34              35        36        39       58       67         73        80        86        93        93
Steera  - 8-24                               36               37        40       60        69       75         82        88        95        95        95
Steers  - 24-36                              34               35        36       39        58       67         73        80        86        93       93
Steers  - Over 36 months                     33               33        34       35        38       -          -         -         -        -         -
Total Animala                               397              468      538       604       679      702        760       800       826      840       840o
Total Animal Units (AUla)                   319              384       414      462       525      534        580       606       632       646      646
Purehased Steers                             -                96      186       218       195      266        220       194       168      154       154
Total AU'a                                  319             1480      600       680       720      800        800       800       800      800       800
Mortality (No.)
Breeding Cows                                7                 6         9        7         7        4          5         5         5        5          5
Calves After Weaning                         4                 4         4         4        4        4          4         4         4         4         4
Heifers - 8-24 months                        2                 1         1        1         2        2          2         2         2         2        2
leífers -.24-36                              2                 2         2        1         1        1          1         1         2         2        2          2
Steers  - 8-24l                              2                 1        1         1         2        2          2         2         2         2        2          2
Steers - 24-36                               2                 1        1         1         1        -          -         1        2         2         2
St.eers  - Over 36 months                    1                 1        1         1         1        -          -         -         -        -         -
Purchased Steers (2)                         -                 2        4         4         4        6          5         4        14        4         4
Total                                        20              18        23        20        22       19        19        19        21        21        21
Sales (No.)
Cull Cows                                    17               17       24        27        27       27         30        30        30       30        30
Cull Bul4s                                   -                                              -                   1         -         1         -        1
Heifers - 24-36 months                       -                 -         -        -         -       10         11        37       143       49        56
Steers - 24-36                               -                 -         -        -         -       58         67        72        79       84        91
Steers - Over 36                             32               32        32       33        34       38          -         -         -         -         -
Subtotal                                49              53        57        61        61     133        109       139       152       163       178
Psrchased Steers                             -                94      182       214       191      260        215      190       1614      150       150
Total                                         49             147       239      275       252      393        324       329       316       313      328
Purchases (No.)
Breeding Females                             -                50       20
BuJís                                         1                6         2        1         -        2          1         -         1         -         1
Feeder Steers                                 -               96       186       218       195     266        220       194       168       154       154
Total                                        -               152      208       219       195      267        221       194      169       154       155        114
Production Data
Mortality (Adult) -%                          5                4                   3         3       2          2         2         2         2
Effective Calvíng Rate -                    55                60        61       65        70       75         75        75        75        75        75         1
c Carrying Capacity - AU/ha                     1                1.2       1.5       1.7       1.8     2.0         2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0       2.C
Area of Pastures - Ha                      390               400       400      400       400      400        400       400       400       400      400
Total Carrying CaDacity - AU'S             390               480       600      680       720      800        800       800       800      800       800
Actual Herd Nos. - AU's                    319               384       414      462       525      534        580       606       632       646      646
access Capacity for F. Steers - No.         71                96      186       218       195      266        220      194       168       154       1514                         fi
Output Rate - %                             12.3              11.3      10.6     10.1        9.0    18.9       14.3      17.1      18.4     19.4       21.2






HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELWRfiNT PRJECT
Nodel 1. - Development of Breeding/Fattening Ranch, 400 Ha
Pr jection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Unit Value of Cattle         Before      -------------------------------------------- Ranch Year---- -- --
Category                Tears 0-5  Tears -10         Develcpment         1          2         3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10-20
(L)  Y     L)           NoN.     L      No.   (L) No.  (L)  No. (L) No.  (L) No.  ML) No.  (L) No.  (L) No.  (L) No.  (L) No.   (L)
Sales
Cull Cows                          150         170          17     2,550    17   2,550  24 3,600   27 4,050  27  4,050  27  4,050  30  5,100  30 5,100  30  5,100  30  5,100  30  5,100
Cull Bulls                         280         350                           4   1,120   1   280    1   280    -                     1   350               1    350              1    350
Surplus Heifera                    280         280                                                                       10  2,800  11 3,080  37 10,360  43 12,040  49 13,720  56 15,680
Steera - 24-36 montha              190         230                                                                       58 11,020  67 15,410  72 16,560  78 17,940  84 19,320  91 20,930
Steers - 36-48 months              210                      32     6,720    32   6,720  32  6,720   33 6,930  34  7,140  38  7,980
Feeder Steers                      200         200                          94  18,800 182 36,400  214 42,800 191 38,200 260 52,000 215 43,000 190 38,000 164 32,800 150 30,000 150 30,000
Subtotal                     -           -                  9,270        29,190     47,000      54,o60    49,390    77,850      66,940    70,020      68,230     68,140     72,06O
Milk Sales ,/                       96                      45     4,300   45   4,300  45 4,300   45 4,300  45  4,300  45 4,300
Total Sales                                                       13,570        33,490     51,300     58,360     53,690     82,150     66,940     70,020     68,230     68,140     72,060
Operating Expenses (L)
Salt and Minerals 3/                                                 900         1,400     1,800       2,100      2,150      2,300      2,400      2,400      2,400      2,400      2,400
Animal Health    h1                                                1,350         2,200      2,950      3,250      3,300      3,350      3,800      3,800      3,800      3,800      3,800
Pasture Maintenance 5/                                             1,900         3,000     3,500       3,500      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000
Fence & Water Maintenance 6/                                         300           400       400         400        400        400        500        700        800      1,000      1,000
Building Maintenance 7/                                              200           400        400        400        400        400        500        500        500        500        500
Wages Foreman        8/                                            1,500         2,250      2,500       2,700      2,700     2,700      2,700      2,750      2,750      2,750      2,750
Wages Stockmen     92                                              2,400         4,000      4,000       4,900      5,000     5,000      3,600      3,600      3,300      j,300      3,300
Fuel, Oil & Lubricants                                               400           800       800         800        800        800        800        800        800        800        800
Machinery Maintenance 10/                                            250           600       600         700        800        800        800        800        800        800        800
BU11 Replacement 11/                                                 800            -                                        1,000      1,000         -       1,000                 1,000
Miscellaneou=                                                        500           800        900        950        900        950        800        800        700        850        850
Subtotal                                                   10,500        15,850    17,850      19,700     20,450    21,700      20,900    20,150      20,850     20,200     21,200
Purchase of Feeder Steers                                            -          12,500    24,200      28,300     25,400    314,600     28,600     25,200     21,800     20,000     20,000
Total Expenses                                                    10,500        28,350     42,050     48,o0o     45,850     56,300     49,500     45,350     42,650     40,200     41,200
Net Operating Inccme                                               3,070         5,140      9,250      10,360     7,840    25,850      17,440    24,670      25,580     27,940     30,860
1,  Due to imorovement in weight and quality as a result of upgrading.                               7/ Rising to 5% of L10,000. -
2/ lilk returna based on milkdng 45 cows, each cou producing 600 litres per year                    8/ Above average foreman required.
atL 0.16 per litre (i.e. L 96 per cow per year).                                                 9/ Five stocimen while milking-  three thereafter.
1/ L3 per AU including feeder steera.                                                               10/ 10% of estisated value, or L 8,000.
-/ L4.5 per AU including feeder steera plus reterinary.
ia  LI0 per ha.                                                                                      Nonduran bred bulls at L 1,000 per head.
6/ Rising to 4% of L25,000.



eHONDURA 5
LIV'bS*SC  DEV7LC0P2EN  PROJEC(T
Model 1. - Developraent of Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch, 4G&  Ha
Fina;.cial Projection
ço                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(L'000)
Before          -----------------------------------------  Ranch Year-       -       -------
Development           1          2           3          4           5           6          7           m           9         10       U-20
1.   Cash Infloir
Total Sales                          13.6             33-5        51.3       58.4         53.7      62.2        66.9        70.0       68.2        68.1        72.1       72.1
Cormercial Bank Loan                                  37.4       10.9        10.9
Total                           13.6             70.9       62.2        69.3         53.7      82.2        66.9       70.0        68.2        68.1       72.1        72.1
2.   Cash Outflow
Ranchers' Investment Contribution    -                 9.3         2.7        2-7
Investment of Loan Funds              -               3 7. L     10.9        10. 9
Operating ?apenses                   10.5             23.1        42.1       48.o         45.9      56.3        49.5        45.4       42.7        40.2        41.2       41.2
Total                           10.5             7 5.1      55.7        61.6        h5.9       56.3        49.5      145.4        42.7       40.2        41.2        41.2
3.   Cash Balance (1-2)                       3.1            (4.2)        6.5         7.7         7.8       25.9       17.4        24.6        25.5       27.9        30.9       30.9
4.   Debt Service
Interest on Bank Loan                                  3.4        14.3        5.3          5.3        5.3        4.8         4.2        3.2         2.1         1.0         -
lnterest on Working Capital                            1.3         2.4        2.8          2.5       3.5         2.9        2.5         2.2         2.0        2.0         2.0
Loan Amortization                                       -           -          -            -        6.o         6.o       12.0        12.0        12.0        11.?         -
5.   Cash Balance after Debt Service
(3-4)                                 3.1             (8.9)       ( .2)        .4)          -       11.1         3.7        5.9         8.1        11.8       16.7        28.9
6.   Annual Incr utal Caoh Balonce 1/                        (12.0)      (3.3)       (3.5)        (3.1)      8.0          .6        2.8         5.-         8.7       13.6        25.8
7.   Annual ILcrmeantal Herd Value  2/                        17.1        9.4         6.9        10.9        9.6        17.4        5.4         4.1         2.4        -
8.   Total Annual Incremental Balance                          5.1        6.1         3.4         7.8       17.6       18.0         8.2         9.1       11.1        13.6       25.8
(6 + 7)
1/ As coimared with ranchers' net cash pcsition before development.
2/ As compared with before development herd value of L 70,3'X).   Also reflects rising value of 'ottle of abou;  0% from years 1-5 to years 6-20.



e                                                                                                  HONDIJRAS
o
LIVEST'C: DEVELOPMEN1T .POJECT
Nodel 2. - Development of Dairy-Steer/Fattening Ranch, 150 Ha
On-Ranch Investment Cost Projections
'o
Average Unita     tnit      Average Cost                                    Invemtente by Year                                        Total Cost for 50 ¡nches
Investment Category                per Ranch        Cost      per Ranch                    1                              2                             3                 1  ir    Doll         v
(No.)    (I)                              Units (No.)    Cost (L)       tJnits (No.)    Cost (L)      Ulits (No.)    Cost (L)                r     1    .
Pasture &c Forage Feed
Establishment
Pasture R%ovation (Ha)             50            70        3,500               25           1,750            25            1,750            -              -          175.0         87.5
Forage Feed  (Ha)                  25           100        2,500               10            1,000           10            1,00X             5            500         125.0         62.5
Fences
New  (Km)                           4           500         2,000               2            1,000            1              500             1            500          100.0        50.0
Renewal (Km)                       10            150        1,500                4             600             4             600             2             300          75.0         37.5
Watering Facilities
Wells,Equipped                      1         3,600         3,600               1            3,6(X)                                                                    180.0        90.0
Troughs and Piping                              250        1,000                2              500            2              500                                        50.0        25.O
Dairy (incl. tak1                   1           500           500                                                            500                                        25.0        12.5
Ranch Structures
Dairy Shed Improvement              1           500           500                                                            500                                        25.0        12.5
Workers' Hauses                     1           500           500                              500                                                                      25.0        12.5
Yards, Cattle Facilities             .66      1,500         1,000                              500                           500                                        50.0        25.0
Equipment
Tick Control Spray Pump              .5         800           &00                              400                                                                      20.0        10.0
(Mobile)
Cattle
Breeding Bulls                      3         1,000         3,000               2            2,000            1            1,000                                       150.0        75.0
Heifera                            10           250         2.500               8            2,000            2              500                                       1-25.C       62.5
Subtotal                     -             *       22,500                -          13,890             -            7,350            -           1,300       1,125.0        562.5
Contingencies               -            -          2,500                -           1,650             -              650                          2 200       125.0         62.5
TOTAL                       _            _         25,000                           15,500                          6,000                        1,500       1,250.0        625.0



HONDURAS
LIVESSOCK DEVEWPNMNT PROJECT
Model 2. - Develo pment of Dairy-Steer Fattening Ranch, 150  a
Herd Development Projections
Before             --------------------------------------- Ehd of Ranch Year-              - -        --- -         --
Development           1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9        10-20
Herd Carposition (No.)
Breeding Cows                                     70                80          85          87         89          90          90          90          90          9C           90
Bulls                                              4                 4           4          1            4          1            4           4           4           4            4
Calves                                            32                32         40          44          48          53          59          59          59          59           59
Heifers - 8-24 months                             15                15          15         19          21          23          25          28          28          28           28
Heifers - 24-36                                   14                14          14         14          18          20          22          24          27          27           27
Steers _  8-24                                    15               15          15          19          21          23          25          28          28          28           28
Steers_  24-36n                                   114                4         114         14          18          20          22          24          27          27           27
Steers over 36                                    13               13          14          14          14           7          10          11          11          11           11
Total Numbers - Dairy Nerd                  177              I77                     215         233         2140        257                           274221
Total Animnal Units - Dairy Herd            144              155         161         171         185         187         198         209         215         215          215
Piorchased Steers                            -                25          64          814         85         113         102          91          85          85           85
Total Aninal Unita (AUI's)                                   180         225          255        270         300         300         300         300         300          300
Mortality %Xe.)
Breeding Cows                                      4                 4           4           4          4            4          3           3           3           3            3
Calves                                             4                 2           2          2           2           2           3           3           3           3            3
Heifers - 8-24 mionths                             1                 1           1          1           1           1           1           1           1           1            1
Heifers - 24-36                                    1                 1           -           -           -          -           1           1           1           1            1
Steers  -8-24                                      1                 1           1          1           1           1           1           1           1           1            1
Steers  -24-36                                     1                 1           -          -           -           1           1           1           1           1            1
Steers  - Over 36 months
Porchased Steers                                   -                 1          1           3           3           3           3           3           2           2            2
Total                                        12               11           9          11          11          12          13          13          12          17           12
Sales (No.)
Steers - Over 36 sonths                           13                13         13          14          14          14           7          10          U1          U1           11
Steers - 24-36                                     -                 -           -           -           -         10            9         10          12          15           15
Cull Cows                                          7                 7           7          8           8          10          11          U1          11          U1           11
Surplus Heifera                                    -                 -           -           -           -           3          5           7           9          12           12
Cull Bulls                                                           2           1           -          1           1           1           1           1           1            1
Subtotal                                    20                22          21          22          23          38          33          39          44          50           50
Purchased Steers                                   -                24         63          81          82         110          99          88          83          83           83
Total                                        20                46         84         103         105         148         132         127         127         133          133
Purchases (No.)
Heifers                                             -                8           2           -           -           -           -          -            -           -            -
Bulls                                              1                 2           1           -          1           1           1           1           1           1             1
Steers                                             -                25         64          84          85         113         102          91          85          85           85
Total                                         1               35          67          84          86         114         103          92          86          86           86
.Production Data
Effectire Calving Rate-                            45               45          50          52         55          60          60          65          65          65            65
Mortality (Adult) - %                               5                5           4           4           3           3           3          3            3           3            3
Extraction Rate - %                               12               11          10          10          10          15          13          14          15          18           18
Total Output Rate - %                             12                11          10         10          10          14          11          11          11          14            14
Stocking Rate - AU's/Ha                            1.0               1.2         1.5        1.7         1.8         2.0         2.0          2.0        2.0         2.0           2.0
Carrying Capacity - AUs9/50 ha                   150              180         225         255         270         300         300         300         300         300          300



HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELWMNT POJECT
Model 2. - Dairy-Steer/Fattening Ranch, 150 Ha
Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Unit Value
of Cattle       efo ore  - ------------------------------------------------ Ranch Year ---------------------------------------------------------------
Category               Yearears   Developsient         1            2           3           4           5            6            7             8           9           10_20
0-5  6-lo
Sales                         T(L) (L   (No.)  (L)    (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)
Cull Cows                   160    170    7   1,120       7  1,120   7  1,120   8  1,280   8  1,280  10    1,600   11   1,870  11   1,870   11   1,870   11   1,B70   11   1,870
Cull Bulls                  250    250                    2    500   1      250      -        1     250  1       250   1      250   1     250    1     250    1      250    1     250
Surplus Heifers             220    250        -               -          -           -           _        3      660    5  1,250   7  1,750    9  2,250   12   3,000   12   3,000
Steers - 24-36 months        200    200                                                                  10    2,000    9  1,800  10   2,000   12   2,400   15   3,000   15   3,000
Steers - 36-48 months       200    200   13    2,600    13   2,600  13   2,600  l4   2,800  14   2,800  14    2,800    7  1,400  10   2,000   11   2,200   11   2,200   11   2,200
Feeder Steers               200    200                   24  4,800  63 12,600  81  16,200  82  16,400 110   22,000   99 19,800  88  17,600   83  16,600   83  16,600   83  16,600
Subtotal               -      -   20    3,720          9,020      16,570      20,280      20,730       29,310       26,370      25,470       25,570        26,970       26,920
Milk Sales 1/                130    151   70    9,100    70   9,100  80  10,400  85  11,050  87  11,310  89   11,570   90 13,590  90  13,590   90 13,590   90 13,590   90  13,590
Total Sales                            12,820         18,120      26,970      31,330      32,040       40,880       39,960      39,060       39,160        40,510       40,510
Operating Expenses (L)
Salt and Minerals  2/                             530           640         750         900         950        1,060        1,080       1,080        1,080        1,080         1,080
Animal Health      3/                             850         1,160       1,350       1,550       1,625        1,790        1,820       1,820        1,820         1,820        1,820
Pasture Maintenance 4/                            750           750         750       1,450       1,500        1,500        1,500       1,500        1,500         1,500        1,500
Maintenance, Fencing  5/
and Water                                       200           200         200         400         400          400          400         400          400           400          400
Building Maintenance  6/                          300           400         400         400         400          400          400         400          400           400          400
Wages Foreman         7/                        2,000         2,400       2,400       2,400       2,500        2,500        2,500       2,600         2,800        2,800        2,800
Wages Stookmen        8/                        3,400         3,600       3,800       4,400       4,500        4,500        4,500       4,500         5,000        5,000        5,000
Fuel Oil and Lubricants                           -             200         200         200         200          200          200         200          200           200          200
Machinery Maintenance                              50           200         200         200         300          300          300          300          300          300          300
Bull Replacement 9/                               200                                               800          800          800         800          800           800          800
Cmntingencies (acprox. 5%)                        320           475         530         500         630          550          500         500          50° 500                    5°°
Subtotal                                8,600        10,025      10,580      12,400      13,800       14,000       14,000      14,100       14,800       14,800        14,800
Purchase of Feeder Steers                         -           3,250       8,320      10,920      11,050       14,690       13,260      11,830       11,050        11,050       11,050
Total Expenses                           8,600        13,275      18,900      23,320      24,850       28,690       27,260       25,930       25,850       25,850       25,850
Net Operating Incoma                            4,220         4,845       8,070       8,010       7,190       12,190       12,700      13,130       13,310       14,660        14,660
1/ Milk sales based on production for each cow in the herd of 810 litres per annum, years 0-5, and 945 litres yeara 6-10. Price L 0.16 per litre.
2/ L 3 per head.
3/ L 4.50 per head plus veterinary services.
4/ L 10 per ha.
5/ 4% of value.
6/ 4% of value.
7/ Competent foreman necessary.
8/ Wages range 4 men at L 900 to 5 men at L 1,000 per man per year.                                                                                                                       i
9/ Figure before developanet represente diffarence between purchase and sales.



HONDURAS
3                                                                                          LIVESTO{X DEV3LOPH3T PROJECT
D
Model 2. - Development of Dairy-Steer Fattening Ranch, 150 Ha
Financial Projection
(L'OO0)
Before          ----------------------------------------- Ranch Year                                    …      -
Development          1           2          3           4          5           6          7           o          9          10         11-20
1.   Cash Inflow
Total Sales                          12.8            18.1        27.0       31.3        32.0      140.9        40.0       39.1        39.1        40.5        40.5       40.5
Commercial Bank Loan                                 12.4         6.4        1.2
Total                           12.8            30.5        33.4       32.5        32.0       40.9        40.0       39.1        39.1        40.5        40.5       40.5
2.   Cash Outflow
Rancher' s Investment Contribution                     3.1        1.6          .3
Investment of Loan Funds                             12.4         6.4        1.2
Operating Expenses                    8.6             13.3       18.9       23.3        24.8       28.7        27.3        25.9       25.9         25.9       25.9        25.9
Total                            8.6            28.8        26.9       24.8        24.8       28.7        27.3       25.9        25.9        25.9        25.9
3.   Cash Balance (1-2)                      4.2              1.7        6.5         7.7        7.2       12.2        12.7        13.2       13.2         14.6       14.6        14.6
4.  Debt Service
Interest on Bank Loan                                  1.1       1.7         1.8         1.8        1.8         1.5        1.2          .9           .6         .3          -
Interest on Working Capital                             .3         .5        1.1         1.1        1.5         1.3        1.2         1.1          1.1.       1.1        1.1
Loan Amortization                                        -         -           -          -          3.3        3.3         3.3        3.3          3.3        3.5          -
5.   Cash Balance after Debt Service
(3-4) _   _                           4.2              .3        14.0        4.8         4.3        5.6         6.6        7.5         7.9         9.4         9.Z       13.5  _
6.  Annual Incremental Cash Balance                          (3.9)      ( .2)         .6         .1         1.4        2.4         3.3        3.7          5.r         5.6        9.3
7.  Annual Incremental Herd Value   2/                        3.8        1.8         1.5        2.4          .3        6.3         1.7        1.2           -           -          -
8.  Total Annual Incremental Balance (6+7)                   ( 1)        1.6         2.1        2.5         1.7        8.7         5.0        4.9          5.4         5 .        9.3
1/ As compared to rancher's net cash position before development.
2/ As compared Y'-ith before development herd value of L 28,620.   Also reflects rising value of cattle of about 20% from years 1-5 to years 6.20.                                    1



HONDURAS
LIVESTOC! DEVELG.IT 'ROJECT
Model 3. - Development af Breeding Ranch, 1.500 Ha
On-Ranch Investment Cost Projections
Average Units     Unit Coet    Average Cxt                              luveetmenta by Years
per Rnch                         poer Ranch                                           2                                        Total Coet for10 Ranchee
Investment Category                  (No.                            (L)           Units(No.)    Cost (L)    Units(No.)    Cost (L)    Units(No.)   Cost (L)                     (UsI$ f000
Pasture Establishment
Renavation   (Ha)                          600               50           30,000           200         10,000          200        10,000         200       10,000          300.0          150.0
Fences
New          (!1l)                          20              500           10,000            10           5,000           5         2,500           5        2,500          100.0           50.0
Repair       (KM)                           25              150            3,750            10           1,500          10         1,500           5           750          37.5           18.7
Watering Facilities
Wells              (No.)                     6            3,000           18,000              3          9,000           2         6,o00           1         3,000         180.0           90.0
Storage Tanks      (No.)                     6              800            4,800             3           2,400           2         1,600           1           800          4s8.o          24.o
Drinking Troughe  (No.)                     18              150            2,700              9          1,350           6           900           3           450          27.0           13.5
Pamping Equipment  (No.)                     3            1,000            3,000              3          3,000           -           -             -           -            30.0           15.0
Farm Structures
Corrals and Chutes       (No.)                .5          3,000            1,500               .5       1,500            -           -             -          -             15.0            7.5
Dipe/Spraye              (No.)               .33          1,500              500               .3          500           -           -             -           -             5.0            2.5
Silos (trench or bunker) (No.)               5              500            2,500             2           1,000           2         1,000           1           500          25.0           12.5
Farm Machinery
Tractors                   (No.)              .5          7,000            3,500               .5        3,500           -           -             -           -            35.0           17.5
Rotary Siasher             (No.)              .75         2,00C            1,500               .75       1,500           _           _              _          _            15.0            7.5
Hay Baler                  (No.)             1            3,500            3,500              -            -             _           _             1         3,500          35.0           17.5
Porage Harvester           (Ho.)             1            2,000            2,000              1          2,000           _           -             -           _            20.0           10.0
Weighbridge                (No.)             1            1,500            1,500              -            -             -           -             1         1,500          15.0            7.5
Molasses Feeders           (No.)            20              100            2,000             10          1,000           5           500            5          500          20.0           10.0
Tick Control Spray &qitip.  (No.)            1            1,000            1,000              1          1,000                                                              10.0            5.0
Breeding Stock
Bulls   (No.)                               23              900           20,700            19          17,100           1           900           3         2,700         207.0          }94
Subtotal                            -                           1 l12,150           _         61,350           -        24,900            -       26,200       1,124.5           W.2
Contingencies                                  -              -             12 ,550             _          8,650           -         2,100            -        1,800         125.50          62.8
T O T A L                           _              -            125,000              _         70,000           -        27,000            -       28,000       1,250.00         625.0



HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DE7VHPMENT PROJECT
Model 3. - Development of Breeding Ranch, 1,500 Ha
Herd Development ProJections
Before            ''------- -- ---   Ehd of Ranch Year --------------------------------------------
Category                        Development           1           2          3           4          5           6           7          8           9        10-20
Herd Comiposition (No.)
Breeding Cows                                550              600        65o         650        650         650        650         650         650        650         650
Bulls                                         18               30         30          32         32          32         32          32          32         32          32
Calves Weaned                                302             302         360         423        455         488        488         488         488         488        488
Heifera - 8 24 montha                        146             146         146         174        205         221        238         238         238        238         238
Heifers - 24-36  n                           142              142        142         142        170         200        216         233         233        233         233
Steera  - 8-24   n                           146             146         146         174        205         221        238         238         238        238         238
Steera  - 24-36  '                           142             142         142         142        170         200        216         233         233        233         233
Total Animala                          1,446            1,508       1,616      1,737       1,887      2,012       2,078       2,112      2,112       2,112       2,112
Total Animal Ulnits (AU's)             1,144            1,206       1,256      1,314       1,432       1,524      1,590       1,624      1>624       1,621       1,624
Mortality  (No.)
cOws                                          16              18          20          20         16          16         16          16          16         16          16
Calves Weaned                                 10              10          10          12         13          13         12          12          12         12          12
Heifera - 8-24 months                          4                4          4           4          4           5           5          5           5           5          5
Heifers - 24-36  11 4                                           4          4           4          4           4           5          5           5           5          5
Steers - 8-24                                  4                4          4           4          4           5          5           5           5          5           5
Steers -  24-36 »                              2                2          2           2          2           2           3          3           3          3           3
Bulla                                          1                1          1           1          1           1           1          1           1          1           1
Total                                     41               43          45         47          44         46          47          47         47          47          47_
Sales (No.)
Cull Cows                                     60               60         60          60         60          70         70          70          70         70          70
Cull Bulls                                     2                6          -                      2           2           4          4           4          4           4
surplus Haifera - 24-36 months                62              10           8          58         62          80        109         125        142         11,2        142
Steers - 24-36 months                        140             140         140         140        140         168        197         213         231        231         231
Total                                    264              216         208        258         264         320        380         412        447         447         447
Purclases (Ho.)
Bulls                                          3              19           1           3          3           3          5           5           5          5           5
Production Data
Mortality (Adult) -                            3                3          3           3          2.5         2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5
Effective Calving Rate - %                    55              55          60          65         70          75         75          75          75         75          75
Carrying Capacity - AU/Ha                       .8              .8          .9          .9        1.0         1.1        1.1         1.l         1.1        1.1         1.1
Area of Pasture - Ha                       1,500           1,500       1,500       1,500      1,500       1,500      1,500       1,500      1,500       1,500       1,500
Total Carrying Capacity - AU's            1,200            1,200       1,350      1,350       1,500      1,650       1,650       1,650      1,650       1,650       1,650
Output Rate - %                               18              11U         16          15         14          16         18          20          21         21          21



HONDURAS
CD                                                                                           LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3. - Development of Breeding Ranch, 1,500 Ha
CD'                                                                                    ProJection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Unit Value
of Cattle 1/                                                                      Rsnch Year
Years lears       Before
Categorv                       °-5   6-20     Development         1            2           3                                      6            7            8            9          1-20
(No.) (L)     (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.i (L)   (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.)  (L)  (No.) (L)   (No.  (L)
Sales
Cull Caos                                140    150      60   8,hO0     60   8,400  60   8,400  60   8,400  60   8,400   70    9,800  70  10,500  70C 10,500  70  10,500  70  10,500  70  10,500
Cull Bulls                             200-300  300       2     hOO      6   1,200                             2     500    2       600   4   1,200   4   1,200   U   1,200   4   1,200   4   1,200
Surplus Heifera                        220-250  260      62  13,61o     10   2,200   8   1,760  58  13,340  62  14,880   80   20,000 109  28,340 125  32,500 142  36,920 142  36,920 142  36,920
Steers 24-36 Dsonths                   110-160  180    140  15,400    140  16,800 140  18,200 140  19,600 140  21,200  168   26,880 197  35,460 213  38,340 231  41,580 231  41,580 231  41,580
Total Livestock Sales                                     37,840         28,600       28,360      41,340       L4,980         57,280      75,500       82,540       90,200      90,200       90,200
Operating Expenses (L)
Salt and Minerals  2/                                         2,300           2,h40       2,500        2,600       2,850          3,050       3,200        3,250        3,250       3,250        3,250
Animal Health      3/                                         4,900           5,100       5,300        5,500       6,000          6,400        6,700       6,800        6,800        6,800       6,800
Pasture Maintenance  4/                                       6,300           5,400       6,600        7,800       9,000          9,000        9,000       9,000        9,000        9,000       9,000
Fence and Water Maintenance 5/                                  800             500          500         500         600            700        1,000       1,500        2,000        2,500       2,500
Building Maintenance         a/                                 300             300          300         300         300            400          400         400          500          500         500
Fuel Oil and Grease                                             500             800          800       1,000       1,oo0          1,000        1,000       1,000        1,000        1,0o0       1,0oo
Machinery Maintenance  7/                                       600             800          800       1,000        1,100         1,200        1,500       1,500        1,500        1,500       1,500
Wages - Foreman  8/    -                                      2,400           2,500       2,500        2,600       2,700          2,700        2,800        3,000       3,000        3,200        3,200
Wages - Stochnan 9/                                           2,800           2,800       2 800        3,100       3,200          3,600        4,000       4,500        4,5500       4,500      14,500
Bull ReplacementlO/                                           1,800             -            -           -         2,700          2,700        4,500       44,500       1,5D         b4,500      4,500
Contingencies (approx. 5Ç)                                    1,140           1,000       1,100        1,100       1,450          1,450        1,600       1,650        1,650       1,750        1,750
Total Excpenses                                           23,840          21,600      23,200       25,500      30,900         32,200      35,700       37,100       37,700      38,500       38,500
Net Operating Income                                         14,000           7,000       5,160       15,840      14,080         25,080       39,800      45,440       52,5oo       51,700      51,700
3/  Price por head lncreased as a result of upgrading of cattle and better management.               6/ Rising to 5% of value of atructures L 10,000.
2/ AJCoat 12_per AI.                                                                                 7/ Rising to 10% of machinery value.
3/  L4 por AU plus voterinary services.                                                              8/ Well qualified foreman.
4/  L6 por ha - mainly mechanical after initial renovation.                                          2/ Ranging fran 4 e L 700 to 5 0 L 900 por annum.
2/  Low after renovation frm loan funds increasing to 4% of L 62,500.                               10/ Honduran bred bulla O L 900 per head.



C                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOND[IRAS
LIVESTOCK DEVEWOH4ENT PROJECT
Model 3. - Develooment of Breeding Ranch, 1,500 Ha
Financial Projectio
-                                                                                               (L'OO0)
Before            ------------------                     ---------Banch   ea-                 ------ ---Tear----  --
Development            1            2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9           10          11-20
1.  Cash Inflou
Total Sales                                  37.8             28.6          28.4        41.3          45.0         57.3         75.5         82.5        90.2          90.2         90.2          90.2
Commercial B~nk Loan                                          56.o          21.6         22.4
Total                                 37.8              84.6          50.0         63.7         45.0         57.3         75.5         82.5        90.2          90.2         90.2         90.2
2.  Cash Outflow
Rancher's Investment Contribution                             14.0           5.4          5.6
Investeent of Loan Funde                      -               56.0          21.6         22.4
Operating Expenses                           23.8             21.6          23.2         25.5         30.9         32.2         35.7         37.1        37.7          38.5         38.5          38.5
Total                                 23.8              91.6          50.2         53.5         30.9         32.2         35.7         37.1        37.7          38.5         38.5          38.5
3.  Cash Balanee (1-2)                             14.0              (7.0)         ( .2)        10.2         14.1         25.1         39.8         45.4        52.5          51.7         51.7          51.7
4.  Debt Service
Interest on Bank Loan                         -                5.0           7.0          9.0          9.0          9.0          9.0          7.2         5.4           3.6          1.8           -
Loan Amortization                                               -             -            -            -            -          20.0         20.0        20.0          20.0         20.0
5.  Cash Balanoe after Debt Service (3-4)           l.o             (12.0)         (7.2)         1.2          5.1         16.1         10.8         1B.2        27.1           28.1         29.9        651.7
6.  Annual Incrsmerotal Cash Balance                  -             (26.0)        (21.2)       (12.8)        (8.9)         2.1         (3.2)         4.2        13.1          14.1          15.9         37.7
7.  Annual Incrermental Herd Value --                                20.8          13.5         10.0         17.4         15.1         60.1          6.8          -             .             -            -
8.  Total Annual Increeental Balaee (6.7)             -             ( 6.8)        ( 7.7)        ( 2.8)        8.5         17.2          56.9         11.0        13.1          141<         15.9         37.7
1/  As compared with rancherse net cash position before development.
2/  As compared with before development herd value of L 211,380.  Also reflects rising value of cattle of about 20% from years 1-5 to years 6-20.



ANNEZ 7
H O N D U R A S
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM3NT PROJECT
Project Costa and Foreign Exchange Compo~nt
Model  1              Model 2           Model 3
Dairy/rattening  Be f Br.gdAn       Total   US  Dollar      Foreign Exchange
Fattening Ranches (75)   Ranches  (50)   MInche i (10    Cost   F4uivalent             Component
-____________-------------    0           --ó-) --- -------0_                               US$  000
Pasture Improvement
New                                 112.5                   175.0             -           287.5       143.8      15        21.6
Renovation                          9oo.0                   125.0           300.0      1,325.0        662.5      15         99.4
Fences
New                                 187.5                   100.0           100.0        387.5        193.8      40         77.5
Reneval                             157.5                    75.0            37.5         270.0       135.0      40         54.0
Wateríng Facílítias
Wells                               225.0                   180.0           180.0         585.0       292.5      35        102.4
Troughs and Tanks                   37.5                     50.0            75.0        162.5         81.2      35        2B.4
Engines and Pumps                   150.0                     -              30.0         180.0        90.0      35         31.5
Dairy                                 -                      25.0             -            25.0        12.5      35         4.4
Ranch Structures
Corrals and Chates                   67.5                    50.0            15.0         132.5        66.2      20         13.2
Dips/Spray Races                     56.3                    20.0            15.0          91.3        45.6      40         18.3
Silo  Tranch                         75.0                     -              25.0         100.0        50.0      20         10.0
Dairy Shed                            -                      25.0             -            25.0        12.5      20          2.5
Houses                                -                      25.0             -            25.0        12.5      20          2.5
Hachinery and Equipment
fractors                           262.5                      -              35.0        297.5        148.8      70       104.1
Forage Equipment                   225.0                      -              70.0        295.0        147.5      70       103.2
Mi3cellaneous                         -                       -              35.0         35.0         17.5      70         12.3
Breeding Stock
Heifera                          1,575.0                    125.0             -        1,700.0        850.0      -           -
Bulls                            1,012.5                    150.0           207.0      1,369.5        684.7      30       205.4
Contingencies                      506.2                    125.0           125.5        756.7        378.4      24         90.8
Total Capital Development        5,550.0                  1,250.0        1,250.0       8,050.0      4,025.0               981.5
Working Capital 1/                   1,501.5                   5594                        2,060.9     1,030.4      -           -
Total Ranch Development              7,051.5                 1,809.4         1,250.0     10,110.9      5,055.4      19        981.5
Technical Services                                               -               -          352.5        176.2      60        106.2
Total Project Cost                       _                                               10,463.4      5,231.6      21     1,087.7
1/ Purchase of Feeder Stears.
December 16, 1,69



u                                                                                         iHONDURAS
LIVESTOCIK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services Budget
Foreign Extchange
Project Years                                           Total Cost                            Coraponent
EKpenditure Items                           1              2               3              4               5               Lempiras         li 1 quiv.        %                 s$
-------------------------------- (Lempiras>) ------------------------___
Operating Expenses
Project Director 1/                      54,000         54,000         54,000          54,000          54,000             270,000          135,000  6/      75             101,250
Secretary                                 3,500          3,500          3,500           3,500           3,500              17,500            8,750          -
Driver/Meseenger                          2,500          2,500          2,500           2,500           2,500              12,500            6,250          -
Per Diem Allovances  /                    4,000          4,000          4,000           4,000           4,000              20,000           10,000          -
Office 2/                                   500            500            500             500             500               2,500            1,250          -
Tranaportatiom 1/                         2,500          2,500          2,500           2,500           2,500              12,500            6,250          30               1,875
Miscellaneous                                            1,500          1.500           1t°00           1.500               7.500            3 T50           -
Subtotal                              68,500          68,500         68,500          68,500          68,500             3142,500         171,250          60             103,125
Capital Erpenditures
Vehicle                                   7,000           -               -              -                -                 7,000            3,5oo           70              2,450
Office Equipment and
Purniture                              2,500           -              -               _               _                  2,500            1,250          50                 625
Contingencies                               500           -              -                                                    500              250          -
Subtotal                              10,000            -               -              -                -                10,000            5,000 6/       62               3,075
TOTAL                              78,500          68,500         68,500          68,500          68,500             352,500          176,250          60             106,200
ji Internationally recruited; finance provided includes salary, gratuity, international travel, family and housing allowances.
2/ Director approximately 100 days at L 30/day, and driver 100 days at 1 10/day.
2/ Allowances cover office supplies, telephone, etc. Office space vill be provided by Central Bank.
.V Estimates of L 1,500 yearly for fuel, repairs and maintenance of vehicle, and L 1,000 for in-country air travel.
5/ Includes adninistrative services of Central Bank.
6/  Financed by IDA Credit.
Note:  In addition to the above technical and administrative services, it is estimated that two livestock tehicians would be
needed beginning Year-1 and two more beginning Year-2. These technicians would be provided by the participating banks.
Their costs are not included in total Project cost.



ANN1a 9
HONDURAS
LIVTQOXW  Dl¡VF !LO  PROJEXT
PhaBiZI of Project Irvestments and IDA Disbursements
--_--------P- roject Year- ---
Category                  1         2         3        4         5      Total
RFan>h Investment
Ran,-hl Plans Initiated     40         65        30        -        -       135
Total Ranch Investments   758       1,45o    1,169       504      14i    4,025
(Us$0ooo)
IDA Disbursement (us$'000)
Ranch Subloans 1/          455        870       701     303        86    2,L115
Technical Services           32        27        27       27       27       140
487       897       728      330      113    2,555
1/  ;,er.stitutes 60% of total ranch investments.
Deceriber 16, 1969



HONDURAS: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
PROJECT COMMISSION
CENTRAL BANK
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND FINANCE
…___________    NATIONAL PLANNING COUNCIL                         -_
PARTICIPATING BANKS 1 /
NATIONAL AGRARIAN INSTITUTE
NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S ASSOCIATION
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (OBSERVER)
PROJECT DIRECTOR (EXECUTIVE SECRETARY)
PARTICIPATING                          P ROJECT DIRECTOR                            PARTICIPATING
BANKS                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANKS
TECHNICAL STAFF
OF PARTICIPATING BANKS
PARTICIPATING RANCHERS
1/  One representative each from:                                                                            z
z
Regional Branch Banks, North Coast                                                                    X
"National" Banks, Tegucigalpa                                                                          i
"Foreign" Banks, Tegucigalpa                                                           IBRD - 4338(2R)



AN¡E: 11
HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities of the Project Director
The Project Director, although seconded to the Central Bank,
shall report to the Project Comnission.  He shall have the technical
responsibility for implementation and execution of the Project, and shall
have the following specific duties and responsibilities:
(a)  advising the Project Commission on major policy decisions in
respect of the Project;  also would act as Executive Secretary;
(b) executing the Project in accordance with poiíoies and prooedures
agreed to by the Project Comnission;
(c) cooperating with the management of the Central Bank and of the
Participating Banks toward accomplishing Project objectives;
(d) approving secondment of such technical staff to his office as
he considers necessary to carry out Project activities;
(e) training of Project staff as may be necessary for £ulfillment
of Project objectives.
(f) approving or disapproving all ranch development plans prepared
and appraised under the Lending Program;
(g) providing such supervision and technical assistance as necessary
to ensure successful completion of each ranch development plan
and loan;
(h)  advising Participating Banks through the Project Commission of
any misuse of the proceeds of a ranch development loan or failure
on the part of the borrower to carry out the relevant ranch
development plan and recormending remedial action therefor;
(i)  establishing and maintaining records for sample ranches as needed
for Project evaluation;
(j) preparing an annual budget for the needs of the Project staff
and office to be submitted to the Central Bank; and
(k) preparing quarterly and annual Project progress reports for sub-
mission to the Project Comnission and Central Bank and for
transmittal to IDA.
December 16, 1969



tl                                                                                                  H O N D U R A S
LIVESTOCK DEVELWPMENT PROJZCT
Proiected aources and Application of Funds - Central Bank Livestock Account
(L' ne)OD
o'
ATEGR- --------e-ar-----------------------------_-----_-------_-_-_________-___
1        2         3        1k     5       5        7        d         9         15        11        12        13       114       15        16       Total
SOURCE OF FUNDS
IDA Credit for:
First Loans                       910    1,740    1,402    605    173        -        -         -         _        _         -         - _       _         _         _         _       4,830
Technical Services 1/              64        514      51      514    514      -       -                   -        -         -         _         _         _         _                    280
Interest Receir,ts from P.B.'s.
First Loana (5%)                   !-5      1"'       203    23"    244    235        214       179       136        89        42       10                                                -
Second Loans (5%)                  -         -         -      -       -        7       29        65       109       157       205      237       245       243       242       241        -
Repanuent of Principal by
P..,
First Loans 2/                     -         -         -      -      127    422       701       859       949       939      639       194       -         _         _         _       4,830
Second Loans 3/                                                               -       -         -         -          19       517      946    1,222    1,618    2,410    2,376            -
Second Loans Account               -         -         -      -       _     136       4136      715       874      964       973    1,123    1,057    1,139    1,534    2,326    11,327
(Rollover funds)
TOTAL                    1.019    1,926    1,659    892    598    800    1.380    1.818    2,068    Z,168    2,376    2,510    2.524    3,000    4,186    4,943                   -
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
First Loans to P.B.'s.            910    1,740    1,402    605    173             -        -         -         -              -        -         -         -         -         -          -
Second Laona to P.B.'s.            -         -         -      -       -     136       436       715       874       964      973    1,173    1,107    1,189    1,584           -          -
Technical Services 4/              78        68        68     69      69      10       10        10        10        10        10       10        10        10        10       136        -
Interst PSYents to
Gover=2mnt (1;. 5S)
First Loans                        40       119       183    210    220    212        193       161       122        eo        38         9      -         -         -         -          -
Second Loans                       -         -         -      -       -        6       26        58        98       141      184       213       220       219       218       217        -
Principal P enta to
r,overriment                         -- -                                                -        -         -         -          148       48       48         48       48        48      288
14, 542
Livestock Account 6/                (9)       (1)         6       8    136    436       715       874       964       973    1,123    1,057    1,139    1,534    2,326    4,542             -
TOTAL                    1,019    1,926    1,659    892    598    800    1,380    1,818    2,068    2.168    2,376    2,510    2,524    3,000    4,186    4,943                    _
1/  Includes salary, international travel, family and housing allowances of Project Director plus CIF cost for transport (vehicles) and office enuipment.
2/  Based on average of 4 years grace plus 6 equal annual payments.  (Loans made in Year-3 would haye last orincinal installment maturity in Year-12).
3/  Based or. narrowing repayment terms, as well as grace neriods, as the externsion cf Stage II loauis acproaches Year-i.
4/ Includes tfunds fron IDA Credit plus local costs of Project Director and administrative costs of Central Bank.
£/  No.payments during Years 1-10 and 1% per year during Years 1-1, (IDA terms) on L 4.8 million (US$2.4 million).
6/  Central Be.k would recover deficits of ye2rs 1 2nd 2 -n :rqrs 3 and 4 with a small surplus (L 4,9oo).  Stage 11 rollover lending w3uld thus begin in years 5-6.



t                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H O N D U R A S
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Sources and Application of Funda - Participating Banks
o'
(L'000)
>                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Y e a r - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
CATEGORY                                            1        2        3                        6        7                9      10       11      12       13       14      15       16
SCFRCE OF FUNDS
Central Bank - First Loans                              910   1,740   1,402      605     173      -                                 -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Central Bank - Second Loans                             -       -        -       -        -       136      436     715      874     964      973   1,123   1,057   1,139   1,534   2,326
Interest Receipts
First Loana (9%)                                      109     318      486     559      580     564      514     430      327     210      100       23     -                         -
Second Loans (9%)                                     -       -        -       -        -        12       51     115      194      281     368      428     424      437     436      217
Working Capital (10%) 1/                               30     113      207     251      275      297     285      248     223      210     206      206     206      206      206     206
Repayment Principal-31
First Loans                                           -       -                         170     562      935   1,145   1,265   1,252       853      290     -        _       _        _
Second Loans                                                                                             -       -        -         19     517      946   1,222   1,618   2,410   4,795
Working Capital                                       299   1.128   2.068   2.504   2.753   2.968   2,853   2.484   2.226   2.095   2.059   2.o59   2.o59   2.059   2.0591  2.059
TOTAL                                      1.348   3.299   4.163   3.919   3.951   4.539   5.074   5.137   5,109   5.031   5.076   5.075   4.968   5.459   6.645   9,603
APPLICATION OF FUND
First Loans                                        1,213   2,320   1,870       807      230     -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Second Loans                                          -       -        -       -        -       136      436     715      874     964      973   1,123   1,057   1,139   1,534   2,326
Working Capital                                       299   1,128   2,068   2,504   2,753   2,928   2,853   2,484   2,226   2,095   2,059   2,059   2,059   2,059   2,059   2,059
Technical Services and Administrative Costa 3/         30      93     149      174      181      91       92      94       99     107      114      126     136      143     150      150
Interest Pamnts to CB  (5%)
First Loans                                            45     132      203     233      244     235      214     179      136       89      42       10     -        -       -        -
Second Loans                                          -       -        -       -        -         7       29      65      109      157     205      237      245     243      242     241
Repayment of Principal to CB
First Loans                                           -       -        -       -        127     422      701     859      949      939     639      194     _        _        _       _
Second Loans                                                                            -       -        -       -        -         19     517      946   1,222   1,618   2,410   4,795
Sub-total                                  1,587   3,673  14,290   3,718   3,535   3,819   4,325   4,396  l4,393   4,370   4,549   4,695   4,719   5,202   6,395   9,571
Net Cash Flow                                          (239)   (376)   (127)    201       416     720      749      741     716      661     527      380      249     257      250      32
TOTAL                                      1.348   3.299   4.163   3,919   3,951   4,539   5.074   5.137   5,109   5,031   5,076   5,075   4,968   5,459   6.645   9,603
Incremental Net Flow                                   (239)   (615)   (742)   (541)   (125)    595   1.344   2,085   2,801   3,462   3,989   4.369   4.618   4,875   5.125   5.157
1/  Nom`nal interest rete C/ but effective cast abmut 12% w}er. interest is paid in advanre, as is the custonary practice.
2/  Linked to repayment ter-s for 'irst ranch lopns and- arr-anin, reiDan:nent terns, as wel' as graze perírds, for second Joans as the rollover pericd approaches year-16.
3/  2alculated on fo1lcwing estim  s:  1% of cutstandiíl-  .an vc`ime lincludding working capital) years 1-5;  1.C,% cX :utstanding loan volume years 6-16.



HONDURAS                                                 ANIJl lb
LIVESTOCK DEVEIDPMENT PRDJECT
Cattle Population - Supply and Demand
Historic Trend and Projections up to 1971
(1)          (2)        (3)         (4)          (5)       (6)          (7)       (8)           (9)         (10)
Extraction
from                                            Cattle Slaught.red       Cattle Available
National    Extraction     Exporte of live         By Export                   for
Year            Population      Herd          Rate             cattle            Packing Plants          Local Consumntion
('000)           t      ('000)        ((o)                  a of 3)    ('000)        (% of 3)    ('000)          of 3)
1960    1,197.6    100          140.4       11.7        34.3        24.4         6.1         V.3         100.0       71.2
1961    1,223.4     102.1       168.3       13.8        47.8        28.4        11.0         6.9         109.5        65.1
1962    1,225.6    102.3        175.5       14.3        43.2        24.6        25.6        14.6         106.7        60.8
1963    1,220.9    101.5        176.5       14.5        43.1         24.4       30.4        17.2         103.1        58.4
1964    1,221.4     102,0       150.8       13.0        33.4        20.9        36.7        23.0          89.7        56.1
1965    1,239.0    103.5        156.2       12.6        24.8        15.9        42.4        27.1          892.        57.0
1966    1,245.6    104.0        158.7       12.7        27.6        17.4        56.6        35.7           74.5       46.9
1967                            159.7                   32.2        20.2        52.7        33.0           74.8       46. 
1968                            162.0                   32.8         20.2       53.7        33.1           75.5       46.6
1969                            161.3                   33.5        20.8        54.8        34.0           73.0       45.2
1970                            160.4                   34.0         21.2       56.4        35.2           70.0       43.6
1971                            158.5                   34.6        21.8        57.5        36.3           66.4       41.9
Notes  1.  Supply projectionsfro1967on arebased on extraction rate of 12%; offective weaning rate 35% and mortality adulta 5%.
2.  Live  cattle export projections based on 2% annual increase declining to 1.5% in the last 2 years due to build-up
of female stock in Guatemala.
3. Meat export projections based on average 2.5% increase annually.
Sourcet   1960-66: Central Bank of Honduras, Department of Economic Studies; 1967-71:  mission estimates



HONDIURAS
LIISIDMC,OX DU V5PM7T PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return of Ranch Models
o.
H                                                        -----------------------------------------------  Ranch Year --------------------------------------------------------------
Ranch Model                        1          2            3                       5           6           7           8           9            10           11-19           20
'L'IOO)
1.   Beef Breeding/Fatteni-ng
Benefits:
Incremental Sales                      19.9        37.7       h4.9         4o.1        65.6        53.41        56.5        5L.7        54.6        58.5           58.5           11h.71'
Costs:
Investment Costs                       h6.7        13.7        13.7
Working Cauital                        12.5        11.7         Is.1       (2.9)         9.2        (6.0)       (3.4s)      (3.h)       (1.8)
Incremental Operating Costa            17.8        31.6        37.5        35.1         . 45.8     39.0         31.9        32.2        29.7        30.7           30.7            30.7
Total                                  77.0        77 .0       55.3        Tr5 1    .5              33W         T  -B-   2 7.9                                                        7
Net Cash Flow                            (57.1)       (19.3)      (10.5)        7.6        13.6        20.1        25.0        25.9        26.7         27.8           27.8          111.0
Rate of Return - 18%
2.   Dairy-Steer/Fatteníng
Benefits:
Incremental Sales                       5.3        11.2        18.5        19.2         28.1       27.1        26.2         26.3        27.7        27.7           27.7            16.7
Costs:
Investment Co5ts                       15.5         3.0         1.5
Working Capital                         3.3         5.1          2.6          .1         3.6        (1.1)       (1.4)       ( .8)         -            -
Ineremental Onerating Costs             8.7        10.3        11.7        16.3        20.1         18.7        17.3        17.3        17.3        17.3            17.3           17.3
Total                                  23.5        23.1        1.          -,.         23.7         17.3        15.9        16.         17.3        17.3            17.3           17.3
Net Cash Flow                            (19.2)        ('.7'       ( .3)       2P.          b.l         9.9        10.3         9.9        10.o 10.4                   10.4            29.1
Rate of Return - 21%
3.   Beef Breedlng Ranch
Benefits:
Incremental Sales                      (Q.2)       (3.8)                     7.7        19.5        37.7        11.7        52.1        52.L        52.4            52.1          196.1 -
Costs:
Investnent Costs                       70.0        -7.0        ^3.0
Incremental Onerating Costs            (2.2)       ( .6)        1.7          7.1         8.!        11.9        13.3        13.?        11.7        1L.7            11.7          1L.7
Total                       67.E 26.4                           27          7T.                     11.9        U3I3        I73         1.7         I7              11U.7
Net Cash Flow                             (77.0)      ('5.8)      (26.2)         .1        11.1        25.'        31.1         38.5        37.7        37.7           37.7           181.4
Ra'e of Ret-cm - 16l
1/  Includes incremental value of herd.



a                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H O N D U R A S
a                                                                                          LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits and Justification
Incremental Costs ani Benefits
(L '00)
-----Yer--_______
1        2          3         14         5          6          7         8          9         10         11        12         13        14-20
Benefita
Incremental Sales  1/               432    1,596      3,248      4,040     4,880      5,931      6,309     6,181      6,231      6,305      6,447     6,520      6,525      6,532
Incremental Costa
Total On-ranch
Investments                    1,517    2,900       2,337      1,oo8       289        -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -
Working Capital                     29n       o29       940        437        248       215       (115)      (369)      (258)      (131)      (36)       _    -               -
Operating Costs  2/                 432    1,555      2,7°4      3,462     3,913      4,213      4,084     3,710      3,474      3,357      3,333      3,346     3,318      3,328
Technical Services                  108       181       275        320       344         50         50         50        50         50         35         10       -          -
Total Cosis                   2,356    5,465       6,346     5,227      4,794      4,478      4,019     3,391      3,266      3,276      3,332     3,356      3,318      3,328
Net Flow                           (1,924)  (3,769)   (3,098)   (1,187)          86     1,453      2,290      2,790     2,965      3,029      3,115      3,164     3,207      3,204
Incremental Revenue
for Government  3/                 23       54         77         86        87         92         96         89        85         84         84         85        85         85
Net Flow to Economy                (1,901)  (3,715)   (3,021)   (1,101)         173     1,545      2,386      2,879     3,050      3,113      3,199      3,249     3,292      3,289
The economic rate of return over a 20-year period is about 18%.
1/ Increanetal milk production that would be sold is valued at CIF price of L 0.11 per liter (=CIF price imported milk powder converted into. liquid milk).
2/ Subsidy on gasoline (L 0.40/gallon) has been added to operating costs.
3/  Based on slaughter taxes paid to Government (L 2 per animal) and to Municipalities (L 2.20 - 6.0 per animal) plus import duties levied on goads imported
for on-ranch development under the Project.
NOTE: Costs and benefits continue unchanged after year-14.  At the end of year-20, the increase in herd value totaling 8,627 thousand lempiras is taken into
consideration for calculating the rate of return.



C A   /  8 B B E A N    £     4|
IS  A S D E L A B A H I A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R''                        AC C 1<  I~
¡                0     0   0 00 0
-o  -     6  CEIA                   á      ¡0  L   A   IJ   e
-tSPl R A'i '->   ',g1  t  /    .--J     '                   ,._)                    HONDURAS
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
| t -;-\f                 6r                                        PROJECT AREAS
~ g c        Cet4Jl       ......
P 4 C /          a'>    NC_q_'rI
-    ---------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  060666/6)
~~~_     _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _____       soko               ad,Oo    -       -b      esslo        e4o  l _ _ _  ¡ r  '0406
U.L  0>6'00    00



