The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USEON
Reot No. 8.30-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
RMRAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
JULY 5, 1990
I~~~~~~~~
Country  .epar  et III
Latin America land the Caribbean Regional Office-
Tlis document has a reitricted didsbutin and may be used by redpleuts only in the perfomance of
tekr of;ciaI duts. Its contnts may not otherwise be didind without W.r1_  .ankauhauin.



\  .               ,                  . (   &~~~~~~~~~~URtlRNCY KOUIVALE3NTS
Currency Utnt- - Colombian Peso (Col)4-$
-  US £l OCol8 400
(1/90)-
WRIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABDDVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANPAC       T- he National Assotiation of Artisan Fishermen
AOP          - Annual Operating Plan
CAJA'ACRARIA - Caja de ,Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(Agricultural. Industrial and.Mining Credit Bank)
CESCO       - Centros Regionales de Servicios para la
Comercialisacion
(Regional Marketing Service Centers)
CESPAS       -  Centros de Servlcios a ls Pssca Artessnal
(Small-Scale Fishery Service Centers)
CRECgD       - Centros Regionales der Capacitacion y Difusion de
Tecnologia
(Regional Center for Training and Diffusion of
Technology)
CONPES       - Consejo Nacional de Politics Economion y-asocial
(National Council for Social and Economic Policy)
CORFAS          Corporation Fund to Assist Associative Enterprises
CIAt         . Research Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIDA         - Canadian International Development Agncny
CM              Cofinancing Matrix
DNP          - Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Depattmsnt)
DRI          -  Fondo de Desarrollo Rutal Integrado
(Integrated Rural Development Pund)
INCOPIR      -  Colombian  ompany for Perishable Produce
3ESAP        -  gscuela Superior de Administracion Publica
(The Superior School for Public Administration)
PUT \   pDbTerritorial Financing Development OWganmsation             ,.
'     PIE       -  Fondo Financieto de Desarrollo Urlbano                          -
_?un4i for Fliunncin4kUrban Development)
.,   -     -NCV         LFonda Nacional 4e Caminos Vacinales
(The Natioal Fund for Rural Roads)
FRCAMC       -  Revolving Credit Fund for the Association of-Rural
women                  =
ICA          -  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Cotiombian Agricultural InStituote),
IDB          -  The tnter-American Development BUnk
Banco Interatericano de Desirrollo
a.       INC08A        -  Instituto Colombiano`zde la Refotma Agraria
(Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform)
IlNP             National Fisheries tnstitute
-IgDnEENA    -  Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables
(National Institute for Renewable Natura,l
Resources)
IVA          -  Impuesto al Valor Agregado
(Value Added Tax)                                                 a
-KMOAho  Ministerio de Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
H(OF         - Ministry of Finance
'iniste*io de Finanzas
PNR          -  Plan Nacional de Rehabllitsciln
(National Rehabilitation Plan)
RDIP         -  Rural Development Investrmet Program (RDIP)
SAC             The Agricultural Society of Colombia
ZENA         -  Sewvicio Nacional de Aprendizajo
(National Apprenticeship Servlce)
SNCA            National System for Agricultural Credit
TAU          - bnidades Municipales de Asistencia Tecnica  ,
Agropecuaria
(Municipal Technical Assistance Units. Extension)
ZPTD            Zonal Pldns for Technological Development'
January  . - December 31



FOR OFFiC    USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pase Number
I.       LOAN AND PROJECT SUM4ARY ...............................            1
II.      THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR & THE ROLE OF SMALL FARMERS ....            4
Structure and Performance ................. .. . .* ... *.          4
Potential for Agricultural Production Growth ...........            4
The Small Farmer--Contributions and Constraints ........            5
Bank Strategy in the Agriculture Sector and
Experience with Poverty Alleviation Programs .........            5
III.     THE PROJECT ..... ..................................8
Rationale for Bank Involvement .........................            a
Background ................  .,.....                                8
Project Objectives ....................................             9
Project Description ....... .............*...........              10
Arrangements for the Identifying, Preparing,
Budgeting and.Cofinancing of Projects under the RDIP..           10
Profiles-of Project to be Cofinanced under the RDIP ....          ig
Project Costs ......................20
Project Financing ........................ .........               21
Procurement ................**.*....21
Disbursements .............                                        23
Accounting and Auditing .................................          23
IV.      RDIP IMPLEMENTATION ....................................           24
The Executing Agency - D      R      I ........................ *. . .  24
Monitoring, Program Review, Impact and
Environmental Evaluations ..............................         27
V.       PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................                   28
VI.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ................           32
This report is based on the findings of a joint Bank/ID8 appraisal mission
that visited Colombia in November 1989. The mission comprised Bank:
Messrs/Mmes. S. Ruderfer (Mission Leader), W.B. Johnson, M. McMahon,
S. Jose, M. Jichlinski, J. Arboleda, H. Cardoso (Consultants), IDB:
E. Ampuero (Mission Leader), R. Puch, E. Machado, A. Gomez, A. Blandon,
K. Keipi, F. Peacock, F. Villamizar, S. Zamora, M. Iniguez, P. Naveas,
C. Melo and C. Fonseca (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PLae No.
ANNEX 1
The Decentralization Reforms and Their Implications
for the 1D0P ...............,*......**************...        36
A=2
602 DRI Municipalities ...................                   39
ANNEX 3S
Formula for Selection of 602 Municipalities ..........         46
ANNEX 4:
Annual Planning, Progravming, Appraisal and Execution
of Projects in the RDIP ...                                 47
ANNE S:
Summary of DRI's Cofinancing Matrix (1) (CM) with
Municipalities/Entities .........................................  53
ANNEX 6:
Value Added Transfer (IVA) ...........     ................    54
ANMN  7: s 
RDIP & Technical Assistance Projects Programed for
Tmplementation in 1990 .....      ................ ....      58
AN1NEX 8:
Preparation of Technical Adaptation Projects Within
the Context of the Zonal Plan for Technology
Developmsnt ......................... o....................  59
AMNEX 9t
Current and Potential Yields (CRECED) ................        60
NNEX 10:
Training ............................... *                     61
ANNEX 11:
Agricultural Credit Policy In Colombia  ..............         63
AMNE 12:
Loan and Project Summary .............................         67
ANNEX 13:
Basic Parameters for Price Contingencies .............        76
ANNEX 14:
Audit Requirements ................77............. ...         7
ANNEX 15t
DRI Organizational Chart ..............................        79



AMNEX~ h a 
ANNE  16:                   -
t          lb~~Mnitoring-~System                                        so.........................8
-ANNE  17&
Program Review ...     .......    .......*. * ... .* ... .  86
-ANNEX 18.
Selected Documents and Data Available In the Project
VA le .. .... .6                                            87
APPENDIX A                                                     90
-APP DIX    B                                                  92
NP(IBRD 21684R1)



COLONBI&
lhl DEVELOPMENT lMVESTHENT PROGRAJ  (RDIP)
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers         The Republic of Colombia
Ezecutina ftencys The Fund for Integrated Rural Development (DRI)
Beneficiaries:   Approximately 9,000 rural communitiei in 602
municipalities encompassing about 280,000 poor farmers and
fishermen, DRI and -rhe municipalitics
Loan Amounts      US$75.0 million
Terms:            17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. The Government would make the
loan proceeds available to DRI as a grant, and DRI would
pass it on to the muricipalities also on a grant basis.
Proiect
Descrintion;      The RDIP would support the first phase of a time-slice of
DRI's investment program (1990-1994), consisting of small,
discrete, environmentally sound projects in 9,000 rural
communities (602 municipalities) to helps (a) increase
the income of about 280,000 poor farmers and fishermen
mainly in the Andean and coastal areas of Colombia;
(b) improve living standards of rural communities through
provision of potable water and better sanitation, roads
and marketing facilities; (c) protect and develop
watershed areas to safeguard the.environment and help
ensure pustainable supplies of clean drinking and
irrigation.water; (d) promote grassroots involvement of
rural communities in the identification of investment
needs and the maintenance thereof; and (e) strengthen
DRI's capacity to plan, prepare, appraise and help the
municipalities to administer and cofinance development
projects as mandated in the 1986-1989 decentralization
reforms. To this end, the IDIP would finance specific
projects ins (a) Aaricultural Production and
Environmental Protection (technology adaptation and
extension, watershed management and environmental
protection, fisheries, and marketing); (b) Trainina and
Community Organization Surnort for: Ci) organizing rural
communities to prepare Community Profiles (Ficha Veredal)
and involving them in identifying projects in close
collaboration with municipal gcvernments and DRI;
(ii) forming associations of rtral women, and developing
cottage enterprises; and (iii) training of extension
agents, municipal mayors, regional development
corporations, and DRI staff and rural communities in all
aspects of environmental management of projectes;
(c) hfrt!structure (rural roads and water supply and



1*'
sanitation)I and td) StrenbeninA DRI aId the
munilcita lltl   (technical. assistance, vehicles. equipment,
traMinIg sd preinveetment studies) for the preparation of
projects for inclusLon in the RDIP in the outer years
C 199i-1994).
Bewnefits and-
Risks.            The major benefAts of the RDIP would bee flrst, reduced
rural poverty by increasing employment and incomes of some
280,000 poor farmers, fishermen and womei through access
to improved agricultural technological pickages with
strong support of extension services and complimentary
marketing facilities; second, improved livlng conditions
fc)r the rural poor in about 9,000 communities through
access to safe drinking water, better sanitation and rural
roads to connect villages with production and marketing
tenters; third, enhanced sustainability of investuAmnts
throuSp more active involvement of rural communities;
fourth. improved soil management practices in watersheds,
mainly In the Andean region to safeguard the environmwat
and fifth, strengthened DRI's capabilities to plan,
prepare, appraise and supervise projects, as well as
enhance the,capacity of the municipalities to cofinance
and admiULster rural development projects. The main risk8
relate to the degree to which benefits mentioned above may
not fully materialize dFtring-the fivst five years of the
RDIP becaus of the inexperieneq and limited capacity of   --
municipaities to objectively select and implement
projects in-pite of the established screening procedures
2 (ZIigibilLty Zritertial- Implementation -may Also take
longer than planned because procedures, especially the
co$inancing arrangements between municipalities and DRI
are new, and the capacity of the municipalities to arrange
to provide effective eztension se;vices. Although- there
Is adequate capacity-in Colombia to produce technological
packages and to prbvA- extension'services, a related risk
concerns=ICA's capacity to generate 'enough technology
packages in a timely manner and transfer the know-how
effectively to farmers under the decentraXlized system.  To
minimise these risks, advanced Annual Operating Plans
would be prepared, and a comprehensive Program Review of
the RDIP would be completed after the first three years to
identify potential problems including, inter alia, the
effectiv;40ss of research and extensioi services under the
RDIP, et6. , and to'take necessTry corrective measures*
Special arrangements have also been made between the Beak
and IDB to ensure close and intensive supervision under
which IDB's Resident Mission would complement the Bank's
supervision of the RDIP.



RURAL DRVELOPIER? INVESTMENT PROGRhZ(
LOhN AND PROJEC  SUMOARY TABLE
Local       Foreim      Total 
------- (US$ million) ------
Agricultural Production and
Environmental Protection                 56.1         20.4        76.4    30.6
Infrastructure                             33.9         73.3       107.3    42.9
Training and Community Organization        16.7           4.2       20.9     8.3
Strengthening DIU & Mmnicipalities          7.2          1.S         8.7     3.5
Total Baseline CQsts                    113.9         Pf.4       213.3    85.3
Physical Contingencies                      5.7           5.0       10.7     4.3
Price Contingencies                         7.8         18.3        26.1    10.4
Total Proaram Costs                     127.4        122.        250.0   100.Q
Financing Plan
Municipalities & Other Agencies            62.5           0.0       62.5    25.0
Gotvernment Resources (DRI)                37.6          0.0        37.6    15.1
IBRD                                       13.7         61.3        75.0    30.0
IDB                                        13.7         61.3        75.0   30.0
Totl Pro&m-                                         122.6 C.            100.0
Estimated Disbursementsa
1nu1   1992   1993   1994             96   1997    1998    122e
Annual        3.0    3.0    7.5  12.0    11.2   15.7   14.2        7.7     0.5
Cumulative    3.0    6.0  13.5  25.5    36.7   52.5   66.7    74.5   75.0
Economic Rate of Returms 16z
MRs IBRD No: 2168411



-4-
11. THE AGR!CULTURAL SECTOR AND THE RX& OF SHALL EARNERS
Structure and Performance
2.01     Agriculture accounts for about 2ao  of GDP, provides employment for
two million people--252 of the labor force--and contributes about 702 of
merchandise exports. Of this, coffee accounts for about 122 of
agricultural GDP; 1 other permanent cropst 31S; annual crops: 202; and
livestocks 372. However, coffee accounts for 55? of total (legal)
exports, and 852 of agricultural exports. Coffee exports, as a proportion
of total agricultural exports, have remained fairly constant over the last
two decades, but some diversification has occurred within non-coffee
agricultural exports (e.g., flowers and bananas). Growth of agricultural
GDP in Colombia was good in the 1970-80 period (about 4.5? p.a.). slowed
between 1980 and 1985 to 1.12 p.a., but picked up again in 1986 to about 2S
and 4.51 in 1987. The slowdown in the early 19809 was attributed to
weakening demand for Colombia's non-coffee agricultural exports, and
appreciation of the real exchange rate. It may also have reflected the
steady decline in public sector investment expenditure for agriculture
during the decade of the 19.709 and early 19808.
2.02     Colombia has a total land area of 114 million ha, of which no more
tlan 33 million ha (30?) are considered suitable for agricultural
production (14 million ha for crops and 19 million ha for livestock). Of
this area, about 27 million ha are presently under cultivation, with crop
production accounting for about 4 million ha in 1985 (only 282 of the total
area potentially usable for cropping), and about 23 million ha in
livestock. Of the 10 million ha suitable for rainfed production, about
7 million ha are in sloping areas in the Andean foothills which could be
primarily used for permanent crops to minimize erosion problems, and
3 million ha are in flatlands primarily in the coastal areas.
2.03     Three typical farming practices prevail:  (a) modern agriculture
located primarily on flat and relatively more fertile lands involving more
capital-intensive technology and higher productivity (accounts for about
10? of the area of production); (b) traditional agriculture typical of
mountainous land (the Andean zones) and in the tropical lowlands (coastal
zone); this system is marked by more labor-intensive technology and lower
productivity; and (c) transition agriculture in which modern and
traditional technologies are both used by a mixture of small, medium and
large producers.
Potential for Aaricultural Production Growth
2.04     The Agricultural Society of Colombia (SAC) has calculated Colombia
would need to bring 2 to 3 mil1ion additional ha into agricultural
production (to 30 milli'n ha compared with 27 million ha currently under
production, or an increase of about 11?) by the year 2000 to meet the
expected demand for foodstuffs for agroindustries, and for expanding
exports of agricultural commodities. Land availability would not be a
1/ This proportion is likely to decline because of the breakdown of the
International Coffee Agreement in July 1989 which has cut the
international price by 50Z.



-5-
constraint to increasing food production in Colombia. However, the
existing pattern of land distribution and ownership and lack of adequate
transport infrastructure (which would be costly to provide) constrain the
incorporation of additional land into production. A more efficient way to
meet the expected additional demand would be through agricultural
intensification and improved yields. While crop yields are quite good on
average, there are large variations in crop productivity between commercial
crops, especially rice (produced mostly by large farmers on the valley
floors of the main rivers, on soils vith good agricultural potential) and
food crops (produced primarily by small farmers).
The Small Farmers--Contributions and Constrainto
2.05     It is estimated that Colombia has about 1.0 million small farmers
who work 781 of all the farms in the country, but these account for only
S.72 of the total farm area under cultivation. The small farmers are vital
for sustaining Colombia's self-sufficiency in producing basic foodstsffs,
mainly for the domestic market. Using the 1982 figures of the National
Planning Department (DNP), it is estimated that small farmers produce about
601 of the basic foodstuffs (maize, wheat, beans, potatoes, cassava,
plantain, panela, fruits and vegetables), and about 201 of the industrial
raw material derived from agriculture. They consume about 302 of their
production and sell the remaining 701. Domestic demand accounts for 80 of
the sector's growth, with the remaining 202 due to external demand. About
602 of the rural labor force is employed in small-scale agriculture,
consisting of small landholdings concentrated in the Andean mountainous
regions which are prone to erosion. There is also a sizeable concentration
of small farmers in the tropical lowlands. Evaluation studies of the
average agricultural production under the First and Second Rural Integrated
Development Projects (DRI I and II), para. 2.08 (a) and (b), have shown
impressive yield increases for some crops, such ass   1032 for cassavat
671 for maize; 721 for beans.
2.06     However, because of deficiencies in adapting and transferring
technology from the Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) experimental
stations to poor farmers, it has not been possible until now to improve
yields for the majority of small farmers. To overcome this problem, ICA
has recently established 33 Regional Centers for Training and Diffusion of
Technology (CRECED) with specific responsibility for adapting technology to
the agroecology needs of poor farmers. An additional 19 CRECEDs would be
established under the RDIP (para. 3.13 (a)). Besides low productivity,
transportation costs are higher in the Andean and coastal regions due to
the absence of roads, inadequate storage and marketing problems which lso
cause serious production losses. Rural families also lack clean water and
appropriate sanitation services. The proposed Rural Development Investment
Program (RDIP) would help to overcome these problems by financing the cost
of technology adaptation and transfer, roads, marketing, and water supply
and sanitation projects as well as training.
Bank Strateav in the Agricultural Sector and Experience with Poverty
Alleviation Proarams
2.07.    The Bank's strategy gives priority to investments for poverty
alleviation, and for improving the efficiency of key economic sectors. The
Bank supports the Government's anti-poverty strategy which is explicitly



set within the framework of overall macroeconomic policies, on the premise
that Colombia can best eradicate poverty by sustaining high economic growth
and thereby expand the 'overall demand for labor. To this end, the
Government seeks to achieve steady GDP growth (around 52 per annum during
1987-1990) combined with continued sound fiscal and external management.
Moreover, beyond attaining the overall growth targets, the Government
supports expanding specific programs designed to increase the productivity
and employment opportunities of the poor, such as rural development
projects. education and health. Bank strategy for assisting agricultural
development aims at achieving efficient growth of the sector bys (a)
generating and promoting adaptation and transfer of new technology; (b)
assisting in the rationalisation of the extension system and improving
credit delivery services in rural areas; and (c) providing support in
infrastructure, mainly irrigation and rural roa'5.
*-08     Between 1977 and 1990. the Bank has helped finance two
multisectoral programs targeted specifically for poverty alleviation in the
rural areas, totalling US$105.0 million, as well as ten other projects
(US$645.0 million) for a grand total of US$750.0 million. Because of their
relevance to the proposed RDIP, the experience with the two DRI rural
development projects is discussed below:
(a) the First InteRrated Rural Develoament Proiect (DRI I),
Loan 1352-CO for US$52.0 million, signed in January 1977, was part
of a US$250 million national program of rural development In five
Impoverished regions, with a high concentration of low income
farmers with small landholdings, often without title. The Bank-
financed DRI I Project focused on improving the income of about
40,000 farmers with less thsa. 20 ha and the living conditions of
about 150,000 rural inhabitants of some of the poorest areas In
three Andean regions. Simultaneously, a loan of US$65 million
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) financed
investments in the departments of Boyaca and Santander, and a loan
of US$13 million from the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) assisted in the departments of Cordoba and Sucre.
The DRI I Project Completion Report concluded that the primary
strategy for improving farmers' income through increasing yields,
reducing idle land, and introducing a managerial approach to
farming and marketing was successful. The project's economic rate
of return was 162 against an appraisal estimate of 222. The
average financial rate of return was 23Z against an appraisal
estimate of 572; and
(b) the Second Integrated Rural Development Proiect (DRI II),
Loan 2174-CO for US$53.0 million was signed in July 1982, and
declared effective one year later (May 1983). The project covered
93 municipalities in four departments (Huila, Tolima, Meta and
Caldas). The project was closed on June 30, 1990 and it burpassed
most of the physical targets in the SAR, but disbursed about 822
of the loan amount. Implementation was slower than prograsmed
because of chronic shortages and delays in provision of
counterparts funds., and non-compliance by some executing agencies
with audit requirements which further slowed disbursements. A
partial impact evaluation, carried out under the project for the
Tolima District concluded that the living standard8 of DRI



beneficiaries have Improved significantly. About 562 of the
beneficiaries have improved their housing, 632 their access to
electricity, and 552 benefited from better sanitation services.
Bealth standards and education levels, however, have romained
relatively poor in this area in spite of the project.  The
participation of rural families in community organizations rose to
842 ia 1989 from 392 in 1983. The evaluation has calculated the
internal rate of return for the agricultural production component
for Tolima at 372. Some US$5.6 million under the project
(Loan 2174-CO) was earmarked for testing on a pilot basis the new
cofinancing concept of the RDIP. This experience has been used in
designing the institutional aspects, cofinancing arrangements and
prmotion programs for implementation of the RDIP. ¢
2.09     Other Bank operations in the rural sector have included the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 2303-CO for
US$63.4 million in 1983) to help generate tecbnological packages which
should benefit, among others, the small farms in the RDIP; the Agricultural
Diversification Project (Loan 2453-CO for US$50.0 million in 1984); the
Small-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 3113-CO for US$78.2 million in August
1, 1989); Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project (Loan 2611-CO for
US$36.5 miAlion in 1985); the Rural Transport Sector Project (Loan 2668-CO
for US$62 million in 1986); the Second Rural Roads Sector Project
(Loan 3157-CO for US$55.0 million in 1990); a Village Electrification
Project (Loan 1999-CO for US$36 million in 1981); the First and Second
Subsector Projects for Primary Education (Loan 2192-CO and Loan 3010-CO for
US$14.0 and US$100 million in 1982 and 1988 respectively); and Water Supply
and Sewerage Sector Project (Loan 2961-CO for US$150 million in 19a8).
2.10     As noted in para. 2.08 (a) and (b) above, the DRI program has been
relatively successful in improving the standard of living of the rural poor
and it has been sustained throughout several Colombian administrations.
The program incorporates a number of the more successful features of rural
development efforts identified In the Bank's Report on Experience with
Rural Development (Report No. 6883), in that its (a) uses existing
institutions/structures to implement projects; (b) coordinates its
assistance with other sectoral programs; and (c) backs its agricultural
production prnjects vith extension services and technology.
2.11     The RDIP would introduce further improvements in the management of
DRI's program bys strengthening joint bottom-up planning by the
municipalities, local communities, and DRI; focusing primarily on improving
agricultural productivity instead of also on health, education and power
which according to the decentralization reforms would be financed and
managed by the municipalities In cooperation with the respective sectoral
Ministries instead of DRI; so that DRI could cofinance only projects
supporting agricultural production and essential services; and reducing the
processing time of DBI's reimbursemeat submissions to the Bank to about 40
days, down from an average of 103 days under DRI II. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the shorter processing time would be
maintained for the purposes of the iDIP (para. 6.01 (a)).



III.   THE PROJECT
3.01     The RDIP (the Project) was prepared by DRI with support from the
Bank and the IDB. Preparation missions visited Colombia during February
and May 1989 and the Bank and IDB jointly appraised the RDIP in November
1989. Negotiations took place during May 7-11, 1990, in Washington, and
the Government team was led by Dra. D. Young, Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.02     In light of the successful experience with the DRI projects, the
Government decided in the late 19808 to expand the program's coverage the
whole country and to make the program's content and DRI's responsibilities
consistent with the 1986-89 decentralization reforms. The Bank's support
for the RDIP fits well with its strategy for helping the Government to
alleviate poverty, especially through assisting municipalities to become
more self-reliant (Annex 1).
Background.
3.03     In 1988, the Government requested the Bank and the IDB to help
prepare and cofinance the proposed RDIP with a view toward helping it to:
(i) sustain the positive results achieved under the DRI projects in 332
municipalities during 1977 to 1990, as noted in para. 2.08 (a) and (b)
above; (ii) incorporate 270 new municipalities into the program while
continuing to assist the 332 municipalities for a grand total of 602
municipalities encompassing about 9,000 rural communities; and
(iii) implement the 1986 to 1989 decentralization reforms whereby, in
contrast to the previous DRI projects (under which all funding for rural
investment came through central line agencies' budgets without the direct
participation of the municipalities), DRI would now cofinance projects with
municipalities which would receive 502 funding from the Value Added Tax
(IVA) transfers by 1992. Municipalities must earmark 22 of the IVA
transfers annually for rural development projects. The projected level of
the IVA transfers to the participating municipalities is adequate to cover
the cofinancing counterpart funds for the RDIP. The proposed RDIP would
encompass rural roads, water supply, sanitation and extension services, as
well as rural markets, watershed management and environmental protection,
fisheries and rural women's projects, which DRI would cofinance with the
municipalities. With respect to extension, the decentralization reforms
require that the municipalities provide such services by 1992 either
through the establishment of their own Technical Assistance Units (TAU)
and/or by hiring specialized organizations in this field, such as, ICA, the
Agricultural Industrial and Mining Credit Bank (Caja Agraria),
universities, etc. In the meantime, between 1990 and 1992, ICA would
continue to provide extension under the RDIP (para. 3.13(b)). By 1992,
however, the reforms require that ICA give up extenaion functions in order
to concentrate on research and technology transfer. The Bank is helping
the Government to establish a national technology transfer, and extension
system, which would strengthen ICA's role in providing technology to
municipal extension services through applied research centers (CRECEDs) and
also provide a mechanism for the Ministry of Agriculture to monitor and



-9-
ensure the quality of municipal extension services. For the past two
years, DRI has worked jointly with elected officials and community leaders
to establish operational, financial, institutional and a legal framework
for the execution of the RDIP. This process has resulted in the
introduction of new instruments under the RDIP for grassroots participation
in the identification of projects (through preparation of Community
Profiles), as well as strengthening DRI's management capabilities through
the introduction of a couprehensive Operational Manual and Annual
Investment and Operating Plans. These instruments are reviewed in more
detail in paras. 3.07, 3.08 and 3.09. Finally, DRI has been restructured
and the number of its professional staff has been increased to enable it to
carry out its new responsibility under the RDIP. This is reviewed in
detail in paras. 4.01 through 4.06.
3.04     Over 4,500 of the approximately 9,000 rural communities have
already benefited in some manner from the two previously mentioned Bank-
financed DRI projects. DRI would continue to help them as well, and about
4,500 new comunities to be phased in under the RDIP during the next five
years. The list of the 602 DRI municipalities (9,000 communities) selected
to benefit from the RDIP is given in Annex 2. The Government included
these cow unities in the RDIP because of their promising agricultural
productivity as well as their needs for roads, market places, water supply
and sanitation services. Additional municipalities not listed in Annex 2
could be incorporated in the RDIP and those already in the program could be
phased out on the basis of the agreed selection criteria in the Operational
Manual after consultation with the Bank. The selection criteria of the 602
municipalities is detailed in Annex 3. Only about 30 DRI communities
currently in the National Rehabilitation Program (PNR), would be eligible
to receive assistance under the RDIP. The PNR focuses more on alleviating
social problems in some 266 of the more remote and sparsely populated
municipalities in Colombia.
Project Obiectives
3.05     As noted in para. 3.02 above, the RDIP would support the Bank's
strategy for poverty alleviation. To this end, the overall objectives of
the proposed RDIP, are to: (a) increase the income of about 280,000 poor
farmers and fishermen in approximately 9,000 rural communities mainly in
the Andean and coastal areas; (b) improve living standards of the rural
communities through provision of potable water and better sanitation
systems, roads and marketing facilities; (c) protect and develop watershed
areas to safeguard the environment and help ensure sustainable supplies of
clean water for drinking and irrigation; (d) promote grassroot involvement
of rural communities in the identification of investment needs and the
maintenance thereof; and (e) strengthen DRI's capabilities to plan,
prepare, appraise and supervise projects and help the municipalities to
administer and cofinance development projects to support the
decentralization reforms. The RDIP like its predecessor, DRI I and II
Projects, would essentially continue to focus on improving production by
helping poor farmers and fishermen make more efficient use of resources.
The RDIP target group are farmers and fishermen who have the potential to
become agricultural entrepreneurs, and except for the fishermen, are
defined as those who derive at least 702 of their income from agriculture
and whose total farm assets are the equivalent of 300 minfimum monthly
salaries (presently valued at approximately US$25,000 equivalent).



_ 10 -
Proiect Descrintion
3.06     The RDIP Area.  The RDIP would concentrate ons  (a) the Andean
region, which for the purpose of the RDIP accounts for over 800,000 people
or 802 of the potential beneficiaries; (b) the coastal plain, accounting
for over 100,000 people or 102 of the beneficiariest and (c) along the
Atlantic and Pacific coast. as well as along the Magdalena river, where
there are some 120,000 poor fishermen. The Andean region consists of 491
municipalities and 15 departments, while the coastal area includes 111
municipalities and 7 departments.
Arranaements For Identifing. PreDaring. Budietint, and Cofinancina of
Prolects under the RDIP
3.07.    The Role of DRI and the Communities in Identifvint and Processint
Proiects for Inclusion in the RDIP.   The rural communities would identify
potential projects for RDIP by preparing detailed community profiles (Ficha
Veredal). Already some communities have prepared initial profiles with
funds from the DRI II Project (Loan 2174-CO) and the remaining communities
would prepare profiles starting in 1990, with financing from the RDIP. DRI
plans to repeat the preparation of the community profiles once every four
to five years so as to provide the RDIP with an evolving picture of
development needs. Many of the projects to be financed under the RDIP in
1990 (see para. 3.25) have been identified through this process. The
profiles are essentially snapshots of the social and economic problems and
investment needs of each community. Preparation of the community profiles
involves consultation with all the famLlies in each comunity and then
taking up specific project proposals with the mayors and members of the
Municipal Council, as well as the potential leaders at the departmental
level. Typically, in each of the 9,000 rural communities there is a DRI
Committee and their selected leaders carry on the dialogue with elected
officials from the municipalities and departments, until agreement is
reached on priorities between competing demands. The Profiles are then
reviewed by the Regional DRI Comittees. This interchange leads to a list
of project ideas, emanating from the communities, which is then registered
in the Municipal Bank of Projects in each of the 602 municipalities for
possible funding under the RDIP.
3.08     DRI's operations office in Bogota, in conjunction with regional
staff, would review, as it did during the preparation of the 1990 program
(para. 3.11), each project profile submitted by the municipalities using
the eligibility criteria in the Operational Manual to determine which
projects are ready for cofinancing and executing and which require
additional studies and preparation. The Bank has appraised the Operational
Manual and found it to be satisfactory. The Operational Manual sets out
DRI's policies, and technical and economic requirements which projects must
meet to be eligible for inclusion in the RDIP. The Manual covers, among
other aspects, the following: (a) selection criteria of projects in terms
of their overall eligibility and their economic impact; (b) technical,
economic and cost parametern, as well as the qualifications of executing
agencies for implementation of projects; (c) procurement and administrative
guidelines; and (d) maintenance and cost recovery requirements. The
eligibility criteria specify which of the projects require detailed
technical, financial and economic studies and those requiring only detailed



- 11 -
proposals in order to qualify for cofinancing from DRI. Accordingly,
Watershed Management and Environmental Protection, Regional Marketing
Service Centers (CESCOS), and Small-scale Fishery Service Centers (CESPAS),
Rural Roads and Vater Supply and Sanitation projects all require full
feasibility studies, and except for the Watershed Management projects also
design studies. Projects concerning, Technology Adaptation and Extension,
Training and Community Organization; Rural Women; Aquaculturet and
Strengthening of DRI and the municipalities, require only submission of
detailed proposals, an economic analysis of cost benefits in the case of
Technology Adaptation and Extension, and financial analyses for the
Aquaculture projects. DRI staff would prepare the terms of reference for
carrying out the feasibility and design studies, using the eligibility
criteria as guidelines. DRI would select consultants, on the basis of the
Bank's guidelines for the studies, and also supervise execution. Financing
for such studies is provided under Strengthening of DRI and the
Municipalities (Preinvestment Studies, para. 3.24). The Preinvestment
Committee referred in para. 4.06 (d) below, would manage the process of
preparation of the terms of reference and selection of consultants under
the leadership of the RDIP Coordinator. DRI would be responsible for
contacting the municipalities and other potential financing partners, once
the relevant studies have been completed in order to firm up financing
plans for each project in the AOP, as discussed in para. 3.09 and 3.10
below.
3.09     Preparation of the Budget for the RDIP Proiects and the Avnroval
System. Concurrent with the identification and preparation of projects, as
described in paras. 3.07 and 3.08 above, the Government, DRI, the
municipalities and other agencies work together in preparing the budgets
for these projects so they could be included in the Annual Investment Plan
and the Annual Operating Plan (AOP) for cofinancing under the RDIP. The
following describes the sequence of events in this process. Further
details are given in Annex 4.
(a)   Planning commences in November, 14 months prior to the year for
which the Annual Investment and Operating Plans are being prepared
on the basis of indicative budget ceilings provided by DNP;
(b)   DRI's Planning Office, in coordination with DRI Regional Offices,
screens Community Profiles (Municipal Investment List) and submits
an Annual Investment Plan to the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) for
inclusion in the Ministry's budget, which is then submitted to DNP
and the National Council for Social and Economic Policy (CONPES)
in April;
(c)   by mid-June, CONPES approves the Annual Investment Plan
provisionally, and the MOA allots DRI its budget for the next
year. DRI then informs the municipalities of the sums it would
earmark for cofinancing projects included in the Annual Investment
Plang
(d)  with budgetary information as to their own resources and that from
DRI, the municipalities adjust their investment programs for
resubmission to their respective Municipal Councils;



_ 12 -
(e) by June 20, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) submits CONPES's
provisional budget (including RDIP projects) for approval by
Congress (due in November);
(f)   by mid-August, the MOP informs DRI and the municipalities of their
provisional budgetary allocations, including their share of
tentative IVA taxesg
(g)   by October, DRI submits the AOP to the MOP (which it prepares
between March-October) and which expands on the Annual Investment
Plans by detailing the individual projects, their cost and
implementation aspects; and
(h)   in November, Congress approves the budget and MOF then authorizes
the budget for DRI by mid-December.
3.10     Cost Sharing Arrangements for Cofinancina of Proiects under the
RDIP. The AOP, noted in para. 3.09, would describe briefly the status of
preparation of each project and identify tentative sources of financing, be
they from DRI, the municipalities, or other Government entities, NGOs, etc.
The bulk of, the cofinancing for roads, water supply and sanitation projects
under the RDIP would be from DRI and the municipalities (IVA). For the
other projects in the RDIP, DRI is expected to tap a wide range of
potential cofinancing partners, including Government and non-Governmental
entities, universities, Coffee Growers Associations, Regional Development
'Corporations, etc. To make it easier to conclude cofinancing arrangements
for each project to be financed under the RDIP, DRI has developed a
Cofinancing Matrix (CM) as well as standardized cofinancing contract. The
CM lists the percentages of DRI's contribution, in the form of grants,
towards the cost of each project (Annex 5). DRI's share of cofinancing
with the municipalities under the RDIP would depend on the type of project
and the priority needs of the municipalities as identified in the selection
criteria mentioned in para. 3.04 above. The cost sharing arrangements for
cofinancing each project under the RDIP provide that the municipalities
would use 2Z of the IVA allocation to cofinance DRI projects in extension,
roads, water supply and sanitation. Annex 6 discusses the arrangements
already in place for transferring IVA to the municipalities. The criteria
used for selecting the municipalities (para. 3.04 and the (M), take into
consideration the specific needs of each municipality, and aiso reflect
DRI's policy of being the lender of last resort. As the municipalities
become financially stronger, and improve their creditworthiness, levels of
funding from DRI would decrease according to a graduation policy to be put
into effect under the RDIP. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the DNP woulds (a) undertake a study by August 1991 to develop a
graduation policy for phasing out municipalities as they become more
economically developed; (b) submit the report and recommendations to the
Bank for comments by January 31, 1992; and (c) ensure that DRI shall
introduce the Graduation Policy by'September 30, 1992 (para. 6.01 (b)).
3.11     Inclusion of RDIP Proiects in the AOP.  As noted in para. 3.08
above, DRI has already used the consultation process with the communities
and municipalities to prepare a pipeline of projects for 1990, and these
projects are listed in the 1990 AOP (para. 3.25 and Annex 7). The Bank has
appraised DRT's 1990 AOP on the basis of a representative sample of typical



-.13 -
projects and found it satisfactory. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that DRI would submit an AOP to the Bank for review and
comment by September 30 of each year, and that inter alia, the AOP would
detail the status of preparation, tentative cost of projects and those
requiring further studies, as well as identify which projects would require
environmental studies. The AOP would include only projects in areas where
security considerations would not impede normal Bank supervision of such
projects (para. 6.01 (c)).
Profiles of Proiects to be Cofinanced under the RDIP
3.12     rrofiles of typical projects to be cofinanced under the RDIP in
1990-1994 are given below and are detailed in the respective working
documents (Working Papers No. 1 through 12) listed in Annex 18. Other
types of projects not listed below could be included in the RDIP in the
future, provided they support agricultural development and that
implementation arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
3.13     Applied Technoloav Development and Extension.  These would consist
of three types of projects supporting improved agricultural practicess
(a) technology adaptation to farmers' needs; (b) extension; and
(c) training:
(a) Technology Adaptation Proiects. The purpose of these projects
would be to adapt the technology generated at ICA's research
stations to the agroecological and socialleconomic conditions of
the RDIP farmers on the basis of the Zonal Plans for Technological
Development (ZPTD) (Annex 8). This would be done by CRECEDs, 33
of which are currently located in the DRI areas. Another 19
CRECEDs would be established by ICA during the project period.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government,
that ICA would: (a) submit by September 30, 1990 a plan of action
and timetable, satisfactory to the Bank for establishing the
additional 19 CRECEDS; and (b) thereafter implement the action
plan (para. 6.01 (d)). A typical CRECED consists of a Board of
Directors and an Advisory Committee with representatives from DRI,
plus four technical units (Research, Technology Transfer,
Agricultural Services and Monitoring and Evaluation), and one
Administrative Unit. The CRECED staff would prepare the ZPTD
which would identify the main agroeconomic problems in each CRECED
area and the technology would be developed and demonstrated to
farmers and extension agents through various means (field days,
pamphlets etc.). RDIP would cofinance with ICA the CRECED's cost
of preparing the ZPTD and for carrying out on-farm trials and
demonstrations. The ZPTD would include a costing of each applied
technology development project, specifying the number of
participating farmers and crop area to be covered. Municipalities
would also use the ZPTD information to develop their Municipal
Plans which would specify the work program and cost of
agricultural extension and supporting investment for each rural
community (see (b) below). The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of
the CRECED would evaluate the impact of the new technology on
yields and production as the basis for developiag further applied
technology. For planning purposes it is expected that each CRECED
would carry out 30 trials, per year, per community, with an
average cost of US$960 equivalent;



- 14 _
(b)   Agricultural Extension.  To ensure availability of extension
services. DRI has signed a contract with ICA for provision of
technology adaptation, extension and training services during the
transition period between 1990 and until 1992. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would submit for
the Bank's comments by September 30, 1991. a plan of action and
the timetable fort (a) phasing ICA out of extension by 1992; and
(b) maintaining arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
providing extension to RDIP beneficiaries (para. 6.01 (e)).
Decree 1946 (1989) has established a National Agricultural
Technology Transfer System in the Ministry of Agriculture to
rationalize the national extension services and to improve the
effectiveness of technology adaptation and transfer in Colombia.
The Bank is assisting in the preparation of a project (Technology
Transfer and Extension) to support this system, and the
arrangements for provision of effective extension services to be
supported under the RDIP, including the above-mentioned action
plan should be ready well before September 1991. The Bank's
support for the national extension and technology system would
also ensure that arrangements for provision of extension and
technology adaptation would be consistent with the criteria set
out in Decree 1946. CRECEDeIICA currently have suitable
technology packages for extension services to offer farmers to
enable them to increase yields in some crops and areas well above
those in use by farmers in DRI areas. A sample of the potential
yields which could be obtained under the RDIP is provided, for
illustrative purposes, in Annex 9. The staffing requirements for
provision of extension under the RDIP have been calculated
assuming a ratio of farmers to extensionists of 250:1 in 1990
reducing to 150s1 in 1994. The ratio of subject-matter
specialists to extensionists would be 1s4 in 1990 decreasing to
1:6 in 1994. For planning purposes, it is estimated that about
280,000 farmers would receive extension under the RDIP. The
average cost of providing extension per farmer per year would be
around US$60 equivalent; and
(c)   Trainina.  The RDIP would cofinance with eligible organizations,
such as ICA, the National Institute for Renewable Natural
Resources (INDERENA), and the National Apprenticeship Services
(SENA), training programs for SENA instructors, agricultural
subject-matter specialists and some 1,870 extension technicians.
Such training would include technology adaptation aspects,
extension methodology, watershed management, fisheries development
and marketing. These training programs would complement other
more general courses for farmers, fishermen, community promoters,
rural women, marketing agents and DRl community organizations
(para. 3.19 and Annex 10). For planning purposes, some 1,218
subject-matter specialists and 1,870 extensionists are expected to
be trained over the five years of the RDIP, and it is tentatively
estimated that the specialized training would cost around US$1,200
per course.
3.14     Watershed Management and Environmental Protection.  The RDIP would
cofinance watershed management and environmental protection projects with
eligible organizations, mainly regional development corporations, coffee



- 15 -
produ^er committees, and departmental secretariats. These projects,
located mainly in the Andean zone, would include investments to:
ti) protect soils and vegetation in critical catchment areas to reduce
erosion and help ensure that municipalities would have sustainable water
for drinking and irrigations and (ii) increase the sustainability of
agricultural production through the application of environmentally sound
agroforestry and soil conservation technologies by poor farmers living
around catchment areas.
3.15     Typically, watershed management projects would cover an area of
about 7,000 ha involving about 1,500 beneficiaries living in the area of
immediate influenee of the watershed. But over 32,000 people living in
contiguous zones would benefit, depending on each watershed area. Eligible
items to be cofinanced under such projects would depend on the problems
identified, but it is expected that typical investments would include the
establisbment of agroforestry production systems, management and protection
of natural forests, revegetation of deteriorated areas, and small
conservation works for water and soil protection together with training and
extension. RDIP would cofinance studies to prepare watershed management
plans which would identify the problems and the investments and technical
assistance needed to solve them. Consulting services would be cofinanced
to ensure effective management of these projects along with the
establishment of monitoring and evaluation systems by the implementing
agencies. For planning purposes, it is estimated that the RDIP would
cofinance projects covering about 84,000 ha and benefit directly or
indirectly over 380,000 inhabitants in and around the small catchment areas
in the A4dean zone. Such watershed management projects to be developed
over 4 to 5 years, would cost on average about US$1.0 million equivalent
each.
3.16     Fisheries.  The RDIP would cofinance two types of fishery
projects: (a) Aquaculture; and (b) CESPAS. For the apuaculture Drojects,
the RDIP would contract eligible executing agencies, mainly, the National
Fisheries Institute (INP), universities and regional development
corporations to supply fingerlings and technology to help RDIP
beneficiaries construct and manage their fish ponds efficiently. The cost
of such contracts would includes (a) improvements and equipment to ensure
sufficient supply of fingerlings from eight existing hatcheries;
(b) training of subject-matter specialists and extensionists;
(c) technology development, adaptation and research; and (d) technical
assistance to farmers in fishpond construction and fish rearing and
harvesting. The farmers would pay for all farm expenses, i.e.,
construction of the ponds, cost of fingerlings, and feed. For planning
purposes, the cost of constructing fishponds, plus inputs would be in the
range of US$500 equivalent.
3.17     For the CESPAS proiects, she RDIP would cofinance with specialized
Government agencies and NGOs, integrated projects consisting of management
and technical assistance services, equipment, and civil works. To be
eligible for cofinancing from the RDIP, fishermen would need to form
themselves into effective associations. To assist in this, training would
be provided under the RDIP in marketing, technical aspects and management.
To this end, it is expected that the RDIP would cofinance with eligible
organizations to promote formation and training of fisherman associations.
The most actively involved organizations w6uld bet (i) the National



- 16 -
Association of Artisan Fishermen (ANPAC) to help promote formation of
fishermen associations and monitor their progress; (ii) the Corporation
Fund Associative Enterprises (CORPAS), an NGO, to organize the fishermen
into producer and marketing associations; (iii) INP to help in the
management of CESPAS; and (iv) depending on the needs of each CESPAS, the
Colombian Company for Perishable Products (ENCOPER) for installing and
operating cold storage equipment and provision of technical assistance for
marketing. Typical investments for CESPAS would consist of simple
facilities for landing, storing and marketing of fish, and technical
assistance. Some 13 potential CESPAS projects have been identified by DRI,
of which three have started operations in 1989, and two more are currently
under construction. Since CESPAS is a part of a national program for
helping fishermen, mainly in the Pacific coastal zones, some CESPAS's may
not necessarily be located in the 602 DRI municipalities. Because DRI is
already financing five CESPAS with funds not earmarked by the Government
for the RDIP, it would not need Bank financing for 1990 and 1991.
Furthermore, because of the inherent difficulties in organizing these
fishermen into producer associations and preparing them to manage CESPAS,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that DRI would not include in
the AOP new projects until the five CESPAS projects have been evaluated.
The evaluation, inter alia, would show the viability of each project and
mechanism for recovering the operation and maintenance costs to sustain
these projects (para. 6.01 (f)). In order for the assessment to be
meaningful, CESPAS projects would need to have been in operation for at
least two years. Eligible fishermen would, however, have access in
1990-1991 to training under Training and Community Organization Projects
(para. 3.19). For planning purposes, it is estimated that a typical CESPAS
would involve training, technical assistance, equipment and civil works
costing between US$0.5-1.0 million.
3.18     CESCOS.  Marketing projects would support programs to construct
and equip facilities in rural areas for marketing of food produced by poor
farmers. Under the DRI I and 11 Projects, some 452 producers marketing
organizations were established, of which 30 are regional entities, and
about 180 are farm cooperatives. Furthermore, DRI has been instrumental in
promoting the establishment of 22 associations of retail distributors/
shopkeeper chains, which include about 253 stores and retail outlets in
rural areas. Rural markets are part of a national marketing network
consisting of CESCOS which DRI would cofinance under the RDIP. The
CESCOS's are typically found in centrally located municipalities, in a
rural region compri;;ng 8 to 12 municipalities. Although CESCOS projects
may actually be constructed outside the 602 DRI municipalities, they would
service RDIP beneficiaries. The RDIP would cofinance CESCOS projects with
marketing associations, municipalities and local organizations for the
construction of collection centers, store houses and trading areas,
processing equipment, as well as milk collection minicenters. Facilities
for the CESCOS constructed by the municipalities, under the RDIP, would be
contracted out to the private sector to be managed and operated in such a
manner as to cover at least full operation and maintenance (O&M) costs.
Because the CESCOS program is new and DRI has yet to acquire experience
with such projects, assurances were obtained during negotiations that DRI
would not include in the AOP, new marketing projects until the CESCOS
projects to be financed by DRI iu 1990 and 1991 have been evaluated
satisfactorily to the Bank. The evaluation, inter alia would show the
viability of each projet and mechanism for recovering the O&M costs to



-17-
sustain each CESCOS project (para. 6.01 (f)). In order for the assessment
to be meaningful, the CESCOS projects would need to have been in operation
for at least two years. In addition to civil works and equipment, RDIP
would also cofinance promotional activities and technical assistance to
reduce post harvest losses and Smprove the quality of products. Technical
assistance for this purpoes would be obtained from the Research Center for
Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) and others, as under earlier DRI projects.
Marketing cooperatives and associitions, as well as marketing agents, would
have access to training related to marketing under the RDIP in 1990 and
1991 (under the Training and Community Organization Projects (para. 3.19).
Retailers and wholesalers handling essential staple food under the
responsibility of DRI would have access to technical assistance and
training under the RDIP. For planning purposes, it is estimated that the
average cost of a marketing center would be about US$0.5 million;
constructing a warehouse would be around US$0.6 million; and a small single
plant for storing milk would be about US$2,000.
3.19     Trainina and Community Oraanization Projects.  DRI would cofinance
a range of training programs designed to develop community promoters to
help organize DRI committees at the community, municipal and departmental
levels, entrepreneurial skills, and courses in support of specific
projects. yor instance, specific courses would be given on how communities
can organize themselves to maintain roads in their jurisdiction, provide
agricultural extension, introduce watershed management techniques, protect
their environment, manage marketing centers, and form and manage rural
cooperatives or producers' associations, and how to bid for civil works in
connection with rural roads, water supply and sanitation systems.
3.20     Rural Women's proiects.  The RDIP would cofinance special training
and technical assistance programs with agencies such as ICA, SERA, the
Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA) and some NG0s to help
women groups form viable associations and establish small cottage
enterprises, small restaurants, and fruit stalls. The RDIP would finance
feasibility studies (para. 3.24) to help women's groups to prepare
technically and financially sound income generating proposals so they could
apply for credit for equipment, marketing etc., which would be provided
through the Revolving Credit Fund for the Association of Rural Women
(PRCAMC), the credit arm of CORFAS. Past experience with such programs has
been very positive. ICA and INCORA have provided integrated technical
assistance to over 17,000 women (approximately 800 groups) during 1984-1988
in DRI municipalities. CORPAS has similarly supported 31 groups with 340
beneficiaries. Overall, approximately 19,000 women (900 women's groups)
have been assisted to date. The RDIP would continue these efforts by
financing in 1990 training and technical assistance for 370 existing
women's groups (part of the above-mentioned 900 women groups). An
additional 130 vomen's groups would be expected to receive assistance
through 1994. For planning purposes, it is estimated that the average cost
of a training and technical assistance project would be roughly about
US$1,200 per course. The Bank has approved financing of Rural Women's
Projects listed in the 1990 AOP. However, in order to ensure that the RDIP
would continue to assist only needy groups, and that the women's grct1ps who
have already received adequate assistance under previous programs would be
phased out of the RDIP, an assurance was obtained during negotiations that
DRI would not include such projects in the 1991 AOP, until such time that
it would complete a socioeconomic needs assessment survey of the women's



- 18 _
groups already formed, and submit an action plan satisfactory to the Bank,
for providing additional asslstance and/or for phasing out those groups
which have already been helped and therefore could obtain financing from
other sources. Terms of reference for this study have been approved awd a
draft report is expected in October 1990 (para. 6.01 (f)).
3.21     Rural Roads.   The RDIP would cofinance with municipalities
construction of rural roads, for connecting agricultural production centers
with marketing centers. For planning purposes, it is estimated that DRI
would cofinance the cost of designing, constructing and supervising some
261 roads with a total length of about 1,825 km. About 131 roads would be
new, with a total length of 300 km; 65 roads would require major
improvements of 516 km, and 65 roads would need minor improvements of
509 km. It is tentatively estimated that over 702 of all the roads would
be less than 10 k1  in length, and about 202 would be between 10 km and 25
km. For planning purposes, it is estimated that the average cost of
construction of new roads would be roughly US$49,000 per km, US$29,000 per
km for major road improvements and US$13,000 per km for minor improvements.
3.22     In order to ensure a consistent approach with the procedures
established under the Second Rural Roads Sector Project (Loan 3157-CO), DRI
has agreed with the National Fund for Feeder Roads (FNCV) that it would use
the same methodology for evaluating roads to be cofinanced under the RDIP
(Letter of Agreement, FNCV-DBI dated November 8, 1989). To ensure adequate
maintenance of roads, assurances were obtained during negotiations, that
DRI would require that municipalities allocate and spend a fixed percentage
of the cost of each road, on the basis of a road maintenance program, which
would be prepared and costed during the design stage for each road project
to be financed under the RDIP. Average estimates of expenditure for
maintenances is 4X. The estimate of 42 equivalent has been calculated on
the basis of methodology used by FNCV and is spelled out in document No. 33
listed in Annex 18. The procedures for calculating the percentages for
road maintenance under the RDIP are spelled out in the Supplemental Letter
which is attached as Appendis A. DRI's policy concerning road maintenance
has been incorporated in the DPI's Operational Manual and the requirement
for earmarking funds for the agreed level of maintenance would be detailed
in the cofinancing and execution contracts for each road project under the
RDIP. Municipalities which fail to maintain their roads would not be
eligible to receive financing for new roads and related agricultural
production projects (technology adaptation and extension, including
marketing) in subsequent years. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations (para. 6.01) (g)). Municipalities that fail to
maintain roads would become eligible to present new projects for
cofinancing under the RDIP only after taking corrective actions.
3.23     Water Supoly and Sanitation.   For planning purposes, it is
estimated that the RDIP would cofinance with municipalities the
construction of about 300 small water supply systems, and about 160
projects for improvement and expansion of existing water systems and
sanitation projects in about 220-localities. Water supply ano sanitation
projects would be restricted to small rural communities with a maximum of
2,500 inhabitants. Typical water supply systems constructed under the RDIP
would serve rural communities with an average of 960 people. Overall the
water supply and sanitation projects are expected to benefit about 440,000
people. For pLUning purposes, the average cost of a typical water supply
system serving about 960 people is estimated to cost US$80,000, a smaller



- 19 -
gravity system serviAg about 320 people is estimated to cost US$15,000, and
a large new pumping system serving over 4,000 people, is estimated to cost
US$160,000. The sanitation projects would consist mainly of simple pit
privies, each costing about US$120 equivalent. For the same reasons given
above, para. 3.22 (roads) DRI signed a Letter of Agreement (February 6,
1990) with the Fund for Financing Urban Development (FPDU), acceptable to
the Bank, to ensure that the same technical and economic criteria used
under the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project (Loan 2961-CO) would be
applied in selecting and cofinancing projects for water supply and
sanitation under the RDIP. The Letter of Agreement also spells out the
institutional arrangements (compatible with the ongoing Water Project),
which would be used under the RDIP for organizing the small rural
communities for construction, and OWM of water projects. These aspects
have been incorporated into the eligibility criteria for water supply and
sanitation projects. Because of the planned merger of the FFDU into the
Territorial Financing Development Organization (FDT), under the proposed
Municipal Sector Development Project, under preparation by the Bank. an
assurance was obtained during negotiations from the Government that
arrangements stipulated in the above-mentioned Letter of Agreement would be
maintained throughout the life of the RDIP (para. 6.01 (h)).
3.24     Strenathenina of DRI and the Municipalities.  The RDIP would
finance consultants to help DRI with the following main activities:
install and manage the accounting, budgetary, legal and monitoring systems,
along with associated equipment and supporting software, vehicles and
training of DRI staff, carry out the baseline and impact evaluation
studies, the Graduation Policy, the Program Review, as well as other
priority studies to be proposed to the Bank in the future. This technical
assistance would strengthen DRI's capacity to coordinate and manage the
implementation of the RDIP. Financing under the RDIP would complement
extensive funding of consultants and equipment provided under the ongoing
DRI II Project. DRI has already appointed consultants to introduce
improved systems to enable the Bogota and the regional offices of DRI to
plan and supervise the implementation of the RDIP. The bulk of RDIP
financing for the municipalities would be for preinvestment studies
(preparation of projects for inclusion in tAe RDIP (1991-1994)), but some
limited training and technical assistance could be provided if necessary.
The reason why the municipalities are not likely to require special
assistance under the RDIP, is that they have already made, since the
decentralization reforms have been announced, special arrangements with the
Departmental Secretariats, local universities, the Superior School for
Public Administration (ESAP), and with private consultants to help
strengthen their planning and administrative capacity of investment
projects. However, the RDIP has built-in flexibility to provide such
assistance, if needed, but this would be done on a case-by-case basis. The
training and technical assistance for the municipalities would be
coordinated with the above-mentioned Municipal Development Project.
3.25     Status of Prenarations The 1990 Proaram.  The 1990 AOP consists of
5,211 investment projectsltechnical assistance and training courses for a
total of US$46 million as follows: 279 technology adaptation and extension
projects (US$13.3 million); 3 watershed management and environmental
protection projects (US$1.0 million); e aquaculture projects
(US$0.9 million); 4,260 training events for communities officials from the
municipalities and local marketing agents (US$3.3 million); 370 rural



- 20 -
women's projects (US$1.5 million); training of DRI staff (US$0.08 million);
208 training courses for professionals in technology adaptation and
extension (US$0.5 million); 42 rural roads projects (US$12 million)t 41
water supply and sanitation projects (US$10.8 million); and technical
assistance and preinvestment studies (US$3.0 million) for preparation of
projects for inclusion in the 1991-1994 RDIP investment program.
3.26     Although agricultural credit wou:d not be financed under the RDIP,
the credit system has been reviewed and it has been confirmed that there is
an adequate supply of funds in the financial system to meet the demand for
RDIP beneficiaries (Annex 11). Estimates indicate that the projected
maximum level of 280,000 RDIP beneficiaries would require about Col$ 28
billion in new loans per year by 1993, representing about 7? of the total
rural portfolio available. Therefore, no external financing for credit
would be required under the project. DRI would obtain information on the
availability of credit for its beneficiaries through the National System
for Agricultural Credit (SNCA) which is expected to be operational in 1991.
3.27     Complementary discussions are underway between the Bank and
Government in the area of financial sector reform to increase competition
and efficiency; increase the ability of the financial system to mobilize
resources and channel private savings into productive investment: and to
foster the development of long-term credit and capital markets. The
strategy for achieving these reforms is to focus on reducing the subsidized
directed credit and eliminating the mandatory investments required of
financial institutions. The program of reform under discussion with
Government involves adjustment of interest rates to market levels, rather
than on reductions in the volume of directed credit, since the financial
sector distortions arise mainly from dispersion between directed and free
market interest rates. Equality of rates is expected to promote the
development of private long-term credit markets. More specifically, the
strategy for the adjustment of the structure of interest rates on directed
credit includess (i) for the few remaining directed credit lines that
still carry fixed interest rates, linking rates to final borrowers to a
market reference rate (DTF); (ii) calculation and explicit recognition of
the subsidy element inherent in each line of credit and for each of the
subsectors; (iii) reduction in the variance of interest rates to final
borrowers across lines and across sectors; and (iv) semi-annual or annual
adjustments of interest rates to final borrowers over a four-year period to
market rates (i.e, to commercial lending rates for loans of similar
maturity and risk). Once directed credit rates to final beneficiaries are
equal to market rates, the strategy would be to allow financial
intermediaries to set their own margins on directed credit according to
intermediation costs and risk.
Proiect Costs
3.28     Total project costs are estimated at US$250.0 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$122.6 million, or 492 as summarized
below (para. 3.29) and deta.led in Annex 12. The cost figures shown for
each of the projects in Aanex 12 are estimates and are provided for
planning purposes only. The final allocation would be determined by the
annual demand from the rural communities and munici.palities. Costs were
calculated using January 1990 prices and include physical contingencies of
5 for all components. Because of the cofinancing arrangement for the RDIP



_ 21 -
with IDB, Governmeut projections for local and international inflation were
used (Annex 13). These projections are very similar to those of the Bank,
and provide for price contingencies of US$26.1 million (10.41 of project
cost). Physical and price contingencies together total US$36.8 million, or
14.72 of total project costs. An estimated Wq$12.5.million of local and
other taxes are included in project costs.
Proiect Financinn
3.29    'The proposed Bank loan of US$75.0 million would finance 302 of
total project costs, 502 of the project's incremental foreign exchange
costs and 11 of local costs. The balance of project costs would be
parallel financed by IDB, US$75.0 million (302), national Government (DRI's
budget), US$37.6 million (or about 15.12); and municipalities and
participating agencies, US$62.5 million equivalent (or 252). The Republic
of Colombia would be the Borrower and bear the foreign exchange risk. The
Government would make available the proceeds of the loan to DRI as a grant
and DRI would pass it on to the municipalities also on a grant basis.
Procurement
3.30     Procurement of goods, works and contracting of services financed
by the Bank under the project would follow Bank procurement guidelines.
These guidelines have been incorporated in DRI's Operational Manual, which
would be used by municipalities and other implementing agencies as the
basis for procurement made under the RDIP, including the cofinancing
contracts between DRI and participating municipalities and agencies.
Contracts for vehicles and eauilment are expected to be individually small,
and consequently no ICB operations are foreseen; however, should the
situation arise, ICB procedures would be required for contracts exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent and would be subject to ex-ante review according to
Bank guidelines. Contracts for equipment and vehicles valued between
US$25,000 and US$200,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of US$0.7 million,
would follow LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Minor equipment
valued at less than US$25,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of
US$0.2 million, would be purchased on the basis of price quotations from at
least three eligible suppliers. Civil works, including engineering design,
are expected to be individually small, geographically dispersed and spread
out over time; they are therefore uzlikely to attract international firms.
Procurement of civil work contracts estimated to cost individually between
US$50,000 and US$1.0 million equivalent, up to an aggregate of
US$61.1 million, would be carried out under LCB procedures locally
advertised, acceptable to the Bank. Civil works contracts estimated to
cost less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$5.8 million, would be
awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited from at least three
qualified local contractors.  If any civil works contract should exceed
US$1.0 million equivalent, ICB procedures will be required.
3.31     The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance would be consistent with the August 1981 Ban
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency. During negotiations assurances were
obtained thats (i) DRI and the municipalities and other eligible agencies
would follow the procurement procedures outlined above; (ii) DRI would
submit sample bidding documents for ICB and LCB for goods ard works for



- 22 -
Bank approval; and (iii) prior to authorization of disbursements, DRI would
submit for Bank%review all procurement documentation related to ICB, and
the documentation for the first two LCB operations for both goods and civil
works (para. 6.01 (i)). Customary provisions taking into account
discrepancies between local legislation and Bank guidelines for ICB and LCB
have been incorporated in the Loan and Project Agreemeats respectively.
3.32     Given the differences in procurement policies and procedures
between the Bank and the IDB, including the thresholds established by type
of procurement, DRI would apply the appropriate procedures for each
acquisition (i.e., the Bank or IDB's) as spelled out in the DRI's
Operational Manual.
3.33     Because contracts, involving about 602 municipalities and various
agencies, would be too small and numerous for effective  a-pu   review by
the Bank, such review would be delegated primarily to DRI, except in the
event of ICB operations as stated above and for civil works valued at, or
above, US$0.5 million equivalent. DRI would review all procurement
procedures. documents, bid evaluations and contract awards to ensure that
the agreed procurement process is properly carried out. However, in order
to ensure compliance with the procurement guidelines of the Bank, the
Program Review scheduled for 1991 (para. 4.08) would be required to certify
that procurement made under the RDIP is in accordance with the Bank
guidelines. Furthermore, the Bank would review contracts during
supervision on an ex-vost basis by sampling.
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Project Elements                      Procurement Method            Total Cost
ICB     LCB    Other    N.A.
-(US$ million)------
Cofinanced Investment Projects         104.5   124.6*    -             229.1
(61.1)   (5.8)                 (66.9)
Machinery and Equipment        -          1.0     1.5*                   2.5
(0.7)   (0.2)                  (0.9)
Technical Assistance           -         -       18.4*                  18.4
and Training                                     (7.2)                   (7.2)
Total                                 105.5   144.5                   250.0
(61.8)  (13.2)                 (75.0)
Note:
Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank.
* Includes amounts to be financed by IDB and procured under its own
procedures, and the Bank's shopping procedures.



- 23 -
Disbursements
3.34     The proposed Bank loan es US$75.0 million would be disbursed over
seven and one-half years, based on the standard disbursement profile
percentages for the Agricultural Sector in Colombia (except for the first
and last semesters due to the existence of the Special Account). The Bank
would reimburse DRI for expenses relate- to the institutional strengthening
of DRI and the municipalities (estimated at US$8.7 million), at a rate of
100? of foreign expenditures for equipment and vehicles, foreign
consultants and training; 70Z for locally procured vehicles and equipment
and 702 for local training and local consultants. DRI's cofinanced
investments with municipalities and agencies covering civil works,
equipment. technical assistance and training would be reimbursed at a rate
of 85X of DR14s share of contract costs (estimated at US$66.9 million).
All disbursements are expected to be made against statements of
expenditures, except for equipment contracts valued at US$200,000 or more
equivalent, and all civil works contracts valued at, or above, US$500,000
equivalent. The Bank and 1DB would disburse US$75.0 million each from
their respective loans. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
that DRI would retain the part Tassu provision for the duration of the
RDIP, and that DRI would review annually, each September, the status of
disbursements of both Banks to ensure that both the Bank and IDB loans
disburse at the same rate (para. 6.02 (j)). The participating
municipalities responsible for the procurement of goods and contracting of
services would maintain SOB documentation. Retroactive financing of up to
US$7.5 million for eligible expenditures made after January 1, 1990, would
be provided for under the loan. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1994. The Closing Date is December 31, 1995.
3.35     The Borrower would establish a Special Account in Banco de la
Republica, in US dollars, to cover eligible Bank expenditures under the
loan. A condition of effectiveness would be the signing of a Subsidiary
Agreement between the Borrower and DRI under tems and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (pars. 6.02 (a)). The Bank would deposit up to an
initial US$5 million (representing the average expected disbursement for a
four-month period in the project) upon receipt of an initial withdrawal
application. Subsequent replenishments by the Bank into the Special
Account would follow the normal procedures by which Bank funds would be
disbursed against actual expenditures.
Accounting and Auditing
3.36     As noted in para. 3.24, DRI's institutional strengthening provides
for developing in DRI an integrated system of accounts and control,
incorporating new procedures for financial management of projects
(including chart of accounts, accounting forms, consolidation procedures,
budgeting and budgetary control).
3.37     DRI would establish and maintain consolidated program accounts as
well as other records that are needed to account for RDIP costs and
financing. Similar separate accounts and records would be maintained by
participating municipalities and agencies. Cofinancing contracts with
municipalities and agencies would conform with the accounting and auditing
procedures as provided for in DRI's Operational Manual, based on the audit



- 24 -
requirements set out in Annex 14. Such accounting procedures would be
closely identified within DRI's accounting system and would be adequate to
monitor the financial transactions for the RDIP, including local and Bank
financing. The RDIP accounts, the special account, and related financial
information, including supporting documentation for SOEs would be audited
annually by the Government's Comptroller General in accordance with the
Banks' auditing guidelines. In addition, the Comptroller General would
carry out an audit of DRI's owu accounts. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that certified copies of the audited consolidated RDIP
accounts, audited special accounts in the Central Bank, including a
separate opinion on the use of SOEs and audited DRI financial statements,
would be submitted annually to the Bank not later than six months after the
close of the financial year, starting with the audit reports for the fiscal
year ending December 31, 1990 (para. 6.01 (k)). An assurance was also
obtained during negotiations that if the financial audits identify
significant irregularities in any participating municipality or agency, DRI
would suspend disbursements to thau party, and require special audits to be
carried out to ensure that these irregularities have been resolved before
disbursements are resumed (para. 6.01 (k)). These rules have been
reflected in DRI's Operational Manual.
IV. RDIP IMPLEMENTATION
The Executina Agency - DRI
4.01     Organizational Structure.  DRI is a decentralized agency of the
MOA, with its own legal structure, administrative autonomy and assets.  Its
main office is located in Bogota and it has 21 regional offices throughout
Colombia. Under the decentralized reform of 1987 (Decree 77), and under
Decree 2428 of October 24, 1989, DRI has been restructured so as to give
greater authority and responsibility to its 21 regional offices,
consolidate the processing and budgeting system of RDIP regional offices
with those of the municipalities, establish and maintain a system to
transfer funds efficiently to the regional offices, develop a suitable
monitoring system to keep track of RDIP projects, introduce a new project
planning, programming and appraisal system and to build in the mechanism
for impact evaluation of the RDIP. The restructuring has also involved
creation of new functions and reorganization of management and operational
arrangements within DRI as noted below (para. 4.06). Currently, DRI has a
staff of 321 (102 professionals in Bogota, 105 in the 21 regions, and 114
support staff). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
Government would retain in DRI staff in numbers and pos4.ions in Bogota,
and the regional offices, satisfactory to the Bank, for the efficient
implementation of the RDIP (para. 6.01 (1)).
4.02     DRI's organization in Bogota consists of the Board of Directors
(chaired by the Minister of Agriculture), the General Manager, appointed by
the President of the Republic: six support offices (Legal, Communications,
General Secretariat (including the Administrative Division), Organizational
Development Office (responsible for the Personnel and Welfare Division and
the Human Resources Development Division) and the Methods and Systems
Office; and the three main operational offices Ul anning, Operations and
Finince). Each of the three operational offices is headed by an Assistant



- 25 -
Manager, who is responsible for the technical and operational aspects.
Supporting these offices are eight divisions (Programming, Policy Analysis
and Program Evaluation, and Statistics; Technical and Control of
Operations; Programming and Analysis, Budgeting and Accounting, and
Treasury). The 21 regional offices, are each supported by Administrative
Units and Technical, Operational and Finance Units (Annex 15).
4.03     The General Manager would be responsible for overall management of
DRI activities, and helshe would be assisted by the Secretary General
(General Secretariat). A Management Committee, chaired by the General
Manager an;s consisting of the Secretary General and three Assistant
Managers and Chiefs of the four offices meet once a week to review the
programming and execution of the annual budget and of the AOP, to assess
progress of the investment program. This would continue under the RDIP.
4.04     Operational Procedures.  DRI's office in Bogota would be
responsible for programming, controlling and managing RDIP financial
resources, as well as technical backstopping for the regions. The Bogota
office would discharge these responsibilities through the three Assistant
Managers' Offices:   Planning would be responsible for the overall
programming of the investments, controlling, monitoring and evaluation of
the RDIP, analysis of DRI policies in rural areas, and for managing the
information and statistical systems; Operations would be the key office for
the RDIP. It would be responsible for the technical aspects of each of the
investment projects and it would oversee and assist the 21 regional offices
vith the preparation of the AOP; and Finance would be responsible for
preparation of the budget, its programming and analysis, processing of
disbursements, accounting and auditing. Three divisions support the
operations Office: (a) the Technical Division would have the technical
staff to provide the necessary technical backstopping for the regional
offices for all the investment projects under the RDIP; (b) the Control
Division would provide the overall coordination with the regional offices;
and (c) the Administrative Division would act as the secretariat to the
Board for bidding and procurement and it would also help the regional
offices in the management of procurement. Since DRI's Board of Directors
consists of representatives from the decentralized organizations in the
agricultural sector, this would make it easier to coordinate RDIP
investments. This would be particularly the case for technology adaptation
and extension, watershed management, ex.vironmental protection, fisheries
and rural women's projects where programs are managed by other
decentralized entities. DRI would coordinate its investments in roads
through the Technical Council for Regional Coordination and with the FFDU
in respect of the water supply and sanitation projects.
4.05     DRI's regional offices would interact with the DRI committees and
the municipalities in screening projects for inclusion in DRI's Annual
Investment Plan. The 21 regional offices would also play the central role
in processing projects through the appraisal, approval and supervision
stages. Most importantly the regional directors would be responsible for
actual approval and signing of cofinancing contracts for investment
projects (with a maximum of cofinancing from DRI up to US$50,000
equivalent), and assisting the municipalities in the identification,
preparation and execution of projects. They would also coordinate the
execution of the RDIP with other national and local entities. The Program
Review (para. 4.08) would among other things, assess if the US$50,000



- 26 -
equivalent approval authority of the regional offices is adequate for the
efficient implementation of the RDIP.
4.06     During the last six months, DRI has introduced a number of
significant changes to strengthen its management and information system to
help with implementation of the RDIP as follows:
(a) RDIP Coordination. To further strengthen DRI's capacity, the
Assistant Manager for Operations has been appointed as the full-
time RDIP Coordinator and two professional staff have been
appointed to assist him. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that this group of professionals would be retained,
on a full-time basis, for the duration of the RDIP to oversee the
implementation of the RDIP (para. 6.01 (m)). The main
responsibilities of the Coordinator would be to integrate the
planuing, operation and financial programming for the RDIP in
Bogota, to synchronize these plans with the implementation
programs which would be managed by the regional offices, and to
screen proposals and any technical documents prior to their
submission for Bank's review and approval.  The Coordinator's
Office would also do trouble-shooting and be responsible for
resolving outstanding operational problems.
(b)   Training. An Ad Hoc Training Committee has been established under
the chairmanship of the Assistant Manager for Operations and the
RDIP Coordinator in order to coordinate the multifacet training
programs to be supported under the RDIP. The project provides for
a consultant for a three-month assignment to help DRI develop
training strategies, negotiate with the national training
entities, formulate training programs for DRI staff, prepare the
supervision reports and review and coordinate the training of
environmental aspects. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that DBI would hire, by September 30, 1990, a consultant,
with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to assist the Ad Hoc
Training Committee of DRI. Such consultant would be employed by
DRI for at least a three-month term each year in the period
1990-93 (para. 6.01 (n)). The need for further assistance beyond
1993 would be based on the recommendations of the Program Review
(para. 4.08).
(c)   Watershed Management and Environmental Protection.  A section has
been established within the Special Projects Division of the
Operations Office to assist in coordinating within DRI all the
environmental aspects of RDIP projects. It would coordinate its
activitiee with the Section for Technology Adjustment within the
Division for Agricultural Development. This section would be
strengthened with the addition of part-time consultants. DRI has
appointed two consultants to assist this section review and to
further prepare watershed management projects for 1990 and
assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
consultants would be retained for one to three months, as
necessary, in each of the subsequent years, for the duration of
the RDIP (para. 6.01 (o). Also, an assurance was obtained that
DRI would contract a consultant with qualifications and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank to assist in carrying out



- 27 -
environmental assessments for the watershed management projects
(para. 6.01 (p).  It is envisaged that the consultant would work
part time for about three months each year for the duration of the
RDIP.
(d)    Planning and Programming, a Technical Preinvestment Committee,
under the Chairmanship of the Assistant Manager, Operations, has
been established to provide technical backup for the regional
offices to strengthen their capacity to review and analyze
economic aspects of projects. DRI has appointed three economists
to the Operations Office of DRI to monitor procedures and to
ensure that eligibility criteria are followed in processing the
1991-1994 projects. An assurance was obtained that DRI would
retain these professionals for the duration of the RDIP (para.
6.01 (q)).
Monitorina, Proaram Review, Imnact and Environmental Evaluations
4.07     DRT would establish a monitoring system to track the processing of
projects through the entire project planning, execution and supervision
cycle (Annex 16). The monitoring system would permit management to keep
tabs on progress and to provide early warning of implementation problems,
including environmental aspects. Monitoring reports at the project level
Will be prepared by the Interventoria" for civil works projects, and the
executing agencies for all the other types of projects. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that as a condition of
effectiveness, DRlI would have established and put into operation a
monitoring system, and provided the Bank with methodologies for the impact
evaluation studies and baseline surveys and would have hired consultants to
carry out the first baseline survey on the basis of terms of reference and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, (para. 6.02 (b)). An assurance was
also obtained that the first baseline survey would be completed by June 30,
1991, and would be followed by a second survey to be done by June, 1995
(para. 6.01 (r). Both surveys would be used for carrying out the impact
evaluation to assess the socioeconomic benefits derived from the RDIP.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that DRI would hire
consultants by June 30, 1995, with qualifications and under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the second baseline survey
and the impact evaluation by October 31, 1995 (para. 6.01 (r)). In
addition to periodic reviews, the impact evaluation would provide
information on which to modify the DRI program as necessary.
4.08     In addition, during negotiations assurances were obtained that DRI
would submit annual progress reports to the Bank by September 30 of each
year in conjunction with the AOP, and brief progress reports of two to
three pages identifying the major issueslproblems in the planning and
implementation of the RDIP, by August 31 and February 28 of each year
(para. 6.01 (5)). The issuesiproblems to be identified in these reports
would cover, inter alia, provision of counterpart funds, including
provision of IVA funds, cost recovery, maintenance of roads, environmental
problems, the pace of technology adaptation and the effectiveness of
research and extension services, preparation of the AOP, and other serious
problems with implementation, etc. This information would help the Bank to
plan and decide together with DRI and the IDB on the timing and composition
of supervision missions. Moreover, in order to enable a timely assessment
of progress of the RDIP's implementation and to ensure that corrective



- 28 -
actions are taken, an assurance was obtained during negotiations from
Government that the Agricultural Studies Unit in DNP would prepare the
terms of reference, identify and contract consultants with qualifications,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake the
Program Rev$ew of the RDIP by August 31, 1992. Thereafter, DNP would
submit to the Bank the consultants' report and recommendations by October
15, 1992, and by November 31, 1992, prepare and send to the Bank an action
plan based on 'She report, and thereafter ensure that DRI shall Implement
the action plan to correct deficiencies (para. 6.01 Ct)). The Program
Review would inter alla include an assessment of the appropriateness of DRI
operational procedures and the efficiency of their application by
municipalities and other implementing agencies. Annex 17 provides details
of the scope and content of the Program Review and the technical and
economic evaluation of specific projects (CESCOS, CESPAS, training and
environmental aspects.
4.09     Environmental XM&s_t. An environmental impact evaluation study,
financed by IDB, was prepared and its recommendations have been
incorporated into RDIP's design. In addition, as noted in para. 4.06 (c),
DRI has established a Watershed Management and Environmental Protection
Section in the Special Projects Division of the Operational Complex to
screen projects for their likely environmental impact and to oversee the
implementation of such. The staff in the regional offices would supervise
the environmental aspects of each project and the brief progress reports
referred in para. 4.11 would spell out issuesiproblems encountered in
respect to the compliance with the environmental criteria for each project.
Already in screeniug the 1990 RDIP projects, DRI removed 10 of the 42 roads
projects and 29 of the 31 water supply and sanitation projects,
respectively, pending the outcome of a detailed environmental evaluation
for each. DRI gives strong emphasis to training programs in environmental
aspects for DRI staff, elected municipal officials, staff in the executing
agencies (technology adaptation and extension) and DRI communities.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01     Benefits.  The major benefits of the RDIP would bet  first,
reduced rural poverty by increasing employmuent and incomes of about 280,000
poor farmers, fishermen and rural women through access to improved
agricultural technological packages, with strong support of extension
services and complimentary marketing facillties, as well as training, and
technical assistance to promote small-scale enterprises to increase
employment and incomes. At full development, the RDIP would utilize
annually an estimated incremental labor force of 53,100 man-years
equivalent; second, Improved living standards of rural poor in 9,000
communities through access to safe drinking water and sanitation services,
as well as rural roads to connect their villages with production and
marketing centers; third, enhanced sustainability of investments through
more active involvement of rural communities in the identification of
development projects and their operation and maintenance during
impLementation; fourth improved soil management practices in strategically
located watersheds in the Andean region to safegua-d the environment; and
fifth strengthened DRI's capacity to plan, prepare, appraise and supervise



-29 
rural development projects, and the enhanced capacity of the municipalities
to cofinance and administer such projects.
5.02     At full development (Year 7), the annual incremental production
generated by the RDIP is estimated as follows:
RDB! Incree.ntal           RDoP
National        Production and      Incremntal ProdcOton
Production       Ae at Ful I        at Full Div eophnt
s8o             Dsv lopm.nt        as X of the 09
Producte             ('o00 ton)     ('US ton nd 'a60 ha)    National Productlon
AouIcui^tural
Rloo                        1092              18      9                 I
,Mal*1 2                                     87    154                 29
ans  '                        99              6      80                 7
Potato"                     21IS O55                 -2                 0
Plantain                    2560             559     87                 22
Cassava                     18               355     23                 29
Panla (non-Centrifugal
supr)                     1244             110      2                  9
cocoa                         57              a       -                 6
SesaMe                         7              2       5                 87
Livestock
milk (I. lter.)             SoM             142   N.A.                  4
Bee (carca** welght)         64              88   N.A.                  5
Pork (dresed weight)         119              10   N.A.                 9
5.03      At full development and at farmigate prices utilized in the
financial analysis, the total value of the annual incremental production
generated is estimated at about US$180 million (in constant January 1990
terms), of which about 60?-would be from annual crops, 20S from semi-
permanent and permanent crops, and 19Z from livestock activities.
5.04      It is estimated that only 72 of the value of production would bew
consumed on the farm. The rest, which would consist of a wide range of
commodities, would be sold in the local markets or outside the project
areas.  Overall, project incremental production would represent a small
proportion of national production, except for corn and cassava. No
particular marketing problems are expected.



- 30 -
ILLUSTRATIVE FARM MODEL$
1         2         a        4       t       6     7
Andoan     Andean    Andean   Andan  Andes   Cos   Coast
Region/Cl1te                moderate  modebrate   moderate   Cold   cold   Hut   Hot
Total Annual Cultivated Am (bh)  6.9     2.4        4.8     8.8    8.7    5.9  2B.4
Uvostock (hb)                 1.7       9.9        2.1      0.?    4.2    4.5  1.l
Woodlot (he)                  0.1        -          1.8     -       O.5    1.1   8.3
Yar of full Development       8         19         12      1*       7      14    11
Annual Income After
Debt Servlce j/
(a) Without Project
- Remuneration Fnmlly Labor  209     22       2fl 817    278    too    89so
- Data,. Consumption      49        127       114       a      7       111    96
- Cash Surplus          8361        451       a"7      am      go?    684   970
Total                  818        790       754     628   1989   1165  1456
(b) With Proj4t at fuJI
Doveopmaent
- Remuneration Family Labor  287    278       264      198    278    890   89a
- Onfarm Consumption      49        128       129      1ie     79     111    96
- Cash Surplus            94        719       1094     616   1460   1599  8858
Tote I                1290       1111      1477     919   '1812   91W   4344
Income per Capita
(a) Without Project          t9         78        69       67    112    102   159
(6) With Project at
Fu Il Dovelopeent       164        116        179     191    289    282   682
j/ Income fIgures, I lOCal currency (Coll '996) at January 199# constant prices.
5.05      The projected farm development is based on the assumption that the
farmer would phase the start of development of various activities over a
period of three tp four years.  For each activity, yields and associated
production costs have been projected to increase progressively to their full
development level over a period of seven years.  Incremental production will
involve an expansion of 258,000 ha plus productivity increases in the same
land. For instance,- in the case of corn, gross changes on yields were
estimated to be three times greater than area increments, while cassava has
a tenfold relationship of yield increase to area expansion.
5.06      Improvements in agriculture vould not-require major investments:
(a) for crows, they would involve mostlys Ci) intensification of land use
through reduction of areas under fallow, increase in areas under multiple
cropping, and when permitted by topographic conditions, increase in area
cultivated, (ii) increases in yields through the adoption of measures and
packages developed by the ZTPD, including better land preparation; optimum
crop population; use of certified seed of improved varieties; coitrol of
weeds, insects and diseases; rational use of inputs and *mprovea post--
harvest handling; and (iii), erosion control through planting of trees and



- 31 
the adoption of simple soil and water conservation practices and minor soil
protection works; and (b) for livestock, this would involve development of
family herds of dual-purpose cattle and a vhole range of minor species; and
the purchase of animals and other inputs necessary to ensure their adequate
nutrition, health and management.
5.07      Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return for the
productive projects of the RDIP, which account for over 30? of total RDIP
cost, is estimated at 162. The econamie rate of return of the
infrastructure projects cannot be readily quantified, but DRI's screening
process (Eligibility Criteria) provides that such projects would not be
approved for cofinancing unless they have an oeonomic rate of return higher
than 122. CESCOS and CESPAS projects will have to yield positive financial
returns after repayment of outstanding loans, 06U. expenses plus allowances
for depreciation. The arrangements for cost recovery of O&M in respect of
water supply and sanitation projects would be the same as those already
practiced under the ongoing Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project (Loan
2961-CO). The practice under the Water Supply Project is for each comunity
to maintain and operate the completed water supply system.
5.08      Risks.  The main risks related to the degree to which some of the
benefits mentioned above, may not fully materialize during the first five-
years of the RDIP because of the inexperience and limited capacity of DRI
and the municipalities to objectively select and implement projects,
notwithstanding the screening procedures (Eligibility Criteria). This is
particularly relevant to rural roads, water supply and sanitation, CESCOS
and CESPAS projects. Also, RDIP's implementation may take longer than
planned because procedures, especially the arrangements for cofinancing
between the municipalities and DRI are new, and may need a longer gestation
to be put into operation effectively. Although there is adequate capacity
in Colombia to produce technological packages and to provide extension
services, a related risk concerns the capacity of executing agencies to
prepare and implement technology adaptation and extension in a coordinated
manner and at a satisfactory pace. It is also possible that it may take
longer to generate the technological packages than envisaged to bring about
the projected production and Yield increases, and the improvements for
fisheries and watershed management projects. To reducet These risks the
following safeguards have been incorporated in the RDIP. DRI would provide
the Bank an Operating Plan annually for review of the projects before their
implementation. Also, the Government would undertake, before the end of
1992, with the help of outside consultants, an in-depth assessment (Program
Review) of the overall effectiveness of DRY's appraisal and supervision of
projects, as well as the overall effectiveness of management and
coordination of the RDIP including, inter alia, the effectiveness of
research and extension services in order to correct weaknesses in
implementation. Separate evaluations would be done on CESCOS, CESPAS,
training and environmental aspects of the program. The CESCOS and CESPAS
projects would not be eligible for financing under the project until shown
by the evaluation to be viable and sustainable. To reduce the risks
further, DRI's management and operational system have been strengthened
prior to the initiation of the RDIP, especially through a major
restructuring of functions and through delegating greater authority to
regional offices, installing new budgetary, financial controls and
information systems, and training of staff. Additional intensive technical
assistance and training would be provided to further strengthen planning and
implementation capabilities of DRI and the municipalities during execution
of the RDIP. This would be complemented by intensive supervision by the
Bank and ID8 especially during the first two years. IDB's Resident Mission



- 32 -
in Colombia, as part of its operational practice would carry out on-the-spot
intensive supervision, on the basis of a supervision plan agreed vith the
Bank. The Resident Mission would produce a supervision report once every
three months for review by the Bank and both Banks would use this report to
decide what additional supervision would be required.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS
6.01      It was agreed thats
(a) the Government has -provided evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
that the processing time of DRI's reimbursement requests have been
reduced to 40 days and assurances were obtained that the new
procedures would be maintained for the duration of the RDIP
(para. 2.11);
(b) the Government through DNP woulds (i) undertake a study not later
than August 1991 to develop a graduation policy for phasing out
the municipalities from RDIP, as they improve their finances and
become more creditworthy; (ii) submit the report and
recormendations to the Bank for comments by January 31, 1992; and
{iii) the Government shall ensure that DRI shall introduce the
Graduation Policy by September 30, 1992 (para. 3.10);
(c) DRI would submit an AOP to the Bank for review and comment by
September 30 of each year, and that inter alia, the Operating Plan
would detail the status on preparation and cost of projects, as
well as identify those projects requiring environmental studies
and it would include only projects in areas where security
considerations would not impede the normal Bank supervision (para.
3.11);
(d) The Government shall cause ICA to:  (a) submit by September 30,
1990, an action plan and timetable satisfactory to the Bank for
establishing-the additional 19 CRECEDS; and (b) thereafter
implement the action plan (para. 3.13 (a));
(e) the Government would: (i) submit for the Bank's comments by
September 30, 1991, a plan of action and the timetable for phasing
ICA out of extension by 1992; Cii) maintain arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for providing extension to RDIP
beneficiaries (para. 3.13 (b));
f)  DRlI would not include in the AOP, CESPAS and CESCOS projects,
until such time that it would submit evaluations, satisfactory to
the Bank, for each of those projects which it had financed from
its own resources. The evaluation, inter alia, would show the
viability of each project and mechanism for recovering the O&M
costs to sustain these projects; and in respect of rural women
projects, until it would carry out a socioeconomic needs
assessment survey of the women's groups already formed and submit
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for providing additional
assistance and for phasing out the groups which could obtain



- 33 -
financing from other sources (paras. 3.17, 3.18 and 3.20
respectively);
(g) DRI would require that municipalities allocate and spend a fixed
percentage per year for maintenance of roads cofinanced under the
RDIP on the basis o;. a road maintenance program for each road
project which would be prepared and costed during the design stage
for each road to be financed under the RDIP, and DRI would not
finance new roads and related agricultural production projects
(technology adaptation and extension, including marketing), in
subsequent years for municipalities which have not complied.
Average estimate of expenditure for maintenance is 42 (para.
3.22);
(h) arrangements stipulated in the Letter of Agreement between DRI and
the FMDU would be maintained for the duration of the RDIP (para.
3.23);
(i) (i) DRI and the municipalities and other eligible agencies would
follow the procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) DRI would submit sample bidding documents for ICB and LCB for
go,ods and works for Bank approval; and (iii) DRI would submit for
Bank review all procurement documentation related to ICB and to
the first two LCB operations for both goods and civil works prior
to authorization of disbursements (para. 3.31); and (iv) the Bank
would review civil works valued at the above US$0.5 million
equivalent (para. 3.33);
(j) DRI would make suitable arrangements to ensure that both the Bank
and IDB loans disburse at about the same rate, and review
annually, each September with the Bank, the status of
disbursements of both Banks (pari Dassu provision) (para. 3.34);
(k) certified copies of the audited consolidated RDIP accounts,
audited special accounts in the Central Bank, iacluding a separate
opinion on the use of SOEs and audited DRI financial statements,
would be submitted annually to the Bank not later than six months
after the close of the financial year, starting with audit reports
for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1990 (para. 3.37); and
that if the financial audits identify significant irregularities
in any participating municipality or agency, DRI would suspend
disbursements to that party, and require special audits to be
carried out to ensure that these irregularities have been resolved
before disbursements are resumed (para. 3.37);
(1) the Government would retain in DRI, staff in numbers and posit$ons
in Bogota and in the regional offices, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the efficient implementation of the RDIP (para. 4.01);
(m) DRI would retain the Assistant Manager for Operations (RDIP
Coordinator) and the two professional staff on a full time basis,
for the duration of the project to oversee the implementation of
the RDIP (para. 4.06 (a));



34 -
(n) DRI would hire by September 30, 1990, a consultant, with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to assist the Ad Hoc
Training Committee of DRI. Such consultant would be employed by
DRI for at least a three-month period each year in the period
1990-1993 (para. 4.06 (b));
(o)  DRI would retain for one to three months as necessary, in each of
the subsequent years for the duration of the RDIP, two consultants
to help with the preparation of watershed management projects
(para. 4.06 (c));
Cp) DRI would contract a consultant to assist In carrying out
environmental assessments for the watershed management projects
(para. 4.06 (c));
(q) DRI would retain for the duration of the RDIP the three economists
appoiated to the Operations Office to monitor procedures ard to
ensure that eligibility criteria are followed in processing of the
1991-1994 projects (para. 4.06 td)).
(r) DRI would complete the first baseline survey by June 30, 1991 and
it would hire consultants by June 30, 1995, with qualification and
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out
the second baseline survey and the impact evaluation by October
31, 1995 (para. 4.07);
Cs) DRI would submit annual progress reports to the Bank by
September 30 of each year, in conjunction with the Operating
Plans, and brief progress reports of two to three pages
identifying the major issuesiproblems in the planning and
implementation of the RDIP, by August 31 and February 28 of each
year (para. 4.08); and
st) the Government through DNP would prepare the terms of reference,
identify and contract consultants with qualifications, and under
terms and conditions satisfactory to tehe Bank, to undertake the
Program Review of the RDIP by August 31, 1992. Thereafter, DNP
would submit to the Bank the censultants' report and
recomendations by October 15, 1992, and by November 30, 19e2,
prepare and send to the Bank an action plan based on the report,
and thereafter ensure that DRI shall implement the action plan to
correct deficiencies (para. 4.08).
6.02     The following would be Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) the Goverrment has signed a Subsidiary Agreement with DRI under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.35); and
(b) DRI has established and put the monitoring system into operation;
has provided the Bank with a detailed proposal for an impact
evaluation methodology and the baseline surveys methodology; and
has hired consultants to carry out the first baseline survey, on
the basis of terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.07).



33~~~~~~*
6.03     Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan to the Republic of Colombia for Us$75.0 million equivalent; the
terms would be 17 years includinSg a five-year grace period at fhe standard
variable  interest rate.
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
y.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



-36-                          Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPWERT INVESTMBNT PROGRAM CRDIP)
The Decentralization Reforms and Their !milication for the RDIP
1.       Colombia introduced sweeping decentralization reforms (1986-1989)
giving more authority and responsibility to the municipalities and local
communities over economic development programs in their jurisdiction.
Decree 77, passed in early 1987, was the center piece of the
decentralization reforms. It made the municipalities responsible for
providing the essential services instead of the Central Government. The
main services are: secondary and tertiary rural roads, water supply and
sanitation, agricultural extension and marketing. The same Decree provides
for the municipalities to prepare a two-year Development Plan and an annual
investment program composed of specific projects. Each municipalities has
established a Municipal Projects Bank which serves as a registry of all the
priority investment projects identified by the communities. Projects must
be registered in a Municipal Projects Bank to have access to budgeting
resources from the municipalities and the Central Government.
2.       Decree 77 provides for tht decentralization reforms to be
implemented jointly between the Central Government and the municipalities.
DRI has been given the main responsibility for jointly financing
(cofinancing) with the municipalities projects in agricultural extension,
rural roads and water supply and sanitation projects. It has also been
given the responsibility for cofinancing marketing, fisheries, watershed
investment, rural woman and training projects.
3,       Realignment for Rural Roads.  As noted above, Decree 77 shifts the
responsibility for constructing and maintaining Colombia's secondary and
tertiary roads, classified as municipalV, to the local governments.  The
new regulations requires that the National Fund for Rural Roads (FNCV)
cease undertaking construction and maintenance of roads in all urban
centers corresponding to departmental capitals, construction, repair and
maintenance of local feeder roads only when municipal cofinancing is
secured in the same subsector.
4.       In practice, FNCV, in addition to offering matching grants, will
continue to administer civil works in the feeder roads subsector in all but
the major urban centers for the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, local
governments are free to finance and manage projects in feeder roads as they
see fit. Given that the municipalities have had limited experience in
managing rural roads construction, substantial preparatory work needs to be
undertaken before they can effectively take over these functions. Bence,
it is essential for FNCV to program technical assistance components to
prepare local governments for gradually taking over management
responsibilities, firstly for maintenance and repairs, and ultimately for
construction.
5.       Aside from some 25,000 km of road legally defined as the national
network, there Is no clear definition of which segments of the secondary
and tertiary systems belong to departments or to municipal governments.
The Central Government is expected to come up with a legal definition of
'mumicipal' roads after the ongoing exercise in functional-jurisdictional
classification of roads is completed. Presently, no such definition
exists.



ANNEX 1
-37-                          Page 2 of 3
6.       The Ministry of Public Works is now also undertaking an inventory
of the condition of roads and a functional-jurisdictional road
classification for all networks other than national highways.
Additionally, under a recent Bank appraised project, FNCV will also carry
out a municipality-by-municipality inventory of road maintenance capacity
at the local level. This exercise will provide critical information for
drawing up an orderly time-bound program for developing local capacity and
for shifting full maintenance and management responsibilities to local
governments.
7.       Realignment for Water SUDDlY and Sanitation.  With the
promulgation of Decree 77 (1987), local governments have assumed primary
responsibility for providing drinking water and sewerage services. The
National Institute for Municipal Development  INSFOPAL), a national agency
which had been providing these services to 460 municipalities across the
country was to be dismantled by December 31, 1989. Likewise, the Basic
Rural Sanitation Division (BRSD) of the National Health Institute (INS), in
charge of rural water supply and the administration of the National Program
for Basic Rural Sanitation (PAS) was to be dissolved by mid-1988. To
replace INSFOPAL and BRSD, a Directorate for Water Supply and Basic
Sanitation (DWSBS) was to be established in the Ministry of Public Works
and Transpott to serve as the sectors' primary technical support entity
with responsibilities for sectoral planning, setting and enforcing of
technical standards, research, and technical assistance to regional
operating companies.
8.       Marketing.  Decree 77 has expanded DRI's responsibility in
marketing by directing it to promote and coordinate association of small
rural and urban retailers for the implementation of programs to provide
staple foods, supply warehouses and coordinate and cofinance food security
programs at the national district or local level. DRI is expected to get
greater technical support from the Ministry of Agriculture which
established the Directorate General of Marketing (expected to begin
operations in 1990) to formulate, analyze and monitor sectoral policies and
exercise budgetary control over some marketing programs (Decree 501).
9.       Finances.  Decree 77 is a further development of Law No. 12
(approved in 1986) which provides for transferring to the municipalities
about 50? (from 302 in 1985) of the total revenues the Central Government
will collect in 1992 from the National Sales Tax (IVA) (Annex 5). A large
portion of these resources would be used as counterpart funds for financing
projects in the RDIP. In addition, Law 78 of 1986 authorized the electioa
of mayors, once every two years by a popular vote, instead of their being
appointed by the Governors. Elections were held in March 1988 and 1990.
10.      Complementary to the new yearly investment planning provided under
Decree 77, the Government introduced a new national budget system and, to
make the agricultural credit system more efficient, as well as more
responsive to the needs of small farmers, a new agricultural credit system
has been approved.  The new budaetarv system provides for submission of
only one budget to Congress before July 20 each year, including the
National Government and the public agencies together. At present, the
budget of the National Government and the public agencies are presented
separately, before July 20 and before September 10, respectively.



-38-                 .         Page 3 of 3
I ..                  3
11.      The one year advance planing and budgeting program coupled with
the requirement that specific provisions be made to earmark counterpart
funds for all externally financed projects.ln the budget should facilitate
the progra-ming wad provision of qounterpart funds for projects to be
financed under the RDIP. The counterpa_t funds from the Central Government
budget will be disbursed monthly, and the IVA funds to the municipalities
will be released in six annual instalments, beginning in February each
year, for approved projects. These arrangements are expected to solve the
problems of slow approval and delays in provision of counterpart funds, as
encountered under DRI I and DRI £1 projects.
1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.



-39-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of t
,COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
8S2 PRI Uunielolti.
DEPARTAMENTO   MUNICIPIO   1 * Alreads  In Program  DEPARTIENTO   WNSICVPIO   1 = Already In Program
2 = No                                           2 * now
ANTIOQUIA      ABEJORRAL              1             ANTXOqUIA       ALEJANDRIA              2
ANCOSTURA             1                             ABRXAQUI                2
BELMIRA               1                             ANTzODquA-SANTA FE      2
CARMEN DE VIBORAL     1                             AN A                    2
CISNEROS              1                             BRICENO                 2
COCORNA               1                             CAICEDO                 2
CONCEPCION            1                             CAWPAMENTO              2
DON MATIAS            1                             CAHASOOROAS             2
ENTRERRIOS            1                             DABEISA                 2
GRANADA               1                             EBEJICO                 2
UARNE                 1                             FRONTINO                2
WUATAPE               1                             CDRALDO                 2
LA UNION              1                              O0MEZ PLATA            2
MARINILLA             1                             LIBORINA                2
PENOL                 1                             OLAYA                   2
RIONEGRO              1                             SASANALARGA             2
SAN PEDRO             1                             SAN RAFAEL              2
SAN ROqUE             1                             SANTUARIO               1
SAN VICENTE           1                             SPETRAN                 2
SANTA ROSA DE OSOS    1                             URAMITA                 2
SANTA DOMINO          1                             URRAO                   2
YARUMAL               1                             SONSON                  1
YOLOMBO               1
ATLANTICO      BARANGA                I             ATLANTICO       CAMPO DE LA CRUZ        1
CANDELARIA            I                             JUAN DE ACOSTA          1
LURUACO               1                             IMAATI                  1
PONEDERA              1                               PELON                 1
SABANALARGA           1                             SANTA LUCIA             1
SUAN                  1                             BARRJNquzLLA            2
MALAMBO               2                             PALMAR DE VARELA        2
PIOJO                 2                             POLO NUEVO              2
SABANAGRANDE          2                             SANTO TOMAS             2
TUSARA                2



ANNE 2
-40-                       Pao 2 f 7
DEPARTAIMENTO   MWNCIPI     I a Alry Itn Progra  DEPARTMO           MUNICIPIO     I a Alredy In Program
2 a mm                                               2 a noew
BOLIVAR        CARMEN   BOUVAR        1              BOLIVAR         MACANCUE               I
MAHATES               1                              MARGARITA               1
MARIA LA BAJA         1                              WO,s                   1
SAN FERNAFDO          1                              SAN JACINTO             I
SN JUAN NEPOUCENO    1                               TALAICA NUEVO           1
ARJONA                2                              CALAMAR                2
CARTAGEN              2                              CORDOBA                2
EL GUANO              2                              SAN ESTANISLAO         2
SANTA CATALINA        2                              SANTA ROSA             2
SOPLAVIENO            2                              TUR8ACO                2
TUR8ANA               2                              VILUANUEVA             2
ZAMWRANO              2
WOYACA         ALMEIDA                1              BOYACA         BELEN                   1
QSOVITA               1                              BOYACA                  1
CALDAS                I                              CERINZA                1
OHINAVITA             I                              CHIQUINQUIRA           1
CHIqUIZA              1                              CHISCAS                1
CHNTARAQUE            I                              CHIVATA                1
COCUY                 1                              COMBITA                 I
CORRALES              1                              CUCAITA                I
_UITAMA               1                              EL ESPINO               1
FIRAVITOBA            I                              FLORESTA               1
FLORESTA              I                              GAMEZA                 I
GAMEZA                I                              GARAGOA                1
GUACAMAYAS            1                              GUATEQUE               1
WUAYATA               1                              GUICAN                 1
IZA                   1                              JENEZANO               1
LA CAPILLA            I                              LA UVITA               1
MACANAL               I                              MONImUIRA              I
MOTAVITA              I              -       _       NUEVO COLON             1
OICATA                I                              PACHAVITA              1
PAIPA                 I                              PESCA                   1
RAMIRISUI             1                              SAOOYA                  1
SAN JOSE DE PARE      I                              SAN MATEO               I
SAN MIGUEL DE SENA    1                              SANTANA                1
SIACIOQUE             1                              SOATA                   1
SOGAMOSO              I                              SOMONDOCO              1
SORACA                1                              STA ROSA DE VITERBO    I
SUSACON               1                              SUTATENZA               1
TENZA                 1                              TIBAHA                  1
TIBASOSA              1                              TIPACOWUE               1
TOCA                  1                              TOGUI                   1
lUWJA                 1                              TURMEQUE                1
TUTASA                I                              UMBITA                  1
VENTAtJEMAbA          1                              AQUITANIA               2
ARCABUCO              2                              BERBEO                 2
BETErTIVA             2                              BUSBANZA                2
CAMPOHERMSO           2                              OIITA                  2
CIENAGA               2                              COVARACHIA              2



-41-                         Pag S of?
DEPAREITO    lMZCWPIO    1 A  ryn Ptogrm   EPARTMT               WMNCIPID        * AlrW  In Progrm
taNM.                                              2am
BOYACA         cuITIA                2              OYACA         GACHANTIVA             2
.ERICO               2                             L     NDE              2
LEIVA                2                             MIIALORE 
1ma                  2                             moIU                   2
NOSSA                2                             PA                     2
PAJARITO             2                             PANQU                  2
PAYA                 2                             PAZ DE RIO             2
PleVA                2                             RA4U                   2
RNloN                2                             SAOICA                 2
SAMACA               2                             SAN EDUARDO            2
SAN LUIS DE GACEI4   2                             SANTA MARIA            2
SANT SOFIA           2                             SATIVANORlE            2
ShTIVASUR            2                             sO"                    2
SOCOtA               2                             SOR                    2
SOTA41JURA           2                             SUtrAUARHAN            2
TAScO                2                             TINAC                  2
TOPAGA               2                             TOTA                   2
MfUA                 2                             VIRACAOIA              2
-         ~~~2ETAmUIR            2
CALDAS         AWADAS                1             CALOAS        ARANZAZU                1
FIDELPI              1                             MANZANARES             1
MARMATO              I                             PACORA                 1
PESILVANIA           1                             RZOSSaO                1
SALAMIA              1                             SUPIA                  1
LA MIERD             2                             MANWALES               2
MARULANDA            2                             NEIRA                  2
VILLAMRIA            2                             VITERY O               2
CAUCA          ALMAGE                1             CAUCA          BALBOA                 I
BOLIVAR              1                             CALDONO                1
CALOTO               1                             Ino 
LA VEC               1                             MERCADERES             1
PAEZ-4ELALAZ         1                             PATIA (EL 83O)         1
SILVIA                1                            TOTORO                 1
AMELIA               2
CESAR          AACHCA                2             cAR            AGUSTIN CODAZZ         2
GAMARtA              2                             GONZALEZ               2
LA GLORIA            2                             MAKAURE P CEAR         2
PAIUTAS              2                             PELAYA                 2
RIO DE ORO           2                             ROBLES-(LA PAZ)        2
SN MARTIN            2                             TAMAULwEqIUE           2
COR08A         CHM                   I             COR"A          CIEA   OA ORO          1
MOMIL                I                             MlNITOS                1
PURISIMA             I                             S.8ERtARD DEL VIENTO   1
SAHAlUN               1                            SAN ANTERO             I
SAN PELATO           I                             AYAPEL                 2
LOiRCA               2                             LOS CORDOBAS           2
MONTERIA             2                             PLANETA RICA           2
PUEDLO NEVO          2                             PUERTO ESCONDIDO       2
OWN101               1                             SA  CARLOS             2



-42-                         Pge 4 o 7
DEpARTAImO      wNIcPZo    1 a Atr..d  In Program  DETPARTTO       NCIIO    I1  Alr_y In Program
CUNDINAWARCA   ALl                                 CUNIAARCA   ARSIELA                    1
MTUMA                                              " e 
CAJE                  1                            C1ACHI                  1
FOM                                                FOSCA                   1
FUS"QASUG             1    .AYAAL DE SIQIlA                                1
PASCA                 1                            QUETAME                 1
SA BItNARDO           1                            SILVANIA                1
U8AqJE                1                            UKN                     I
vim                   1                            AWA DE DIOS             2
ANAPOIM               2                            BELIRAN                 2
BOJACA                2                            CACHIPAY                2
CARMEN DE CARUPA      2                            CHAtUA                  2
COIOOTA               2                            CUCWDLA                 2
EL PENON              2                            FACATATIVA              2
FUNZA                 2                            FUUE                    2
eAOHU                 2                             CHANCIPA               2
O04ETA                2                            GA"                     2
GIRARDOT              2                             WJACHETA               2
GUADU       .         2                             USCA                   2
WATAqUI               2                             WATAVITA              2
GUYABETAL             2                            GUTIERREZ               2
JERUZALEN             2                            JUNIN                   2
LACALER               2                            LA MESA                 2
LA PENA               2                            LA VEGA                 2
LINGUAZAIUF           2                            1LAOITA                 2
MADRID                2                            MANTA                   2
MEDINA                2                            mOSquEA                 2
NARINO                2                            NEMOCON                 2
NILD                  2                            NIMAIMA                 2
NOCAIMA               2                            PACHO                   2
PARATESUEMO           2                            PULl                    2
DUEBPADA NE¢          2                            QPjIPILE                2
RAFAEL REYES-APULO    2                            RICAURTE                2
SAN CAYETANO          2                            SAN FRANCISCO           2
SAN JUAN DE RIO SECO  2                            SASAIMA                 2
SESQUILE              2                            SISATE                  2
SIMIJACA              2                            SJACHA                  2
SUBACHOQUE            2                            SUESCA                  2
SUPATA                2                            SUSA                    2
SUTATAUSA             2                            TAUSA                   2
TIBACUY               2                            TIIRITA                2
UBALA                 2                            UBATE                   2
UTICA                 2                            VEROARA                 2
VILLAGOUEZ            2                            V.LLAPiNZON             2
VILL£TA               2                            ZIPACON                 2
ZWAQUIRA              2
CUAJSR         RIOHACH               2             GUAJRA          SAN JUAN DEL CESAR     2
URUMITA               2                            VILLANUEVA              2



-43-                         Page S of 7
DEPARTAMENTO    MUNCIPIO    1 a Already to Progrm  DEPARTMENTO    WJNICIPIO      1 = Already In Progras
2 a New          -                                  2 a    _
NOLA           ACEVEDO                1              UA                ECRAS 
GARZON                1                             GIZANTE                 1
GUADAUPE              I                             LA ARGENTINA            1
LA PLATA              I                             PITALITO                1
SAN AGUSTIN           1                             SAN JOSE DE lSS         1
SUAZA                 1                             TARqui                  1
A4RADO                2                             OPORWA                  2
PAICOL                2                             PITAL                   2
SALADOBLANCO          2                             TESALIA-CARNICERIAS     2
MAODALENA      ARACATACA              1             MAGDALENA       CERRO DE SAN ANTONIO   1
CIENAGA               1                             EL OANCO                1
GUAMAL                1                             PEDRAZA                 1
PIVIJAY               I                             PUSLO  VIEJO            1
REMOLNO               1                             SALAMINA                1
SAN SEBASTIAN-SUIWI I                               SAN 2ENON               1
SANTA MARTA           I                             SANTANA                 I
$MO NEYo              I                             ARIUNI-EL DIPICIL    2
OIIVOLO               2                             EL PINON                2
PLATO                 2                             TENEIFE                 2
META           ACACIAS                1             META            EL CASTILLO            1
FUENTE DE ORO         1                             GRADA                   1
OUAMAL                1                             LEJANIS                 1
RESTREPO              1                             SAN LUIS DE CUBARRAL   I
VILLAVICENCIO         1                             CASUYARO                2
CASTILLA LA NUEVA     2                             CUMARAL                 2
EL CALVARIO           2                             PUERTO LOPEZ            2
SmN JUANITO           2
NARINO         ALDANA                 1             NARiNG         ANCUYA                  1
ARSOLEDA-BERRUECOS    1                             BELEN                   2
8UESACO               1                             COLON-IENOBA            1
CONTADERO             1                             CCRDOBA                 1
EL TAMBO              I                             FUNES                   I
GUAITARILLA           I                             *UALMATAN               I
IS                    I                             IMLIES                  1
IPIALES               1                             LA CRUZ                 1
LAUNION               1                             LINARES                 1
OSPI                 1                             PASTO                   1
POTOSI                I                             PUERRES                 1
PUPIALES              1                             SAMANIECO               1
SAN LORKNZ            1                             SAN PABLO               1
SANDONA               1                             SA  CRUZ-4UACNAVES   I
SAPUYES               1                             TAMINANCO               1
TANA                  1                             TUWUERRES               1
YACIAN                1                             ALBAN-SAN JOSE          2
CONSACA               2                             LA FLORIDA              2
LOS ANDES-SOTOMAYOR   2                               LL IEDRA ANA   2
RICAURTE              2



AMU
-44-                        Peso. of 0
DEPARTAMRINTO   MUICCIPO    I a Alr*Wd  In Progra  HPARTMD4TO      IJmCPT       1 a AlreL*  la Pogrm
2 a Now                                             , at
NORM  SANNDER URWO 'I                              NORE SAANDR CACOTA                     I
LA PLAYA              I                             IAJTICUA               I
ACANA                 I                             PAMPLON                I
PAMPLNTA              S                             SILOS                  I
AJJOLAS               2                             CUCUTA                 2
CUCUTILLA             2                            tRAN                    2
RAGONVALIA            2                            SALAZA                  2
VIA ROSA31O           2
IiNIO          CORDO9A               a              INOO           FILANDIA               I
GOVA                  1                            niAo                    I
SALEMTO               1
RISARALDA      APIA                  1             RISARALDA       IALSOA                 1
.901 UNDRIA           1                            GUATICA                 1
LA CELIA              1                              ISTRATO              I
P.--3L  RICO          1                            SNCMIA                  1
SWTA NlOf CARAt   I                                SANTUARXO               I
DOS SIERADAS          2                             LA VIRGI               2
SAN ANDRES     PROVYDENCIA           2             SAN ANDRES      SAN ANDRES             2
SANTANDER      AGUDA                 I             SANTANDER       ARATOC                 1
BARSOSA               1                            SARICHARA               I
CAtCASI               I                            CERRITO                 1
OIARALA               1                            CHNPATA                 I
CONCEPCION            I                            CURM                    1
ENCINO                I                            ENCISO                  1
"AN                   I                            GASITA                  1
GACA                  I                            CLADALUPE               1
GPOTA                 I                ,GU1ATA                             I
GUSA                  1                            HATO                    1
JESUS MARIA           I                             MbCARAYITA             I
MALAGA                1                            molU                    1
VOLAGAVITA            I                             OCAIMOTE               I
nA                    I                            PALMAS-SOCORRI          1
ONZAGA                I                            PUENTE NACIONAL         1
SAN ANDRE8            S                            SN GIL                  1
SMN JOAQUIN           I                            SN JOSE MIRANDA         1
SAN IGUEL             I                            SOCOIRO                 1
SUAITA                1                             SUCRE                  1
VALLE DE SA  JOSE     1                             CABERA                 2
CALIFORNIA            I                            CA ITANEIO              2
CEPITA                I                             CHARTA                 2
CHIA                  2                            CONFINE                 2
COROMORO              2                            EL PLAYON               2
JORDAN                2                            LEBRIJA                 2
LOS SANTOS            2                             MATANZA                2
PALMAR                2                            PARAMO                  2
PINT                  2                             SANTA BARBARA          2
SURATA                2                             TON                    2
VETAS                 2                             AATOCA                 2
!



Ei                . .      . .g .ol     s
FSESSEESWoS £glEEEl08gE@l   l{f|X    i
Fo  Fo o Z Fo w S w _~~~~~i                      A



-46-
ANNEX I
COLOIGIA
RURAL DRVRLOP)0NT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
Formula for Selection of 602 Municiialities
The formula for selecting the 602 municipalities is as foilovot
(a) production potentialt and (b) socioeconomic conditions. A maxim:m of
55 percentage points was given for evaluating agricultural potential which
took into account four factors of the rural economy in each community as
followss Mi) 652 of each community's inhabitants had to be small farmers;
(ii) 70Z of their income had to originate from agriculture; (iii) 502 of
agricultural production was other than coffee; and (iv) there was a
critical mass of farmers in the veredas (comaunitylvillages) to ensure that
projects to be financed under the RDIP would have an impact on a
significant number of people and thus reduce cost per beneficiary. The
socioeconomic indicators were given a maximum of 45 points in evaluating
deficiencies in infrastructure and services in water supply and sanitation,
roads, education and health.



ANNEX 4
-47-                      Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPNENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM tRDIP)
Annual Planing. Programing. Apraisal and Execution of Projects
in the RDIP
Introduction
1.       This annex, which should be read in conjunction with DQI's
Operational Manual, describes bow DRI and the municipalities would plan,
identify, prepare, appraise, execute and supervise their jointly cofinanced
projects.
The following 6sumarizes the sequence of events by which the
Annual Investment and Operating Plans are prepared, approved and
subsequently budgeted for under the RDIP. See Bar Chart attached.
(i) Plamning commences in November, 14 months prior to the year for
which the Annual Investment and Operating Plans are being prepared
on the basis of indicative budgeting ceilings provided by DNP.
(ii)   DRIl's Planning Office in coordination with DRI Regional Offices
screen Community Profiles (Hunicipal Investment List) and submit
an Annual Investment Plan to the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) for
inclusion in the Ministry's budget which is then submitted to DNP
and National Council for Social and Economic Policy (CONPES) in
April;
(iii)   by mid-June, CONPES approves the Annual Investment Plan
provisionally and the Ministry allots DRI its budget for the next
year. DRI'then informs the municipalities of the sums it would
earmark for cofinancing projects included in the Annual Investment
Plan;
(iv)  with budgetary information as to their own resources and that from
DRI, the municipalities adjust their investment programs for
resubmission to their respective Municipal Councils;
(v)    by June 20, the Ministry of Finance (MOP) submits CONPES's
provisional budget (including BDIP projects) for approval by
Congress (due in November);
(vi)   By mid-August, the MOF informs DRI and the municipalities of their
provisional budgetary allocations, including their share of
tentative IVA taxes;
(vii) by October, DRI submits to the MOF its Annual Operating Plan
(which it prepares between March-October) and which expands on the
Annual Investment Plans by detailing the individual projects,
their cost and Implementation aspects;



ANNEX 4,
-48-                       Page 2 of 5
(viii)  In November, Congress approves the budget and MOP then authorizes
the budget for DRI by mid-December.
DRI Annual Project Planning and Prouranmina
2.       DRI uses a rolling plan to select projects for joint cofinancing
and implementation with the municipalities under the RDIP. DRI starts
planning in September and completes the process about 14 to 18 months
later. DRI needs all this time to consult vith national and regional
authorities and with the governments of the municipalities and
representatives of the rural community organizations to formulate its
lending strategy and hanmonize it with the national and local needs for
investments. During the first three months (September to November) DRI
consults with the National Planning Department (DNP), the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) the Regional Planning Council (CORPES) and the
Departmental Governments. By the end of November, the DNP gives DR!
indicative budgetary ceilings - Techos Indicativos de Programacion (TIP)
within which DRI can prepare its lending/cofinancing program with the
municipalities for the following year.
3.       Concurrently, the municipalities prepare a Two-year Development
Plan which is accompanied by a Two-year Investment Program. These programs
are project specific and list sources and tentative amounts which would be
available to finance the projects in the Investment Program. They are
compiled into project profile in the Municipal Investment List by the end
of February. The municipal governments identify projects, after close
consultation with DRI Committees and the cormunities at the municipal and
departmental level.  All projects in the RDIP must be listed in the
Municipal Projects Banks in order to qualify for cofinancing with DRI Fund
and other decentralized entities and to access to Value Added Tax (IVA)
funds.
4.       Between January and early March, DRI regional offices screen, on
the basis of the eligibility criteria in the Operational Manual
(prefeasibility stage) each of the project profiles prepared by the
municipalities on the basis of a standard format provided them by DRI.
During this first screening stage, DRI is careful to ensure that projects
submitted by the municipalities have been approved by the DRI Committees
and that all projects meet minimum technical, economic and environmental
requirement which are set out in the eligibility criteria. For example,
the eligibility criteria provides that DRI would not finance road projects
which traverse through nature reserves or protected areas. Similarly, no
watershed management and environmental protection projects can be financed
without tile relevant basic technical studies spelling out the problems and
possible solution for each catchment area. DRI also insists that the
municipalities issue letters of intent indicating their interest to
cofinance jointly approved projects before including projects in its Annual
Investment Plan as explained below.



AliliLL4
_49_                      Page 3 of 5
The Annual Investment Plan.
5.       Once the project has passed the initial screening, DRI's central
office in Bogota compiles the project profiles into the Annual Investment
Plan between February and March. The Plan lists the projects by sectors
and the tentative costs and the proposed financing plan. The Agrarian and
Public Investment Units of the DNP review in April the the Annual
Investment Plan and the tentative costs of all the projects and recommend
to the National Council for Economic and Social Planning (CONPES) how much
money to allocate to DRI for the proposed Investment Plan. By mid-June,
CONPES decides how much money to allocate for the agricultural sector, and
the MOA fixes DRIl's share of CONPES's quota. DRT informs the
municipalities about MOA's decision so they can prepare their financing
plans for the approved projects. DRI's allocations is incorporated into
the Government's budget wich is submitted to Congress in July for final
approval by November. Congress may return the draft budget to the DNP for
additional clarification prior to August 31.
6.       Following consultation between the Central Government and the
Congress, the Ministry of Finance informs, by mid-August, DRI and the
municipalities of any changes in their original budgetary allocation
forwarded to Congress as well as amounts of IVA resources which the
municipalities could expect to receive. On the basis of this information,
the mayors adjust their investment programs commensurate with the funds
approved by the municipal councils and s! imit the revised projects for
approval of the municipal councils in September. The municipal councils
have until November to approve them. DRI and the municipality wait until
Congress has formally acted on the budget in November to sign the
cofinancing and implementation agreements of these projects.
7.       The Planning Sub-Direction of DRI Fund is responsible for
coordinating the submission of the Annual Investment Plan, including the
tentative allocation of the budgetary resources. It also informs the DRI
regional offices and the departmental authorities about the TIP.
8.       On the basis of the project profiles, DRI prepares its Annual
Operating Plan. This Plan specifies the actions the municipalities and DRI
will have to take to bring each project for appraisal and execution,
including the time table for this purpose. The Operating Plan makes it
possible for DRI Fund to forecast the amount of money it would need for the
next year to process each project for preparation of feasibility studies,
proposals, appraisal and/or execution. To this end, DRI Fund prepares the
Cash Flow Plan (Plan de Caja) identifying its cash flow requirements in
order to implement the approved Operating Plan. DRI submits the Plan de
Caja to the Ministry of Finance for approval and release of the funds for
DRI to cofinance the approved projects with the municipalities. DRI will
submit the Annual Operating Plan each Septewber for review by the Bank and
IDB. The Bank and the IDB have received in January 1990, DRI's Annual
Operating Plan for its 1990 investment program.
Proiect Annraisal. Execution and Sunervision
9.       Anuraisal.  The eligibility criteria specify that all the
Watershed Management, Environmental Protection, Marketing, Fisheries



ANNEX 4
-50-                       Page 4 of 5
(CESPAS), Rural Roads, Water Supply and Sanitation projects require
feasibility and design studies as appropriate to justify their inclusion
for financing under the RDIP. The eligibility criteria spell out the
technical, economic, financial and institutional aspects which these
studies need  addressing.  The criteria is intended to serve as guidelines
for DRI staff in preparing the terms of reference for each study. Each
feasibility study would need to be reviewed by experts in each field and to
be signed off by DRI staff In the regionallor in Bogota as appropriate
before cofinancing and implementation contracts can be concluded.
10.      Similarly, the eligibility criteria provides that all Technology
Adaptation and Extension; Rural Women; Tralning and Community Organization;
and Strengthening of DRI and the municipalities projects require submission
of detailed proposals, statement of objectives, costs, schedules, expected
output, and in the case of Technology Adjustment and Extension, an economic
analysis of cost benefits, among others, In order to be included for
financing under the RDIP. The eligibility criteria serve as guidelines for
reviewing each proposal prior to approval.
11.      The municipalities would be generally responsible for contracting
the feasibility studies for roads, water supply and sanitation projects.
They will be assisted by the DRI regional office. The RDIP would finance
such studies under the Strengthening of DRI and the Municipalities
(Support to Project Preparation, Apoyo a la Preparacion de Proyectos (APP).
Projects included in the Annual Investment Plan would need to justify the
eligibility for access to financing under the APP as spelled out in the
Eligibility Criteria. The municipalities would be responsible for the
technica3 supervision of the studies, however, given their relative
technical weakness, DRI is expected to do the bulk of the supervision
through its regional offices. DRI would be responsible for contracting
entities to help prepare proposals for those projects not requiring
feasibility studies as noted in para. 10 above. DRI plans to contract
public entities (SENA, ICA) or Universities and Comite Cafeteros who would
also cofinance part of the preparation of such proposals/studies.
12.      The following arrangement will be in place for supervising studies
under RDIP. One official from the relevant regional office will be
specifically appointed to follow-up on each stody, depending on time
availability and capabilities. He or she will oversee and approve the
terms of reference of the study and the team hired to carry it out. He or
she will keep abreast of the study's proceedings. Once a study has been
completed, he or she will prepare a swmuary of results and conclusions and
recommend to DRI management whether to approve the project, redesign and/or
drop the project from the RDIP.
13.      Pro1ect Anproval. In line with the decentralization reforms, DRI
would shift more authority and responsibility for approval and supervision
of projects to its regional offices. To this end, DRI is preparing a
specific proposal which would spell out in detail the authority and
responsibility of the Regional Directors to approve projects for
cofinancing and those projects which would be approved at headquarters.
The regional offices will be responsible for the day-to-day supervision of
projects and they will have authority to make changes in order to resolve
outstanding problems affecting progress of ongoing projects with
necessarily having to refer back to Bogota for approval, depending on the



5~~~~~~~~~
Page 5 of 5
circumstances. DRI has the flexibility of cancelling, adding or changing
the implementation of any of the projects in its Annual Operational Plan.
without having to request authorization for this from the Central
Government. This is possible because the budget for the Annual Operational
Plan is approved for the overall program, not for specific projects in the
Plan. Thus, DRI can switch funds from one project to another, as long as
it stays within the overall approved allocations of the Plan de Caja. The
next critical step is for DRI and borrowing municipalities and cofinancing
partners to sign the cofinancing and execution contracts for each project.
14.      Cofinancing and ImDlementation Contracts.  DRI and the
municipalities as well as other decentralized entities will pool scarce
resources (IVA, in kind contributions, government grants) to jointly
finance priority investment projects under the RDIP. The detailed cost
sharing of each project under the RDIP would be spelled out in cofinancing
contracts. No projects would be financed under the RDIP unless they are
accompanied by a specific cofinancing and execution contract. The
cofinancing contracts would define all the contractual obligations and
privileges among the partners.
Project Imolementation
is.      Tbie municipalities would, in principle, sign contracts for actual
implementation of rural roads, water supply and sanitation and extension
services projects. These will involve separate contracts for construction
and supervision (Interventoria) in case of civil works for roads and water
supply and sanitation projects. The municipalities would contract directly
with the executing agencies for providing extension services.



FIGURE 1.
T-2          --T.                                                        -   T
SEP. OCT. NOV. DEC. JAI. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. StP. OCT. NOV. DEC. JAN. FEIL
M  lolpalnv   tU                 .
...Pl Rian
.~~~~~~~ .C P. warl bugdg                              n 
ed
*AO&   de Caa
EKECUMlONI
D          Ps AalO     Plan  Pll Cal   >
c >          SW FBg dof task
* = Rtl f4 ft~



-53-
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
Summarv of DRI's Cofinancina Matrix (X) (CM)
with Municivalitieslentities
DRI Cofinancing Matrix (XI
Lowest             Iiahest
Extension                               45                 95
Technology Adaptation                   42                 70
Extension worker training               70                 70
Training and community Organization    17                  95
Watershed management and
environmental protection              20                 90
Aquaculture                             20                 80
CESPAS*                                 60                 90
Rural vomen                             55                 95
Rural,marketing                         60                 95
Rural roads                             35                 95
Vater supply and sanitation             40                 70
Institution building                    90                 90
* Small Scale Fishing Support Centers
Potential Cofinancina Sources
(a)   Central Government (Decentralized Institutions/Others)
-    =ICORA (extension); ICA (transfer of technology and training);
INDERENA (watershed management, envirorment); INP (fisheries);
SENA (training); Caja Agraria (credit extension), PFDU via credit
(vater supply and sanitation); and ENCOPER (marketing studies and
investments);
(b)   Devartments. Municigalities and Localities
-    Regional Development Corporations, Departmental Secretariats,
NGOs, (CORPAS, FEDERCAPE, (coffee-grower associations), rural
cooperatives);
-    Departmental financial institutions (e.g. Antioquia, Valle,
Risaralda, Santander, Caldas and Boyaca);
-    In addition DRI municipalities could also contributes (i) their
own funds over and above IVA; and (ii) in kind such as equipment,
land, materials and labor
1/ DRI proposes to cofinance each project in the RDIP on the basis of the
CM. The contributions toward the financing of any project may range
from a low of 172 to as high as 95? of total project cost based on the
sample of typical projects in the 1990 RDIP. DRI's cofinancing
percentage averages 752.



-54-                      Page 1 of 4
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTHMENT PROGRAm (RDIP
ImPuesto al Valor Aaratado (IVA) - Value Added Transfer
Backaround
1.       The sales tax transfer was created by Law 33 of 1968, and thzough
a series of laws during the 1970s. Basically these resources were devoted
to social security pensions (departmental), secondary education and most
importantly, the municipalities. In 1983, the sales tax was expanded to a
value added tax (IVA). Via decree 232 in the same year, S0Z of IVA
revenues were allocated as follows: 25Z to departmental municipalities,
1.5Z for the national territories, and 3.5S for the social security funds
for departmental governments.
2.       In 1986, Law 12 was passed which was designed to bring about
improvements in the finances of smaller municipalities and brought about
major changes in the sales tax transfer. Law 12 has three important
objectives:
a. To strengthen the smaller municipalities, both by giving them more
resources and by encouraging their own fiscal efforts5
b. To transfer to municipalities certain national responsibilities
equal in amount to the amount of additional revenues transferred;
and
c. To increase the efficiency of the local sector; by reducing the
number of agencies working at that level and by increasing the
capacity of local institutions.
3.       The major changes introduced by Law 12 wires (a) the increase in
the proportion shared of the value-added tax from 30S to 50S by 1992 and
especially the share going to small municipalities.
TRANSMER OF VALUE-ADDED TAX
(as a percent of total)
1988     1989     1990     1991    1992
Municipalities-all      26.4      27."     27.5     28.0    28.5
Additional to
MunicipalitiesclO0,000
population 1        3.8       6.0      9.0     12.5    16.8
Social Security Funds    3.5       3.8      3.8      3.8     4.0
ESAP                     0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1
IGAC                     0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1
Other                    0.6       0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5
Total Transfer         34.5      37.5     41.0     45.0    50.0
/1 In the 1985 Population Censug, 983 municipalities (97Z of total of
1,009) had less than 100,000 population,



ANNEX 6
-55-                       Page 2 of 4
(b) the introduction of an incentive formula for small municipalities to
increase property tax (see para. 5); (c) the use of population as reflected
in the 1985 census as the sole basis for sharing: (d) the additional funds
(3.8Z in 1985) for municipalities in excess of the 26.4Z (1988 share) will
be spent on investments, this will increase from 3.82 in 1988 to 16.82 by
1992; (e) a portion to be transferred to the Public Administration
Institute (ESAP) and the National Cadastre Agency (IGAC) agencies which
provide training for 1ocal level officials and revise property values; and
(f) a timetable for the national government to reorganize and transfer
functions toward the 1992 deadline.
4.       As per Law 12 IVA transfers for investments can be applied to the
following types of activities 
(i)   construction, expansion and maintenance of water supply and
sewerage systems, ponds, wells, septic tanks and water treatment
plants and pipes;
(ii)   construction, paving and remodelling of streets;
(iii)   construction and maintenance of community and country roads,
bridges and river ports;
(i-)   construction and maintenance of transportation centers;
(v) construction and maintenance of primary and secondary schools;
(vi)   construction and maintenance of health dispensaries and retirement
homes;
(vii)   construction and maintenance of cultural houses (museums,
auditoriums);
(viii)   construction and maintenance of marketing squares and commercial
fairs;
(ix)   treatment and disposal of garbage;
(x)   extension of the network of urban and rural power;
(xi)   construction and maintenance of camps, sports facilities and
parks;
(xii)   reforestation for the protection of watersheds;
(xiii)   payment of public external or internal debt incurred for
investment expenditures;
(xiv)   investment in bonds in FFDU; and
(xv)   other items with the previous authorization of DNP.
5.       For the proposed DRI Investment program, the component for
technical assistance is not specifically covered in the above list. In
resolution number 61 of January 14, 1987, DNP specifically authorized the
use of IVA transfers for investments by municipalities in technical
assistance programs to small producers who are p&rt of the DRI program.
6.       In the calculation of the share of the transfers to the group of
municipalities with less than 100,000 population, the formula takes into
consideration, first the proportional share based on the population of a
municipality versus the total of the group, plus an adjustment based on the
average tax rate in a municipality versus the average tax rate for the
group. This in affects transfers more funds to municipalities with higher
tax rates and reduces transfers to municipalities with lower than average
tax rates. This acts as an incentive to municipalities to increase tax
rates and generate more internal funds for operations and investment. The
formula is stated as followst



ANNEX 6
-56-                          Page 3 of 4
IVAI     - PI   IVAT - HAVRE x (AVETR - MTR)
w
IVAI     - IVA investment funds allocated to municipalities
pI       - Population of a municipality
P2       - Total Population of all municipalities with c100,000 population
IVAT     * IA Rate for transfer of funds for investments to municipalities
with population <100,000
hAVRE    - Municipality's total assessment value of private real estate.
AVETR    - Average tax rate all municipalities
MTR      - Average tax rate for a municipality.
Proiected Transfers
7.       Projections of total IVA collections and transfers have been made
by DNP. From this data base DXI has prepared another data base with
projected IVA transfers to DRI municipalities for investment.
Projections of IVA Transfers
(billions-of current pesos)
1989    1990     1991      1992    1993       1994
Total IVA collected           446.8   573.3    735.7    944.1   1211.6    1555.1
Transfers to Municipalities  147.4   209.3    298.0    427.7    548.9         704.5
Transfers to    '
<100,000 - Max. to operations 58.9    75.6        96.9    124.6    159.7      205.0
- Min. to investment 31.5    59.1    103.7    176.0    225.9        290.0
Transfer to DL! Munici4Dalities
Number of Municipalities      382      454      534       602       602       602
IVA minimum transfer fors
Investment - (Col$ 1988)    4.2        7.2     11.6      17.6    18.4       19.2
- Current         5.3     11.3     22.3      41.3    52.6       67.0
Source: DNP and DRI
8.       The above table shows the estimated total funds available to DRI
municipalities for investment. The municipalities will utilize these funds
for cofinancing of DRI project activities but in addition will have to
cover their other investments, such as, rural education, health services,
and electrification (see para. 4).



ANNEX 6
-57.                   Page 4 of 4
Disbursement System
9.       Disbursemeats will be made in 6 bimestre payments throughout the
year as follows:
Period                  Last day for Payment
January-February                   April 29
March-April                        June 30
May-June                           August 31
July-August                        October 31
September-October                  December 31
November-December                  February 28 (following year)
The first five payments will be based on 902 of the projected transfers for
the year. The final payment in February of the following year will include
any adjustment necessary to correct the total transfer for the year to
actual based on actual IVA collections. In 1987, the actual IVA transfer
was 94Z of the projected transfer for that year indicating that the
projections should be a reasonable basis for planning the expenditure              *
levels in the DRI project based on the expected level of transfers to the
mnicipalities for livestment.
10.      Decree 2447 of 1987 established the above times and sets out the
disbursement process. The Director General's office of the Budget in the
Ministry of Finance will prepare the payment request at least 10 days
before payment is due and send it to the Accounting Section for signature.
The Accounting Section has 2 days to complete and send it to the
Administration Section for approvaL. This section has 2 days to approve
and sign and send it on to the Controloria for fiscal control and in 3 days
this section has to send it on to the Treasury for payment and the Treasury
has 3 days to send the funds to the Banks (accounts of the Municipalities).



-58-
me. of Peietet   TOWl Cmt        lb. of "oet
Total Coot      to be No.dy fW       of            wi *tt Cofinola
No. of     of "Soawd         WI     nti         Pre              C oee
projest. PeOJe                                       cmS mi BIIton)       by 60/               of1 Bi on)    bI *OO
C.) Ae,.1euOura I ~ e Prob
1. Toaeolosw Adltetio                   US0           2.8                                   2.3              n.e.
a.   e-i U.O                           .- 70         11.0                                  11.0
S. wate _hd N        *oease a"
b,roAg     i protoot4               4            1.1                  a               1.0              e.g.
4. PFIseries
5101I1-SOUtS, PliAerp
cente  (CNNA/ a,                 s           i.e                   0 o
- Auiltr.                           8           0.9                                   0.9                 0
S. lbrhettiu,gi                                                                             0                   0
*i) ?pgtnlu enl Cntt  ir  gtiea
3. Co_itw  Orggai.
creaies Spite                    gm0 as         2.0                260                2.0             2166
2. Rural  _a.                   s'  Al                1.5                 870               1.5               W7
8. ?eeaolow Aduotel  and
&Oluatlom                         US at         0.5                 US                0.5               208
grb.tleg                            1480 S/       1.12               14'0               1.1              1480
4. M4I Stsff                           e..            0.6                e.g. A/            0.60             a.&.
S. lbaielpaiitie.                       10o A         0.19                1R                0.19              180
1. Rde                                   42          12.0                  dl              12.0               42
2. Water Suply and Sitatien             80           21.0                  41              10.8                41
Cd)  t..tIe.tIee UteehnSeo
1. TeohaloaS Assistn.ee end Pd eiaveetel
Stdle                                             -                    -               8.0
Iata                             LM             I"                LZ                 MA
C  auid fl_.w a CPS  projon. with tr own reeuraw ad depee_.dIe an outeo, of evslugtioe hj
end of 11 of thee bV outside G_1suitat, deelalee *111 be _hde uewtne - *a fleme COPAS * Oor the     In the future.
iL  CRM  weuld *lame 0 v*rtetia  projeete with their oam resuree twA daoemadige   ojitome of ovelu"11m b   d of 1601
of thee by outside _oegitgnt., fe"leon  wIll be mdo uhetlwr and under wht conditions to fieum. moder the *i1  marketing
Projects lii the future.
S/ Nusher of oemr-e/w,sa
i/ Ccourae nd training *rogrow unde prraltia,.



-59-
ANNEX 8
COLOMBIA
RURAL INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
PREPARATION OP TECHNICAL ADAPtATION PROJECTS
WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF THE ZORAL PLAN OF TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
DRI AND ENTITIES                            ''DRI AND MUNICIPAL
OPMULATION OF ZONAL                      > |NEGOTIATION OF PLAN (MAYORS)
PIAN.
---------->  PROJECT-               > MUNICIPALITIES
ii~~~~~~~    1
IDENTIFICATION OF                               FGRMLIN OF
NEEDS                       -------->    MUNICIPAL PLANS
INSUFFICIET       WITH
TECHNOLOGY    TECHNOLOGY
TECHNOLOGY  I TRANSFERENCE  |                       PROPOSAL OF
ADAPTATION    OF TECHNOLOGY ----------->    OPERATIVE DRI PLAN
ICA      TECHNICAL       TRAINING OF          NEGOTIATION AND
ASSISTANCE     EXTENSIONISTS           COFINANCING
LIBRE        rIA, SENA
_ CONCUR-OTHER INSTIT.
RENCIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-60-
AM=E 9
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVZLOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRM  (RDIP)
Current and Potential Yields (CRECED)
ICA in its CRECEDs has compared current technology used by farmers
with that which was adjusted and recommended by ICA, under farm conditions,
for different crops and In different ecological zones. The following table
gives a comparison of these two levels of technology for different crops
and for different areas.  The.purpose of the technology component is for
the CRECEDs to adjust tecbnology available in ICA to the farm conditions,
in order to get higher productivity and yields. These yields have been
used as reference for preparing the seven farm models for the RDIP.
bistrict        Croia                           Yields (Rig/a)
Farmer Tech.          Recomended Tech.
Tunja         Cana Panelera             10,000                  18,000
leans                        450                  1(000
Maize                        750                   1,600
Potatoes                 12.500                  15,500
liheat                       900                   2,000
Yuca                       3,750                 15,000
Maize & Beans                700                   2,000
150                    S00
Pasto         Peas                         700                   1,200
Cana Panelera              5,000                 12,000
Beans                        750                  1,300
Maize (Bot)                1,700                   2,700
(Medium)            2,000                   3,000
(Cold)              2,300                   3,800
Sur Huila     Cana Panelera              5,000                  10,000
Beans                        600                  1,000
Maize                      1,000                   2,200
Banana                     5.000                 10,000
Yuca                       7,000                  10,000
Riosucio      Cana Panelera              2,500                   6,300
Beans                        500                     900
Banana                     7,480                 24,600
Yuca                       7,000                 15,000



COONSIBA
RURAL DgVEVtlP INVESTIJT PROCAH (RfIP)
TRAINING
N 'of aIl            R of            Wht   t                                                IIRI
1W. at 1~~~~~a5nhz~~~g  Tminh                          Ev~~~zents    amd1 frmae                                  ca Ost (.  uIk)'            Cel9um
TSp of 7ihtgls       Trdhf                                                                                                       199         192i  S  t(tLS)
PRopect,         fll:Utt     AWe of Oms "f c1                        1991P   9t w       1990   9144    1990-91           19      19      19       1       1       10
I  E>mem ZIGMWM2 MD lOWMG*                                     
1.1    Prttaion ad       SI         lbt to wad=           1  czII dtie/   1,430    5,200   39.,m   95,99         310     310     443     41l     379      37      414      i
c   tatldm of    AI  '        -WdUt  aSd tO        11 alttees        1,230    2,830    S,994  26,980      310     310     382     219     219      219     218    -  0
131  _m l   3/               prasprkpte
In etuc proet
1.2    Teducal/f -    US            Tedwclgy Ortl           Fu  in mtm   4,200   13,790   81,873 327,500         310     310   1,30D   1,133   1,0o3   1,013   1,112       3S
to _  trahd       11w        ems  toblp            ar. Pm,ms
for fnr 2/        mm31         br   nm eA t1m
1.3    TWdO              11et O               mitlm       Rum=s to                                                               125                                     t10
VDml                         to prqIm   meaIm-      Km. Pn&M
M       f            Gsatts                                                           * 
2.    WsUO S SWcIFIC  taIM
2.3    ?etoolop                     A     aM e      to     "ajct e tt*r       155     lO         151   1,19      S00     SW       78       7       3      152       2      5
ddtatim  ad    gm           oIa4a1 Ibdim-   spemcIalt
Ae ute aclel                 I q     ad   D muIim
WOW=1  _ acti                                        tu60                      810       460   4,660     400     4M00     16       8t      t1    81        M0       50
rns
2.2   IbI8ir             US|        Ibadedl                 a mO
2Il        to luip lmhi aT _wCm/                     810    4,OM0   17,50 15,.0        310      30      252     3       394      247     28M      53
FM"       Samia                  4hidtam             230      840      12in    on      310      310      n       6S      65      65      IS    t1
Ftz  cn. tediqe    * DIw
lapi     ml   vis   IIur                  40     3A1,430    130      M      310      310     12S    1in      1        12S     1n       30
2.3       V   i In       im         p      agadx. ad             uq    65       0    3,150      370    1800      90      g00     S        766     673     m       769      5     o n 
Vlam              171        p- tte. in Om   In   m                                                      *
Dmslqaaat         lsIWO      pWojectM. Tdedm.      uma
urted                                  .                                                                                                        Oses
2.4    W1i awly ad   SUS             1dduy elatd    Pan.                      231    1,270    3,500  19,200    310       310      72      98      98      9g       98      75
S.nltetlon #/                auses. Pamg4te        Ruarl n.
4da~Iud ptlclp.    IIm ai ito



V of?ahftw          H 4of          UdtWst
ryp of SIpt    '1nb                                               B_     _          uftdtle m          (aG                     (t (iL  8 I1*              Of
ltaje           IStiS      Tye of (kawm           mufle.nef        1990    914      1990   91-94             91     1991)   1991   19 19   1993    1994   1990
2.5    SwaZRnusw4/   ISA        Bo   tb oWpdA          Frs wrnrl           42      233    1,060   9,90      310    310      13      26      26      3       6      SD
I taI cimui7        Nowa SM
Teaay  ._50itei   pnmha
2.6    la ln         .  OM S       bw to erpen          Farne gtaml         4       65    1.60   9,9960    310    310      1.2    4.4    5.1       s.r    5.1      75
cast oRiellotam  na        ftamt a coumy        wm   DU
jwotecSnt 31               pticmlai   -           e n  kn5t
Tbdudmliy           tWo.*au3
P~~~~~~~~rat Ymg Pl                         xati
-  m0td   nsX          Mmdta
2.7    PidiSe  '/  - .
3.1       jtIam         NW         Wut#SmcoM FmI         =uISi-             70     28D      30D 6/ 1,2      360    360      25      25    23        25      25    1i
5/                                 Secretw  -of
Of_ Of
~jzuumtln1      huta-   beumatatiomof          mm                   13      67      3  7/1.2       2       25t,     50  91 2        25     509/   3       1m0
IbdiL A/Sfat.    I~  qlgiatie ad terns  Mm'                   52     10           1 el0    1        .O        5.2    S.?    5.2    2.6    2.6        IOW
p'-tea  mtvu    offeot    s        l ntbarmS    ha                  21       42  ICO         4      1M    100D    Li    2.1  2.1                           M1
-~~~~~h d &- -AdaU
3*7    ?jmtttIntlmmi     eu1t- .  oect wa1uee,m~    SM fd PS taff         g/       ,gt      360 55_.54  22.00  22,LO      32.3   49.S   32.3   32.3    33          t
Ots-1s. kD&_*       mewr.. stif.
-n  P         -1da  ad aft .taff 
at. arA     _                        'rvil'
.~~~~- a. aqwl
*      ai udkft of fist   mu   %uel*ions to           of fts ad mm peC pYo
1,    ThAs    mtntde  pjetm in lMterdW            gt  aw1zwitv Wr &jly and saga
we Ti oupum      t m3de wseJeet in RIhdmde ad &rat bus
caetm Of ddb         amt we Sia  !n the (1.1)  awiu ard  gpnretfn of I  Dmurdty                                           t
F/    (beta Of thIs utheu    t are Inedi te do (1.2) pnte.*f  ard wmeUtta, of sc1uI:a aid b tin   aluq ad                    ea
TI    These activitIes for t990 it be fiiesd with  men   of ( for the Mr U amttw. Mr tIe 199190  ioas  i be applta*le to ne )Iw.                                         o
11/ 7/  Ibshr of meuniipaties  1; ad uer of baefcu 3.                                                                                                                      O
1/ -   Sse of m;iipefitss 30 wa u    of bmefiades 300.
The cost of t*o  activities *aft  190 ad 1993 to uxh higher lc       of dhe pqmti  ad   v           of awieitul xdiliz a1 for the aMlct*titt
DI ,1/ 1tdMn die SM  RwA Tsatng It wU be diffc.t to detine the ushe of          b      of the 4iverut of typotogial   ts. e.L. a -iar a a         ldthu
or aitM  Sed pra
ids fig. i deriawtva f    the ml-m   de bpatacn - 199"



-63-                           ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROAM (RDIP)
Airicultural Credit Polic, in Colombia
Credit RequArements for Pronosed DRI Program
1.       The Government of Colombia's policy in agriculture has always
been, and still is, to provide a certain degree of protection to
agricultural production. One important protection measure is that the
agricultural sector has been assigned priority access to credit resources
under special conditions and terms. This priority is based on
agriculture's importance to production, exports, income and employment; the
risks inherent ia agricultural production; and the need to compensate for
macroeconomic, trade and exchange rate policies, which have often had a
negative impact on the agricultural sector. The Government has therefore
viewed low-cost agricultural credit as an instrument for promoting
production of certain crops and adoption of new technology, for protecting
or increasing the incomes of specific sectors of the farm population, and
for improving income distribution.
2.       The resulting agricultural credit policy has pursued three main
objectives:
(a) to supply institutional credit to the agricultural sector at below
market rates;
(b) to improve the sector's income level, especially that of farmers;
and
(C) to stimulate agricultural production and productivity.
The main policy instruments used to pursue these objectives vere forced
investments to create the necessary resources for FFAP, subsidized interest
rates, and directed credit allocation.
3.       Resources.  Agricultural credit in Colombia is guided by existing
legislation and banking regulations. The Junta Monetaria (Monetary Board)
which governs the banking system, is responsible for regulating the
implementation of Law 5 of March 1973, which created an agricultural fund,
Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (FFAP). FFAP is the major beneficiary of
resources collected by the Banco de la Repdblica (BOR) from the banking
system.
4.       The main mechanisms to transfer resources from the banking system
to FFAP are the forced investments. Under this mechanism banks and other
financial institutions are required to invest in certain types of bonds
('Al bonds) and other financial instruments with interest rates
substantially below market. In 1988, these investments totalled
Col$ 121,000 million. The required level of such investment is expressed
as a percentage of the institutions' portfolio and/or deposits. Another
type of investment--reserve replacement investment (ISE)--involves
authorizing commercial banks and financial corporations to earmark a
percentage of theit reserve requirements for the purchase of certain types
of bonds. ISE is also a form of forced investment. in the sense that the



ANEX 11
-64-                          Page 2 of 4
only alternative is to leave funds with the BOR as reserve requlrements at
zero interest rate. The bonds (most importantly for agriculture,
Resolution 39/789 bonds) pay higher interest than "Al bonds but still le8s
than market rates.
5.       Forced investments totalled about Col$ 253,000 million in 1988,
and 582 was allocated to FFAP, the agricultural financing fund. To
transfer the funds obtained through forced investment into credit flows to
the rural sector, FFAP functions as a traditional refinancing mechanism for
BOR. The three agriculture-oriented state-owned financial institutions,
the Caja Agraria, Banco Cafetero and Banco Ganadero, are the principal
users of FFAP funds, with Caja Agraria the largest user of the three. FFAP
rediscounting permits the expansion of credits by rediscounting their loans
through FFAP, financial intermediaries (Caja Agraria, banks and financial
corporations) can leverage their own funds by four/five times, depending on
the redaiscount margin (presently ranging between 70? and 952). FFAP
rediscounts mainly loans made to medium and large farmers, but also loans
to small farmers (normally made by Caja) who meet FFAP's lending criteria.
These funds are available to all banks on a first come, first served basis.
Final credit beneficiaries with access to funds mobilized through forced
investment pay interest at rates substantially below market.
National System for Aaricultural Credit (SYSTEM)
6.       A law has been recently passed which created a new system for
agricultural credit and forced investment funding of agricultural
development in Colombia (see working paper re: Agricultural Credit in
Colombia). The new system is expected to be operational by June 1990.
7.       Obiectives.  In general terms the system will supply an adequate
level of credit with suitable conditions to the sector and prepare, issue
and implement credit policies.  Specific objectives includes increase
agricultural production, increase and strengthen the supply of capital to
the sector, increase rural employment, secure the basic food supply,
improve income distribution, increase export and improve the farmers social
and economic conditions.
8.       Structure.  The structure will comprise a managing committee, the
agricultural credit banks (Caja Agraria, Banco Cafetero, and Banco
Ganadero), and a new fund, FINAGRO, to replace Fondo Financiero
Agropecuario. The managing committee will comprise the Minister of
Agriculture, Chief of the National Planning Department, representative of
the Banco de la Republica (BOR), two representatives of the President and
one representative from the financial organizations.
9.       Main Imnact on Aericultural Credit.  The new system will be under
the control of the Minister of Agriculture instead of BOR. FFAP would be
replaced by FINAGRO which will be a mixed corporation with a maximum of 60S
of equity contributed by Government and controlled by the Minister of
Agriculture who will also control interest rates, directed credit both from
the fund and from the agricultural banks as well, and the level of forced
investment. The Collateral Agricultural Fund (a loan guarantee fund) would
be strengthened and provide the coverage for the small farmers who can now



-65-  .   .                         EX 21
Page 3 of 4
borrow on their signature for tarm  credit. While it is too soon to judge
the impact of the new system, the amount of credit and forced investments
in the present system is not expected to be reduced.
10.      Interest Rates.  With few exceptions, between 1975 and 1982 the
interest rates applied to most credit lines in the rural sector have been
negative In real terms and well below effective market-determined interest
rates. However, In the 1980s there has been a trend towards a slight
increase in most rates. In 1983 and 1984, when the inflation rate dropped
to 17-18S, most rates became positive, and the differential vis-a-vis
market rates decreased. The rates were, however, quite widely dispersed.
The following table shows the progress of interest ratess
Akricultural Credit Interest Rates
Intermediary
Institution
Effective            Market       Inflation
Y[ear             Interest Rates           Rate           Rates
1975                15-16.5               26.8            '23.2
1976                15-16.5               26.8             20.1
1977                15-16.5               26.8             33.9
1978                12-16.5               26.8             17.4
1979i               18-21.5               25.6            24.6
1980                21-24                 37.8             26.5
1981                21-24                 39.2             26.3
1982                21-24                 26.8             24.0
1983                21-24                 34.2             16.6
1984                21-2-                 35.5             18.3
1985                21-24                 35.0             22.4
1986          21.5-26.532.0               20.9
1987          19.3-29.0 al                32.0             32.3
1988          22.6-35.1 8I                38.0             28.1
1989          22.6-35.1 al                38.0             25.0
al  The low interest rate of 22.61 was applied only for seasonal crop
to small farmers which are allocated only about 20S of total FlAP
funds.
11.      On December 28, 1988, a nwly issued resolution of the Junta
Monetaria of the Banco de la RepOblica reduced the dispersion of interest
rates. Starting January 1, 1989, three rates have been set, two of which
for small farmers, 21.5S for seasonal crops and other short-te=m borrowing,
and 26.5Z for medium and long term, and the third rate, 28S, for all other
farmers for seasonal and other short-term borrowing. The rates have also
been made variable by tying them to the DTF interest rate (the yield of all
Certificates of Deposit--a market-determined cost of funds to the financial
intermediaries), with the first rate of 21.52 (nominal) to remain
5.'S points under the DTI? rate, the second 26.S2 to remain half-a-point
under and the third rate of 28Z to be at one point above the DTP rate. For
medium- and long-term borrowings of farmers other than small farmers, the
interest rate will ripe two points over the DTF rate. The same increase
will apply to marketing loans.



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
12.      Directed Credit Allocation. FFAP's funds are administratively
allocated to specific rural activities. The amount of credit provided is
in proportion to the costs of production involved in a particular activity.
The tzand is increasingly for FFAP to finance all agricultural products and
activities, including the purchase of land and livestock, and agricultural
marketing and processing activities, although this last credit line has
just begun operating. The three agricultural banks essentially grant
credit !or any financially viable agricultural investment, contingent on
the availability of funds. However, Caja's credit is to some extent
directed to target groups of beneficiaries (based on the level of their
assets), to specific areas (after natural disasters), or to specific crops.
All credit is tied up to the existence of extension assistancee provided
generally by Caja, but also by other development institutions operating in
the sector, such as ICA, INCORA and agricultural investment etc. This
enables first the presentation by the farmer of a professional investment
plan with his credit application, and most importantly, a competent follow-
up on his activities. This system has assured that agricultural credit
recoveries are satisfactory.



-67-                              ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 9
COLOHBIA
RURAL DEVELOPIENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM  (RDIP)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
LOCAL   FOREIGN  TOTAL
(US ml lion)             I
technology Adaptation and Extension    85.7      e.9    44.0    17.8
vaterahed lanasement and
'nvIronamtel Protection                 a.2      1.4      4.5      1.0
:Isherles                               5.4      8.1      0.4      8.4
?ural Woman                             5.9      2.2      8.1      8.2
t rketlng                               0.0      4.0    10.8       4.8
Training end Comunity Organlzatlon     16.7      4.2    20.9       0.8
lural Road.                            21.4   65.0    71.4    28.6
Voter Supply and Sanitation            12.5    23.3    88.0       14.8
3tr.ngtloemng ORT and MunicIpsittles    7.2      1.6      0.7      8.5
Total Basoline Costs                  118.9    99.4   218.8    85.3
'hyslcal Contingencies                  5.7      5.0    10.7       4.8
urTco Contingencies                     7.8    18.2    20.1    10.4
Total Program Cos                     127.4   122.8   2560.0    10.0
2inanctng Plan
-RI Fund
-Government Resources                  87.8      0.6    87.6    15.0
18.7    01.$    75.0    86.9
-lOB                                   18.?    61.8    75.o    86.o
-!o1,l~                                04.9   122.6   187.6    75.0
lunIcipalitlie and
Other Agencles                         82.5      0.0    82.5    25.9
Total Program Cost                    127.4   122.6   260.0   100.0
Estimated Oisbursements:
1990    1091 i       1992    1908     1914    1995    198    107      1990
---.--------US  S mill1 
Annusl                       8.0      8.9     7.5    12.0    11.2    1S.?    14.2          7.7      6.5
Cu-mlative                  8.6      6.6    138.    25.5       8.7    52.5    66.7    74.5    75.6
Economic Rate of Returns
Map:.



COMPONEN  COSTS                                                                           INX2
-68-PeNENr sOSPs  2- of 9
1       2        a        4        6    Total    FE%
(Cotl million)
APPUJED TEUQLNGY                                           ,\
-Adaptation Tdchnology                  45.60  895.0   400.9   400.0   400.0  1989.0          0.2
-Extensiom                            264580  800-.0  8690.0  8500.0  8U0O.0  16146.0
-Training Profesmionals  & Instructor    77.6    87.2   124.8    152.1   162.1    593.7
-Extenslonists                          81s    104.1   1S0.4   16Q.4   150.4   036.8
Total                                 3146.6   S858.8  4176.2  4202.6  42M2.5  19831.0         0.2
Contlngencies - Physical              167.8   179.8   206.8   219.1   210.1    966.7
- Price                  742.0  2019.1   8928.8   563.2  7958.8  20393.0
Total Component                       4045.9   5704.7  1810.2  10186.3  12866.9 40672.8
OR .                                  8182.9  4650.9  5837.9  7997.6   9728.4  81997.7
* LRTh                                             '
Rural Projects
-Physical Investments                  600.0   640.0    600.0   800.0   620.0   3840.0        0.5
-Promotional Studles and TA            120.0    80.0    120.0   120.0   120.0   560.0         0.2
-Sub-total                             929.Q0  72.9   920.0   920.9   920.0   4400.9          0.6
Staple Foods
-Iavestmenta - Assoclations             0.0      O.9      9.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.5
- Warehoses                 0.9     0.0       0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.5
-Prootilonal Studis and TA              80.0    80.0    40.0    40.0    40.0   210.0          0.2
q -Sub-total                                69.0    80.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    280.0          0.2
Total 9lJ.0   899.0   96O.0   960.0   960.0  4680.0                                           0.4
Continencies - Physical                 tO.0    40.0    40.0    46.0    48.0    284.0
- Price                  256.6   487.6   981.7  1446.6  2020.8   6194.8
Total Compnent                        1808.0  1827.8   1989.7  2468.5   9020.8  11018.8
DRI                                   1000.9  1921.7   1650.0  1987.6  2830.4   7777.7
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT and
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
-Improvement of cover                  68.0   217.6   890.0   80M.0   899.0   1135.6
-Recovery of Areas                 .   18.6    40.8       WOS     74.8    74.8    272.0
-Plans for 1anagement of glcroquenca   156.0   108.0                               284.0
-Studies and Monitoring                  2.2    24.4      4.0      4.0      4.0    88.8
-Traliing and Technical Assistance      81.8   150.6    28.0       5.6      9.0   210.7
-Total                                 27141   541.4    895.9  -384.6   876.8  197.09         0.8
Contingencies - Physical                18.6    27.1    19.6    19.2    18.9         96.5
- Price                  60.4    815.1  384.6   647.9   651.6  1965.6
Total Component                        811.1   968.6   789.4  901.7   1849.2  4095.0
DRI                                    264.9   66t.7   608.2  t1l.1    01.    8044.6



ANNEX 12
-69-                                 Page 3 of 9
1       2       8       4       5   Total         FES
RURAL WOMEN -                                    (COLS mlli  on)
-Investment                        194.7    88.2    42.2    25.1    25.1   870.a      0.9
-Shared Cost Technical Assistance  244.1   488.3   490.3   441.8   472.4  1991.6      0.2
-Technical Assistance              148.8   249.8   281.9   254.2   2.7  11s5.9        0.2
-Tots I                            582.1   7$.5   078.5   720.6   769.2  5111.8       0.8
Cotibngonces - Physical             29.1    88.3    88.7    8.9   3s.5   175.0
- Price               141.2   442.8   649.9  1916.9  104.7  8754.8
Total Component                    752.6  1247.1  1887.1  1772.7  2U2.4  7441.7
DRI                                510.0   86t.    982.1  1217.5  1588.2  5111.1
TRAININO AND COWMUN  ORANUATION
-Producers Training               180.0   866.6   868.6   066.6   111.6  4911.4       D.2
-Community Organlzatons            824.8  569.0  600.0   59.0  65a.0  2824.8          0.2
-Producers A sociations            449.0   438.6   438.6   438.6   438.6  22e3.4      0.2
TOt l                             257.8  1895.2  1850.2  1895.2  1959.2  0989.1       0.2
Contingenies - Physical            128.7    90.8    90.3    9098    52.5   452.0
- Price               69.9  1016.8  1697.6  2471.8  1987.5  7779.6
TOtal Component                   38931.6  2911.3  8593.9  4880.6  0999.2 17279.7
OR!                               2879.9  2998.6  2588.4  8189.7  2221.9 12417.6
Saull Sca le(Cspas)
-Investments                       19.9   199.9   215.9   216.9   2156.    843.0      0.6
-technical Assistance              222.6   222.6   222.6   222.6   222.0  1118.9      9.8
-Sub-total                         822.6   822.6   437.6   487.6   437.6  1958.0      0.4
Aquac uIture
-4atchery Inforastructuro          11.9  1u7.9        4.0    n.9      o.9   883.9     9.0
-Technical Asslstance to FPrsers    80.9    98.0   112.0   128.0   144.0   569.9      0.2
-Training Extensionists             69.0   107.0    89.0   8n.9    89.0   468.0       0.2
-Technology DevY and Reserch        75.9    90.0    45.0    45.9    45.9   399.9      0.2
-Sub-total                         415.9   490.9   819.0   283.0   278.0  1im6..      0.8
-Totel                             787.6   722.6   747.6   729.6  n7.6  8644.9        0.4
Contingencies - Physical            86.9    36.1    37.4    36.o    85.8   182.2
- Price               185.1   429.2   748.   1951.0  1455.1  8864.9
Tots CIompnent                     959.5  1188.0  1528.7  1803.4  2299.4  7691.1
DRI                                787.8   975.8  1255.1  1484.8  1811.5  614.6



-70-                           ANNEX 12
Page 4 a9
1        2        8        4        6      Totel       FES
(ColS million)
lOADS
-Studies and Design                    143.6   460.0   400.0   252.0               1320.0
-Road Investment                      8132.0  530.0  9a40.60  4783.0  5917.0 2962740
-Total                                3206.0   6340.0 3600.0   7049.0   598?.0 30947.0         0.7
Contingenciet   - Phy.lcal             164.0   292.0   440.0    362.0    299.4   1647.4
- Price                  926.1  3842.9  9744.6  11592.9  1014.2  49619.6
Total Component                       439.1   9974.3  13984.6  19884.9  20209.6  72518.9
DRI                                   341.4   ?172.0  13*49.9  13650.1  14524.2  52137.5
OATER SUPPLY AUND SANITATION
-Investments                           6*3.6   3078.8   3942.0   3842.0   8342.0  18993.4      6.7
-Studies and Design Assistance         339.2   339.2   339.2    339.2    169.6  152.4          0.2
Total                                 1232.8   3418.0 9361.2  3631.2   3511.0  15524.8         0.7
Contingencles - PhysIcal                61.6    176.9   164.1    184.1    175.0    76.2
- Price                  342.1  2217.2  4015.9  5901.4  8012.2  20648.8
Total Component                       1638.5  5606.1   7681.1   9826.6  11699.4  36649.3
uRI                                   1170.7   4174.6   5686.5   706S.3   3411.9  264905.
STRENOTHENC DRI AND MUNICVPALITIES
DRI AUENCY
-Incremental Staff 1/                  153.1   153.1   158.1   153.1   131.4   748.3            0.0
-Technieal Assltance                   .71.0   167.2    35.4    47.4        37.2   340.2       0.2
-Equipment and Vehicles                  0.0   345.5    53.1     03.8    69.6   W52.2           0.9
-Program Promotton                      62.0    66.0    26.0    26.0        26.9   195.6        0.8
-Training   .0.0    49.3    -32.5                                  32.5     32.6    147.3      0.3
-Evaluation 2/                         120.0   169.0   100.0        0.0    $0.0   440.0         0.2
-Sub-Total 311.1   980.6   490.1   342.6  3a6.9  2426.5                                        0.3
MUNICIPALITIES
-Technical Asstistance                 385.7   337.4   179.0   134.3   112.0   1139.9           0.2
-Training                                0.0    51.9    51.9    27.6        27.8   159.4        0.3
-Sub-total                             386.7   389.3   221.9    212.6    139.3   1349.3         0.2
Total                                  761.8  1319.9   622.0   655.4   496.7  3775.8            0.2
Contingencies - Physical                39.1    66.0      31.1     27.3     24.6    188.3
- Price                  182.5   730.6    PCL$    752.3  092.9  3179.8
Total Component                       1063.4  2122.5  1252.6  1385.5  1456.4  7144.4
DOR                                   1003.4  2122.5  1232.6  1335.5  1450.4  7144.4
1/ To boecontrceted by IICA
2/ Funds In Year 1 are for the 'Base LOne study
Funds In Year 2 are for a review of RDIP and develop a graduation policy for WuntIpaltittt-.
Funds tn Year 6 are for the Ipact Evluation study



ANN~EX 12
-71-                                 Page 5 of 9
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Current CoIS  tIllIon)
1    \  2         8   ~ 4           6      Total       U
Toehnology Adaptation and Extension   4046.9  6174.7   9310.2  10165.0  12805.9  40072.0        20.0
Watershed and Envlronment               851.1    188.0    799.4    951.7   1049.2   4036.0       2.0
Fishories                               969.5   1188.0   1528.7  108.4   2208.4   7691.1        3.68
Rural Women                             752.6   1247.1   1957.1   1772.7   2812.4   7441.7       B.7
Marketing                             1808.6  1827.8   1989.7   245.$   8028.0  19108.3          6.0
Road                    .             4809.1   9974.9  16994.5  10984.9  20200.0  72518.9       85.0
Wator Supply and San7tat7on           1060.6   6698.1   7801.1   9626.0  11699.4  86849.6       18.1
Training and Community Organization   88o8.6  2911.8   1598.0   4868.6   8090.2  17270.7         8.6
Strengthening ORI and Munielpalities  1009.4  2122.5   1282.6   18385.5  1450.4  7144.4          8.5
Total Program Cost.                   17735.8  81240.6  46676.4  61065.0  57408.4 201727.6    100.0



-72-                                     AANNEX 12
RURAL MELOPMENT SNES1XN PROCu                                      Page 6 of 9
PROJECT SUMMARY
(USS mlliIon)
Bank     0We      DR1   Others   Total
Technology Adaptation and Extnsion    14.0    14.0       7.1      9.6    44.6
Watershed and Envtrorment        -      1.1      1.1     0.0      1.1      4.0
Flahries                               1.5     1.5      0.6      1.5      5.4
Rural Woman                             1.1      1.1     0.6      2.7          5.
Marketing                               2.5     2.5      1.8      2.5      9.0
Rods                                   20.5    20.5    10.4    20.1    71.4
Water Supply and Sanitation            10.8    10.8      5.2    10.1    36.8
Training and Com_unity Organisation     6.0     6.0      8.0       .9    20.9
Strengthening DR! and Municipalitios    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total                                  57.0    67.0    28.9    68.8   100.8
MACINY AND EqJ!PMET
Technology Adaptation and Extension     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Watershed and EnvIronhmnt               0.0     8.0      0.0      0.0 O.f
Fisheries                               0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Rural _Worn                             0.0      0.0     o.o      0.0      0.0
Marketing                               0.0     0.0      0.0      °.-      0.-
Robd"                                   0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.a
Water Supply and Sanitation             0.0     o.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Training and Community Organization     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Strengthentng DR2 and Munteipa iti.e    0.5     0.5      0.8      0.0      1.8
Total                                   9.5     0.5      0.8      0.0      1.8
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Technology Adaptation and Extension     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Watershed and Environment               0.2     0.2      0.1      0.0      0.6
Fisheries                               1.2     1.2      0.8      0.0      8.1
Rural Women                             1.1      1.1     0.5      0.0      2.7
Marketing                               0.8     0.6      0.4      0.0      1.9
Roads                                   0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Water Supply and Sanitation             0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Training and _ommunity Organization     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Strengthening OR! and Municipalities    8.0      8.0     1.5      0.0      7.4
Totol                                   6.2     0.2      8.2      0.0    15.7
TOTAL PROJECT
Technology Adaptation and Extension    14.0    14.0      7.1      9.5    44.8
Watershed and Environment               1.4     1.4      0.7      1.1      4.5
Fisheries                               2.8     2.8      1.4      1.5      6.4
Rur I Women                             2.1     2.1      1.1      2.7      6.1
Marketing                               8.3     8.8      1.7      2.5    10.6
Roads                                  20.5    206.    10.4    20.1    71.4
Water Supply and Sanitation            10.8    10.8      5.2    10.1    85.6
Training and Community Organiation     6.0      6.0      8.0      5.9    20.9
Strengthening DR! and Municipa ittl.    8.5     8.5      1.6      0.0      8.7
Total                                  68.6    6a.8    82.8    58.8   218.8
Conting nen-.                          11.2    11.2      5.8      9.2    86.7
Total Program Costs                    75.0    75.0    87.6    62.5   250.0



-73-      ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 9
OR? COPItNAIICNG hnI~RX
WK FIANCIN
OF ORI EXPENDITRE
LOCAL FOREIGN
X      X
APPLIED TECHNLOGY
-Adaptation Technoloa                          815.9
-Extenslon                                     85.O
-Training Profsonal    Inrors                   5.O
0Eateasieniste                                 05.9
MARKITING
Rural Proec
-Physical Invmn                                86.0
-Promotional Studies and TA                    79.0   100.0
Staple Food
-Invstmsnte - Assciatlons
-Wareouses"
-Promo*lonal Studies and TA                    70.9   190.0
WATERSHED MANAGD3EiT and
EVLIRNMENTAL PROTECTION
-Improvement of cover                          65.0
-Recovery of Areas                             85.9
-Plans for Management of  leroquencas         85.0
-Studies and Monitorlng                        70.0   1009.
-Training and Technical Assistance             7090   100.0
RURAL WOMEN
-Investments                                   05.9
-Shared Cost Technicel Assistaece              65.9
-Technical Assistance                          70.0   190.0
TRAINING AND COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION
-Producers Training                            85.0
-Community Organizations                        8t.0
-Producers Asoclatlons                         86.0
Small Scal*(CeSpat)
-Investments                                   85.0
-Technical Assistance                          85.9
Aqucu lture
-Hatchery Infrastructure                       05.9
-Technical Assistance to Fermero               70.0   100.9
-Traning Ext*nsionists                         79.0   1909.
-Technology D.v. and Res_reb                   70.9  1U9.0
ROADS
-Studies and Design                            85.0
-Road Investmente                              85.9



74           '           ~~~AM=E   12
OR! CORnANCINO WAtRIX                       Page 8:of 9
OF DRS EXPENDITURE
LOCAL FMOEN
Compnt                              X       X
-~~~~ -
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATIN
-Investaents                                     .
-Studles and Design AUs  tatnc                  6.
STRENGTHENW OR! AND MUNICIPALITIES
OR! Agency
-Incremental Statt                               0.9      0.0
-T*chnlce  Assletnc.                            79.9  1X00*
-Equipment and Vehile.s                         79.0   159.9
-Program Proeti,o                               760.0   106.0
-ETY lnng                                       79.0   159.0
-Evaluatleon                                    79.9   16.9,
Mfunicipal ities
-Technical Aeietac                              70.9   15
-Traai~ing                                      79.9   199.9



-75-
COLOUBIA                                  ANUX 12
Rurol Development Inwvtment Proram                    Pa5. 9 of 9
lo*bur.e02nt Schedulo
Fiscal           Std. Olob  Cum.                             CUmU.
Yeor    Semetor ProfIt,  Profil,           Plebursement      Mlab.
U       S          -U---WSI  million----
1990        S         0.0      0.0              3.0               3.0
199         A         2.0      2.0              1.5               4.5
s        2.0      4.0               1.C              6.0
1992        A         4.0      a.0              3.0               9.0
5        6.0    14.0                4.6             1. 5
1993        A         6.0    22.0               0.0              19.6
B        8.0    30.0                6.0             25.5
1994        A         6.0    86.0               4.6              30.0
*        9.0    45.0               6.7         ,    86.7
19o         A        11.0    SO                S.'2             45.0
a       10.0    66.0                7.6 52.5
199         A         9.\0    78.0              6.?              59.2
3        10.0    95.0               7.6             66.7
1I"?        A         9.0    98.0               6.0              72.7
B        5.0    98.0               1L.              74.6
199         A         2.0   100.0               0.5              75.0
Latin America, Colombia, Agriculture, Dlabursement Protile published April 22, 1969
reduced to 7 1/2 y*ero dua to ex3istene of a Speciol Account.
Disburs_nt. will be reduced In FYOt and 90 In order to recover the Initial depoeet.
I,
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



.                        ~~~~~~~-76-
AhNE 13
COLOMBIA
WRAL' DEVELP         INVESTM          PROGRAM (RDIP)
SIac Paramours for Price Conting.n,l.
Inflation Inde                                       A. for Inflation
Loeal      Local      Foreign     Foreign    Exchange                Foraegn      Locel
Inf laton     Cots   InfItlof        Coas        Rate                  Coats In    Costs In
Rate     tn Col 8      Rate       In .iSt   (Averaen)    zndx        Cot 8        USJ
(1)        (2)        ((3)         (4)        (s)         (0)          )          (8)
(1067)       82.800                   l.o00                242.60
(1in3)       211.100                 8.000                 200.200                (4UG)      (2/6)
Year 0   (198)        2.000        1.000      4.500       1.000    3U4.600        1.000      1.000       1.000
Year I   (1000)       24.000       1.120      4.S00       1.028    407.200        1.267      1.295       0'.04
Year 2   (1991)       22.000       1.876      4.600       1.0609    605.100       1.578      1.0E1       0.876
Year 8   (19S2)       20.000       1.004      4;500       1.117    740.500.       1.925      2.150       0.864
Year 4   (1998)       20.000       1.997      4.500       1.167    909.000        2.637      2.272       0.8S4
Year 5   (1994)       20.000       2.a90      4.500       1.219   10M1.300        2.837      Sa400       0.845
SOUrOes Exchango rate and Colo41ian Inf lation forenaste free COLOMBIA, Department ot
Planning, datd November 7, 1999
Columns 2   4 are calculatd at half th  tctor for tho current yer and the full Ifactor
for the pr cedin year
November 89, 1989



N REX 14
-77-                        Page 1 of 2
COLOM3IA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM fIDIP)
Audit Recuirements
Documentation for Audit of Consolidated Program Accounts
1.       DRI and all participating municipalities and agencies would keep
separate program accounts. Each participating municipality and agency
would slbmit to DRIs Regional Office a statemeat of sources and
application of project funds within 30 days after the end of the fiscal
year. Within the next 30 days, the DRI's Regional Office would prepare and
transmit to the central office a regional consolidated statement of sources
and application of project funds.
2.       In addition to its financial statements as an entity, DRI would
submit to the Governments Comptroller General for audit by April 30 of
each year the following information on the program accounts.
(a) overall consolidated statement of sources and application of
funds, with coments on the most significant changes with regard
to the previous year;
(b) a report on its system of internal control (both financial and
operational);
(c) a report on the corrective actions taken in response to the
opinions and recomendations made by the auditor in the report of
the previous period;
(d) a report and its comments on the movement of the special account
taking into consideration the time intervals between the date of
expenditures, approval of disbursements, and transfer to
participating municipalities and executing agencies;
te) a report showing and analyzing budget execution during the year,
compared with initial appropriations and budget execution during
the previous years; and
(f) all documentation supporting the statement of expenditures of DRI.
Content of the Audit Reports
3.       The auditor's report should give the program amounts and express
an opinion on the fairness with which they are presented. The auditor
would also report, on:
(a) compliance by DRI with its obligations under the programs
(Program accounts, SOEs and special accounts, the financial
statements of DRI);                               I
(b) the system of internal contrul (financial and operations);



ANNE 14
Page 2 of 2
(c)     corrective measures taken by DRI Fund in response to observations
and recommendations made in the previous report; and
(d)     the accounting system used.
Timina of Submission of Audit Reportg
4,       The auditor should forward to the Bsank its audit reports no later
than two months after having received the information from DRI, that is, no
later than six months after the end of the Colombian fiscal year.
.J 
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-79-
ANEX 1;
COLOMBIA
MRRL INTEGRAED DiVELOPUNT PROGRAM (RMIP)
OR! Oraisntational Chart
|BOARD OF DSRECTO 
OffIce
or the
GebneraAt
Communica-.                                  So¢rdn                 Divion
to  Office o       fieo  h               fieo  h
Aest.i Mner       At.  .ana.1
Pnniinatlonn for Onedon
and~~~~~ Ro nOi                         H_ioW
Division ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ oolpm                        Wlar   ivso
Policy ~ ~    ~     ~      ~      8         |Dw l
,_      L       .~~~~~~~~~~~f I  co
Analysis  Control ofstm
co ,            Offtce of th          Office of
Man            A t. Mnn r            A_t. ManagerAI gr_
=Plan Ing         for Op r loo          for Finance
and RDSP
Coordlawbor
Programing         POrromn
Divislon          T*hia                 nd Anal Io 
Pollcy     i                           Aacoutn
visi I             Control o
iTreasury 
XStatstics 
DiOvision 
|    1Reglonal |
Mbnase nt OfftIcool 
|                    ; ~~~~~Amniostrtive1
-    i                       I.          .        I ~~~~~~~~~~~~Support I
T  oeWntenl                F  iinance     
IOperatl6ne Unit I     I unit         I



-80-                         ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 6
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
Monitoring System
Conceptual Aonroach
1.       The monitoring system is an integral part of the RDIP. Its goal
is to keep DRI management, DNP, MOA, other relevant government agencies and
the Bank appraised of RDIP progress and to assist in the identification and
solution of problems encountered along the way. The monitoring system
would focus exclusively on the preparation and execution of projects.
Other considerations, such as impact or management efficiency, would be
addressed separately in the evaluation component of the program.
2.       The basic element of the monitoring system would be the individual
projects to be carried out under RDIP. The monitoring would track the two
phases necessary to the realization of these projects.
-   identification and appraisal; and
-   execution and supervision.
3.       Prolect identification and appraisal are all the activities taking
place from the moment a project idea is submitted to DR1 until either
project execution starts or the pro4ect is rejected. The start of proiect
execution is the moment a cofinancing contract is signed between DRI, the
municipality andlor a cofinancing entity. During this process the
monitoring system would assist DRI to ensure that all activities take place
in a timely manner and identify bottlenecks and problems early enough to
solve them. 2n addition the monitoring system will keep records on the
projects handled by DRI at various stages in the process, thus providing a
database for future evaluations of the program.
4.       As noted in Annex 4, RDIP requires the preparation of the Annual
Investment Plan to be approved by Congress. To be included in this plan,
projects need to be identified, i.e., projects at the idea stage (project
profiles). All these projects go through the first stage screening on the
basis of agreed eligibility criteria. This includes a brief description of
the project, cost estimate, and a very preliminary financing plan.
Subsequently, DRI prepares the Annual Operating Plan and the Cash Flow
Plan. These plans list each project, the steps and actions required to
bring them to appraisal and approval stage, the schedule for each event and
the money which DRI would need for this purpose. The monitoring system
will help DRI regional directors and central management to keep tabs on
this process, identify those projects (or regions) which are lagging to
promptly remedy the situation where necessary.
5.       Once included in the Annual Operating Plan, projects would be
appraised on the basis of feasibility studies and rough detailed proposal
as defined in the Operational Manual. Appraisal includes feasibility and
environmental studies. These need to take place in a timely manner, and
the monitoring system would keep track of progress.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 6
6.       RDIP execution would be measured according to at least three main
indicator groups describing:
(a) Physical Prosress of the Pro1ects. This refers to the degree of
completion of the activities to be carried out under projects in
the RDIP (see para. 9 below), and the level of effort in the
completion of said activities. For example, an agricultural
extension project may have been completed (all the farmers
targeted have been reached) but the number of person days of
extension agents was higher than previously anticipated; or a road
may be built but the volume of earth movements turned out lower
than previously anticipated. Discrepancies between planned and
actual physical execution may indicate future financial problems
and/or deficiencies in the plannlng/design process which should be
addressed.
(b) Cost of Execution of the Proiects. This refers to the financial
performance of the project as opposed to what was budgeted during
the planning stage. Discrepancies between the two can occur
because actual level of efforts were not equal to the planned
ones, unit prices turned out to be different than those used in
the budget, or because there were unforeseen items which had to be
paid for by the project.
(c) Calendar of Execution of the Proiects. This refers to the dates
at which the physical progress takes place as opposed to the
planned calendar. Delays must be identified early since they
often indicate financial overruns and execution problems in the
making. In addition discrepancies between the planned and the
actual calendar of execution also indicate a deficiency in the
planning process.
7.       Project suDervision. findinas and recommendation, by DRI would
also be incorporated into the monitoring system. It is anticipated that
supervision activities by DRI officials will mostly consist of field visits
to help resolve outstanding problems. DRI officials are not expected to
collect any of the information referred to under para. 6 above. The
monitoring system should keep a record of these field visits, verify
concordance of field observation with the reports prepared by the
municipalities or the contractors, and identify problems. If problems are
identified, the system would track what solutions are identified and the
progress of their implementation.
S.       The monitoring system must apply to all RDIP projects.
(a) technological adaptation and extension
(b) watershed management and environmental protection
(c) fisheriesl
(d) rural women
1/ The fisheries component consists of CESPAS and aquaculture projects.



ANNEX 16
-82-                            Page 3 of 6
(e) marketing
(f) training and community organization
(g) rural roads
(h) water supply and sanitation
(i) strengthening DRI and municipalities.
9.       Xn order for any project to go through the stages described above
(identification, appraisal. execution and supervision), a number of
activities must be carried out by various agents (municipalities, DRI
cooperating entities, contractors, etc.) These activities vary depending
upon the project type considered but are homogeneous for each project type.
Each project type would be divided into its key activities. The purpose of
this division is to ensure a common standard for monitoring -projects of a
given type. For example, 302 completion of a water supply project could
mean very different things according to the definition used by the person
reporting on progress. Instead water supply projects could All be divided
into:
(a) Identification (in the sense the project is submitted by a
municipality for DRI financing);
(b) Financing sources (which indicates that the financial structure of
the project agrees with the cofinancing matriz);
(c) Completion of the feasibility study;
(d) Completion of the environmental study;
(e) Design (Completion of detailed engineering study);
(f) Construction, broken down between:
- excavations (cu m)
- water lines installation (m)
- structures (tanks, pumping stations..)(z)
(g) Supervision.
To the maximum extent possible, measurements of activities would be based
on objectively verifiable indicators (meters, number of field visits)
rather than subjective ones (percents, scales from good to bad).
10.      Because DRI regional offices will not be executing the projects
themselves all primary information sources will actually be external to
DRI. For example in the case of infrastructure projects, the information
included in the supervision reports (Informes de Interventoria) will be
used to feed into the monitoring system all the necessary data for these
projects. In technology adjustment and extension projects, ICA or Caja



ANNEX 16
-83-                           Page 4 of 6
Agraria will provide this  information.  Many monitoring systems already
exist for the tracking progress which are similar to the "Informe de
Interventorial developed by Obras Publicas for infrastructure projects or
the systems developed by ICA and SENA in the past to monitor their own
activities. The DRI monitoring system would be based on these systems for
two reasons:
(a) they have already been tested and thus will allow DRI to have a
functioning system in the shortest possible time;
(b) many cooperating entities will require the use of their own
information gathering system either because of legal requirements
or'because they are part of their internal operating procedures.
It is unlikely that cooperating entities will substantially change
their operating procedures only to satisfy DRI monitoring
requirements.
Work Plan
11.      The following tasks would be carried out in order to develop the
system describee above.                            I
(a) The terms of reference of the four consultants contracted to
develop the monitoring system would be amended to achieve the
results described above. The consultants would be transferred
from the Planning Subdirection to the Operations Subdirection to
achieve better coordination between their activities and those of
the other departments of DRI.
(b) The consultants would collect existing monitoring systems
previously developed by the Operations Subdirection of DRI as well
as those existing in other government agencies and in the
cooperating entities such as:
* _Ministerio de Agricultura
- Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte        ,
- Banco Central Hipotecario
- Division de Saneamiento Basico Rural
- Caja Agraria
- Direccion de Agua Potable y Saneamlento Basico
-  FANCI>COOP
- Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
- Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales
- Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
- INCOVA
-  MNDERA
- Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
These monitoring systems may serve as a valuable base for
development of the system for UDIP. In addltion, as described In
the previous section, the monitoring systems of the cooperating
entities will provide the basic information to the DRI monitoring
system.
(c) Identify, based on the 1990 Investment Plan, each of the project
types to be executed under the RDIP.



ANNEX 16
-84-                      Page S of 6
(d) For each project type identify tho key activities which reflect
accurately the progress of the projects. This task should be
carried out in close collaboration with all DRI divisions
(operations, legal, financial) involved in the process. For
example, the legal department has already prepared a system for
the control of the contractual process which could be incorporated
into or serve as a bass for the monitoring system.
(e) Determine, in collaboration with DRI regional and central
managers, what informst;on is necessary to whom, and how often it
should be provided.
(f) Assess whether the monitoring systems of the cooperating entities
collected in (b) can provide the necessary information identified
in the previous task. If this is not the case, the consultants
should first review with DRI management whether 'this information
is really necessary. If yes, the consultant should then review
with the cooperating entity how this information could be added to
their existing monitoring system.
(g) Develop the data processing methodology which will lead from
information gathered in the field to the reports required by DRI
management.
Ch) Define the necessary activities to be conducted for data
collection. processing (which forms have to be written, input of
information into computers, run of computer programs, print-out of
reports, etc.) and establish responsibilities for carrying these
out. These may be assigned either to DRI personnel or to the
cooperating entities.
Ci) For those responsibilities assigned to the cooperating entities,
review with the legal department how these responsibilities can be
incorporated into the cofinancing contracts, including annexes
describing the format in which information should be provided to
DRI.
(j) Design a verification system to ensure the validity of the
information collected and processed by the monitoring system. At
a minimum this will include field visits by DRI personnel to the
project sites. Checks on the accuracy of the costs reported by
the system can be made by using the data included in the records
of the financial department.
(k) Estimate the mapower, equipment and other operating costs
required in order to operate the system. The system should be
designed so as to provide the information at a minitmum cost.
(1) Prepare an implementation plan for the system to be installed and
operating by June 1, 1990. This plan should include the
development of the necessary software, the preparation of manuals,
the installation of the hard- and software, and the training of
personnel.



.NNEX 16
-85-    -    -          .  Page 6 of 6
(a) Prepare a report describing the proposed monitoring oyztsm. The
reports should use Sections 2.2 to 2.12 as a Table of Contents,
each section being the subject of a separate chapter.
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\



-86-
ANNMX 17
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
Program Review
1.       Although the proposed RDIP has evolved from the Bank's experience
over the past 12 years with two previous Bank-supported DRI projects, the
cofinancing arrangements, the planning and programing as well as the
entire approval and execution system of projects are different due to the
decentralization reforms and DRI's designation as the main cofinancing
entity for the 602 municipalities. Also, DRI has had relatively little
direct experience in the past financing and appraising the type of
marketing, CESPAS, watershed management and environmental protection and
technology adaptation and extension projects based on the ZTDP and the
municipal plans to be financed under the RDIP.
2.       In order to enable a timely assessment of progress, DNP would
contract consultants to begin the RDIP Program Review by August 31, 1992
and submit to the Bank the consultants' report and plan of action by
November 1992. The Agricultural Studies Unit in DNP would prepare the
terms of reference, identify consultants, and submit the terms of reference
for coments by the Bank by April 15, 1992. The terms of reference will be
prepared by DNP in collaboration with MOA and DRI.
3.       The Program Review would consist ofs  (a) planning, management and
implementation of the RDIP; and (b) training and environmental aspects of
watershed management, water supply and roads project. The Review will
assess the effectiveness of the cofinancing and implementation
arrangements, provision of counterpart funds, including IVA, DRIi's use of
the eligibility criteria for screening and appraising projects, its
monitoring and project supervision system, procurement aspects, its
internal and external coordination arrangements, the adequacy of its staff
and their distribution between the central and regional offices, the
effectiveness of DRI's Regional Offices in respect to the authority and
responsibility they have for approving US$50,000 and supervising projects;
the watershed management and environmental projects would be reviewed in
respect of improved land uses and agroecological practices introduced under
the RDIP, and the institutional arrangements to assure inclusion of
environmental protection in design and construction of civil works
projects.



-87-
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTNENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
Selected Documents and Data Availsble in the Proiect File
1   Annex for Technology Development (Working Paper)
2. Anexo Tecnico Componente de Microcuencas (Working Paper)
3. Anexo para Componente de Acuacultura (Working Paper)
4. Anexo para Centros de Servicios (Working Paper)
5. Pesca Artesanal (CESPAS)
6. Annex for Rural Women's Component (Working Paper)
7. Anexo de la Organizacion y Entrenamiento (Working Paper)
8.   Ayuda Memoria, Anexo y Cuadros - Componente do Comercializacion
(Working Paper)
9. Anexo Subprograma de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico (Working Paper)
10. Anexo Subprograma de Caminos Vecinales (Working Paper)
11. Ekencia y Anexo Dimension Ambiental del Pider (Working Paper)
12. Anexo: Fortalecimiento Institucional (Working Paper)
13. Annexs The National Budget (Working Paper)
14. Annex for Agricultural Credit in Colombia (Working Paper)
15. DRI Reglamento Operativo (Normas Basicss)
16.  Program. de Desarrollo Integral Campesino (1988-1993).   Manual for
Cofinancing Percentages
17. Programa de Desarrollo Integral Campesino (1988-1993) (Basic Working
Document)
18. Informe a los Gerentes Regionales Sobre el Proyecto Ficha Veredal en
1989 y Programacion para 1990 (Working Document)
19. Banco de Proyectos (Working Document)
20. Avances y Experiencias Plan Piloto y Plan de Accion para Obviar en el
Desarrollo del RDIP, los Inconvenientes Encontrados en el Proyecto
Piloto (Working Paper)
21. Control, Segutmiento y Evaluacion al Credito (Sistema Nacional de
Credito Agropecuario (SNCA)) (Working Document)
22. Acta de Acuerdos FNCV-Fondo DRI
23. Carta de Jefe DNP (18 Dic. 1989) con Ayuda Memoria de la Reunion
(9 Nov. 1989), Banco Mundial, BID, DRI, DNP, BCH, Acta de Acuerdos
FFDU-FONDO-DRI
24. SistemA de Control Operativo del Fondo DRI (Diseno) (Working Paper)
25.  Proceso de Evaluacion en el Program. de Desarrollo Integral Campesino
(1990-1995) (Working Paper)
26. Comite Estudios Preinversion (Circular)
27. Plan Zonal (ZTDP) (Working Paper)
28. Componente de Capacitacion Teenologica (Criterios Generales pars la
Programacion)
29. Resolucion - Comite de Capacitaciof del PDIC.
30. Memorando Circular - Los Objetivos de la Asignacion de Recursos del
Fondo DRI
31. Diseno Manual DRI para Evaluacion
32. Sample of Technology Adaptation Projects for CRECEDs (Working Paper)
33. Costo Promedio Anual del Manteni-lento Rutinario y Periodico de un
Camino Vecinal (Working Paper). Methodology for calculating the 4%
for road maintenance cost



-88-
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
34. Guia de Planificacion Programacion de Proyectos 1991
35. Proyocto do Reestructuracion (DRI)
36. Plan de Sistemas de Informacion
37. Components do Comercializacion - Politicas do Comercializacion
(Reunion Gerentes Regionales)
38. Bases par& la Identificacion, Formulacion y Cofinanciacion de los
Proyoctos de Desarrollo Teenologico
39. Programa de Desarrollo Integral Campesino - Proyecto de Endeudamiento
Externo
(a) Componentes de la Produccion
1 .Desarrollo Tecnologico
2. Organizacion y Capacitacion
3. Mujer Campesina
(b) Camponentes de la Produccion - Anexos
1. Desarrollo Tecnologico
2. Organizacion y Capacitacion
3. Mujer Campesina
(c) Componentes Recursos Naturales Renovables
1. Microcuencas
2. Acuacultura
3. Contros de Servicios al Pescador Artesanal - CESPAS
(d) Componentes Recursos Naturales Renovables - Anexos
1. Microcuencas
2. Acuacultura
3. Contros de Servicios al Pescador Artesanal - CESPAS
(e) Componentes de la Comerc4alizacion
1. Comercializacion Rural
2. Abastecimiento de Bienes Basicos (Anexos Incluidos)
(f) Componentes de Infraestructura Productiva - Social
1. Caminos Vecinales
2. Acueductos Rurales y Saneamiento Basico
(g) Componentes de Infraestructura - Anexos Productivo - Social
1. Caminos Vecinales
2. Acueductos Rurales y Saneamiento Basico
(h) Component. Fortalecimiento Institucional
(i) Reglamento Operativo
(j) Evaluacion
40. Colombia - Decentralizacion Reforms: An Assessment of Their Scope,
Content, and Implications for Agriculture, September 2., *988
41. Solicitud Programs Anual de Caja - Vigencia 1990 Inverniav (l/23190)
Operating Plahm
42. Asi Estamos Cumpliendo Autonomia Municipal. Enero 1987 (Volume III),
Presidencia de la Republica (Decroto No. 77, 1987)
43. Decreto No. 2428, October 24, 1989 (Estructura Organizadora del DRI)



-89-
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
44. Decreto No. 501, March 13, 1989 (El Sector Agropecuario estara
constaituido por el Kinisterio de Agricultura y sus Organismos adscritos
y vinculados)
45. Decreto No. 1946, August 20, 1989 (Principios Rectores del Sistema
Nacional de TrAnsferencia de Tecnologia Agropecuaria)
46. Decreto go. 107, January 13, 1989 (por el cual se reglamentan los
Comites DRI)
47. Principales Nomras de la Descentralizacion Administrativa
48. Acuerdo No. 030, September 7, 1988 (sabre el Plan de Desarrollo Social
y Economlco del Municipio de Tibacuy - El Concejo Municipal de Tibacuy)
49. Rural Roads Model (Module IV)                                      -
50. Estudio de Casos de Microcuencas, October,1989
51. Lineamientos de la Politica Agropecuaria para 1989 y su Proyeccion en
el Mediano Plazo, Ministerio de Agriculturs, March-April 1989
52. La Agricultura Colombiana - Analysis del ESP, October 1988
53. Plan de Oferta Selectiva
54. Plan de Fomeato de las Nortalizas
55. Plan de Fomento del Maiz
56. IDI' Economic and Farm Models Working Papers
57. Decentralizing Revenues and the Provision of Services: A Review of
Recent Experience - Colombia (10189)



-90-APENDIX A
Page 1 of 2
, 1990
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Res Loan Not
(Rural Development Investment Project)
Paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement
Dear Sirs:
We refer to paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement
of even date herewith for the above-referenced Project. -
The attachment to this letter sets forth the terms and conditions in
respect of the obligatJon of DRI Municipalities for the maintenance of rural
roads to be constructed, rehabilitated or improved under the Project. If you are
in agreement with such terms and conditions please countersign this letter.
Sincerel' yours,
FOND0O DE DESARROLLO RURAL INTEGRADO
Authorized representative
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-91-
APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEYELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (EDIP)
Road Maintenance
1.       Hereby the following are set forths
(a) the procedures for calculating the annual expenditures by the DRI
municipalities for routine and periodic maintenance of rural roads
confinanced by DRI and the said municipalities under the RDIP; and
(b) the arrangements for applying the formula in respect of each road.
2.       It is expected that the first batch of rural roads to be
cofinanced by DRI and the DRI municipalities under the Project would be.
completed by December 1991. Beginning in 1992 the DRI municipalities would
have to maintain these roads and to this end, they would make the necessary
budgetary provisions by August 1991.
3.       The DRL municipalities would use cash and in kind contributions
from various sources to finance the routine and periodic maintenance of
roads financed under the Project. For planning purposes, the
municipalities would be expected to contribute about 421 of the cumulative
escalated investment cost of roads in the program for the maintenance of
all roads, constructed and/or improved until December 1991 and all those
roads to be constructed during the life of the project.
4.       The annual percentage may vary depending on the geographic and
ecological location of each road. During the construction phase of each
road, DaI would establish a percentage for maintenance based on the
technical requirements of the road. The applicable percentage would be
reflected in the respective Contrato de Cofinanciacion for each road and be
reviewed annually, at the time the municipalities are preparing their
annual plans for road maintenance, by DRI with the municipality to ensure
that the respective municipalities apply the required resources for
maintenAace as specified in the Contrato de Cofinanciacion. An example of
how to apply, say, a UZ level for maintaining a road of 7.1 km for 25 years
is provided in Appendix I.
S.       Cumulative investment costs would be adjusted annually on the
basis of the price escalation index published by the Ministry of Public
Works.
I/ The formula for calculating the 4Z bencbmark is based on a study
carried out by IIPIT-PIDELTA which is available in the FNCV. DRI would
prepare a separate manual for use by the municipalities for calculating
the cost of maintenance and the technical aspects of maintenance work.
DRI would provide the manual for Bank's comments.



APPENDIX B
-92-                         Page 1 of 2
-92
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)
AssumPtions
1.       Example of calculating routine and periodic road maintenance for a
road constructed at a cost of US$33,290 per km, with average length of
7.1 km and a useful life of 25 years. The calculations are based on the
assumption that the municipalities would need to earmark and spend the
equivalent of 42 of the weighted average of the cost of constructing the
said road.
2.       Routine and periodic               Municipalities to spend 2.46Z
Maintenance (Z)                    tor routine maintenance each year
for 3 years and 5.322 every fourth
year for periodic maintenance
during the useful life of the road
(25 years) of the total cost of
constructing the 7.1 km road.
3.       Overall maintenance cost           42 weighted average of the rural
of said 7.1 km road                cost of constructing as adjusted
annually.
4.       The following gives a breakdown of the routine and periodic
maintenance cost using assumptions 2 and 3 above, respectively, for the 7.1 km
road over 25 years:



APPENDIX B
i  '93_                  Page 2 of 2
Year     Total cost of I/    Routine        Periodic        Cost of Maintenance
constructing said  Maintenance   Maintenancee      weighted average (4Z)
road (7.1 k_m)                                                   -
(US$)             (US$)         (US$)               (US$).
1            236,359                                               9,454
2                              5,814                               9,454
3                              5,814                               9,454
4                              5,814          ,5                   9,454
S                                        -   i2,574                9,454
6                              5,814                               9,454
7                              5,814                               9,454
8                              5,814       -                       9,454
9                                            12,574                9,454
10                             5,814                               9,454
11                             5,814                               9,454
12                             5,814                               9,454
13                                           12,574                9,454.    -
14                             5,814                               9,454
15                             5,814                               9,454
16                             5,814                  -            9,454
17                                           12,574                9,454
18                    -        5,814                               9,454
19                             5,811                               9,454
20                             5,814                               9,454
21                                           12,574        -   -  9,454
2i                             5,814--                -            9,454
23                             5.814                    ;          9,454
24                             5,814                               9,454
25                                           12,574                9,454
TOTAL                       104,660         75.446              226,905
1/ December 1989, prices.  The following are the equivalent values of labor and
gasoline in the event that the municipalities would contribute in labor and
kind toward the cost of maintenance.
Item                      Value in             Routine        Periodic
(Col. p,esos)        (Col. pesos)
Labor                    1,085 per day          15,772          34,108
Gasoline                   216 per gallon        3,140           6,790
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



@ 's * 7 9 ~~~C  O1 I   M B  I-                    1t      '5,A  A,  -
->RURAL DMOP>METNENTWNT PROG"., RDPY                                                   .   $f  --,'.i''
11.  * ' Dr,,Muniipalifies1990-94inc6o!oionli8 t            ^      / a-          1.> WC              )ff<\  .
S TW                                      S   
X                       <           A /1R1 A Z   0 5             >,s,~~~~~~~~~AA 
,~~~Qb                                                         SAFBflNRVC5  IV  RE     r      BRA  
.o 5  IV19                                                                              )     S       
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jwde G 'w ' _
_     ,\PE C U A  D t
-  a 0                                          i,                                                    w
-_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R4 A  Z I  L
. rs 15 t / 1994
K 2   OVMILS 0    sb      O  2o 0  2k  2do
W   ' 7';              ~~~         ~       ~~       ~~7ps  714                       70 th8



