Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16721
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3250-CO)
June 18, 1997
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
Average Exchange Rate for 1996
US$1.00 =Col$ 1000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DRI, Fondo DRI   -  Fondo de Cofinanciacion para la Inversion Rural - DRI
(Rural Investment Cofinancing Fund)1/
CMDR             -  Consejo Municipal de Dessarrollo Rural
- (Municipal Council for Rural Development)
CONPES           -  Consejo Nacional de Politicas Econ6micas y Sociales
(National Council for Economic and Social Policy)
ERR              -  Economic Rate of Return
FY               -  Fiscal Year
IDB              -  The Inter-American Development Bank
IRR               -  Internal Rate of Return
NCS               -  National Cofinancing System
NGO               -  Non-Governmental Organization
PNR              -  Programa Nacional de Rehabilitaci6n
- (National Rehabilitation Plan)
RDIP             -  Rural Development Investment Program
(Programa de Desarrollo Integral Campesino - PDIC)
SA               -  Special Account
SAR              -  Staff Appraisal Report
UDECO            -  Unidad Departamental Especializada de Cofinanciacion
(Departmental Cofinancimg Unit)
UMATA            -  Unidad Municipal de Asistencia Tecnica Agropecuaria
(Municipal Unit for Agricultural-Livestock Extension Services)
UNIR              -  Unidad de Interlocuci6n Regional
(Unit for Coordination with the Regions)
Vice President:           Shahid Javed Burki
Director:                 Paul Isenman
Acting Division Chief:   Jonathan Parker
Staff:                   Elsie Garfield
1/    Fondo DRI changed its name with Decree 2132 from Fondo de Desarrollo Rural Integrado
(Integrated Rural Development Fund) to the Fondo de Cofinanciacion para la Inversion Rural
(Rural Investment Cofinancing Fund). Throughout the report it will be referred to interchangeably
as Fondo DRI or DRI.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBtA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3250-CO)
Table of Contents                                                   Page No.
PR E FA C E    .........................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ......................................................... ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction ................................................I
A. Project Objectives ................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................. 4
D. Project Sustainability ..............................................6
E. Bank Performance ................................................7
F. Borrower Performance                                                 ..8
G. Assessment of Outcome                               ..........................................9
H. Future Operation ....................................... ..9
I. Key Lessons Learned .......................................... 10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1.    Summary of Assessments ...................................................                            11
2.    Related Bank Loans ................................................... 12
3.    Project Timetable ................................................... 12
4.    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......................... 13
5A.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................. 14
5B.  Key Indicators for Subproject Accomplishments .................................... 15
6.    Studies Included in Project ...................................................                       16
7A.  Project Costs ................................................... 17
7B.  Project Financing ................................................... 18
8.    Status of Legal Covenants .....................                      .............................. 19
9.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................. 22
10.  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ...................................................                      22
11.  Bank Resources:  Missions ...................................................                         23
APPENDIXES:
A.  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ...................................................     24
B.  Borrower's Comments on the ICR ...................................................                        38
C.  Cofinancier's Comments on the ICR ...................................................   41
D. Map IBRD 21684RI
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3250-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Development
Investment Program in Colombia, for which Loan 3250-CO in the amount of US$75.0
million was approved on July 31, 1990 and made effective on January 31, 1991.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996, one year later than the original
closing date. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on June 3, 1997.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Inter-American Development Bank.
The ICR was prepared by Elsie Garfield of the Natural Resources Management
and Rural Poverty Division, Country Department III of the Latin America Region assisted
by Maria Elena Castro, LA3DR, H.J. Nissenbaum (Consultant) and Carmen Nielsen,
LA3NR. The report was reviewed by Jonathan Parker, Acting Chief, Natural Resources
Management and Rural Poverty Division (LA3NR) and Robert Crown, Project Advisor,
Country Department III. The Borrower and Cofinancier have provided comments that are
included as Appendixes B and C to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR began during mid-1995 with the Bank working closely with
the Implementing Agency (Fondo DRI) to prepare an in-depth evaluation of the program.
Due to this continuous involvement over a year and a half, a specific ICR mission was not
undertaken and no aide-memoire was prepared. The Borrower has prepared a summary of
their lengthy evaluation report which is contained in Appendix A.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (LN. 3250-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Twenty years ago the Colombian Government initiated an integrated rural
development program (DRI) to increase the productivity, incomes and output of small
farmers (campesinos) which the Bank supported with two loans. The third phase of DRI,
supported by this loan approved in 1990, represented a significant change in approach
which was shaped by Colombia's process of political, administrative and fiscal
decentralization. The program's concept and mode of operation changed from one in
which Fondo DRI contracted central government agencies to carry out program activities
to one which gave municipalities and communities a central role.
Project Objectives
2.    The loan was to finance a time slice of the Rural Development Investment
Program (RDIP) for 1990-94 which covered 602 municipalities located in
21 Departments. DRI would provide matching grants for investment projects to be
carried out by municipalities and communities. The project's main objectives were to:
(i) increase the incomes of about 280,000 poor farmers and fishermen; (ii) improve living
standards of the rural communities through provision of basic infrastructure; (iii) promote
grassroots involvement of rural communities in the identification of investment needs and
subsequent maintenance; and (iv) strengthen DRI's capabilities to prepare, appraise and
supervise projects and help the municipalities administer and cofinance development
projects to support decentralization.
3.    The program's objectives were not totally clear. There was some tension between
the desire to improve the situation of poor farmers and fishermen, and the "productivity"
focus which led to working in areas with agricultural promise and with farmers having the
potential to become businessmen. This focus was diluted in 1994 when the program was
expanded to the entire country. The establishment of quantitative objectives for economic
benefits was overly ambitious and unrealistic for an operation which was a pioneer of the
decentralization process. The appraisal report recognized the risk that some of the
benefits might not materialize during the first five years of the program, but the remedies
proposed did not address this issue well. In addition, the program's strategy for rural
development left out two critical ingredients--small farmers' access to land and capital--
which also were not being successfully addressed outside the program.



Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The major factors affecting the project's implementation were those within the
Government's control. The RDIP's design was overly bureaucratic and complex, thus
inconsistent with the participatory approach; this was not detected immediately since the
program got off to a good start. Although operational limitations soon emerged, DRI
steadily improved implementation and by 1993 the new approach, including effective
delegation of responsibilities to DRI's regional offices and mastery of procedures and
instruments introduced by the RDIP, was taking hold.
5.    The Government then issued Decree 2132, establishing the National Cofinancing
system (NCS), which mandated the closure of DRI's regional offices by 1994 (functions
to be taken over by Departmental govemments), and required it to use a fiduciary to
manage cofinancing funds. In addition, DRI was required to expand nation-wide and
assume responsibility for new programs which added to its burden. DRI and, to some
extent the Government, undertook remedial measures and developed some creative
responses to these problems which yielded some positive results in 1996.
6.    A major implementation problem throughout was the lack of an adequate
monitoring system to track progress in the subprojects being financed. By the time the
loan closed, a satisfactory system had been designed, but was still not functioning
adequately despite considerable efforts by DRI to assist the departments and municipalities
who were the primary providers of the information.
7.    Despite the many problems and obstacles, the RDIP achieved two of its four major
objectives and partially achieved the others. It cofinanced 12,038 projects in the span of
six years of which the bulk of funding was for agricultural extension services and
infrastructure. The number of beneficiaries and level of investment far surpassed
expectations, with 64 percent of the resources going to the least developed municipalities.
Beneficiaries and municipalities have expressed a high level of satisfaction with the
program's results, including improved incomes and production (see Table 5A).
8.    The main activity aimed at increasing the incomes of small farmers, as part of the
first objective, was support for the decentralization of the agricultural extension system.
By 1995, municipal technical assistance units (UMATAs) were serving double the number
of farmers expected at appraisal and three times the number served by the previous
extension system. The RDIP made an important contribution to the second objective by
improving infrastructure in rural areas, with roughly 50 percent of program funds
allocated to road improvement and construction, water and sanitation systems (benefiting
450,000 rural residents), and rural electrification. The program only partially fulfilled its
third objective of promoting community involvement, due to weaknesses in the program's
design and the disruptive changes which overwhelmed DRI. However this changed in
1996 when DRI led efforts to make the newly created Municipal Councils for Rural
Development (CMDR) effective forums for community participation. Concerning the
fourth objective, the strengthening of DRI's capacity occurred in the early years, but the
institutional limbo and chaos which resulted from the introduction of the NCS seriously



- iv -
undermined it. The related goal of strengthening municipalities was partially achieved.
Survey evidence and feedback from the government indicate that DRI and the RDIP are
perceived as having made an important contribution to improving municipal and
departmental capacity (the latter was totally unforeseen at appraisal).
9.    Project sustainability is uncertain. The prospects are good for the UMATAs and
water and sanitation projects: (i) half of the water and sanitation projects are being
operated and maintained by user committees; and (ii) municipalities have assumed a rising
share of the cost of the UMATAs and, in many cases, mayors and farmers are actively
supporting them. Uncertainty remains about maintenance of road investments, though as
the decentralization process is consolidated, the prospects for this should improve.
Finally, concerning the institutional development objectives, Colombia's 1991 Constitution
provides a strong basis for sustained involvement of municipalities and communities in
rural development. However, there is much uncertainty as to the sustainability of DRI as
an institution as Government has announced the eventual elimination of the NCS.
10.   The RDIP's outcome is judged satisfactory. As indicated above, despite facing an
enormous number of complex problems, the RDIP was a larger program and reached
more beneficiaries than expected. The prospects for sustained municipal and community
participation are good. The RDIP was a pioneering operation for the Bank and has served
as a model for rural development investment funds being tried in other countries.
11.   The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. However, in several respects
the Bank's appraisal of the RDIP was deficient due to lack of experience with this
innovative approach, particularly the participatory aspects. Supervision was satisfactory.
While in hindsight, perhaps the Bank should have realized earlier on the serious impact of
Decree 2132, supervision missions continued to find good results on the ground and
disbursements were satisfactory. When the negative impact of Decree 2132 became clear,
the Bank assisted the Government and DRI to analyze and develop solutions for the RDIP
and NCS' problems. The Bank worked closely with the Inter-American Development
Bank during all phases of the project.
12.   The overall performance of the Government (Borrower) and Fondo DRI
(Implementing Agency) is judged deficient, though it is recognized that many problems
which arose were not easy to foresee or handle due to the ambitious and politically
charged nature of the decentralization process. The objectives of Decree 2132 were
laudable, but the mandated changes proved to be impractical in the short-term and
adequate transitional arrangements were not provided for. There appeared to be a lack of
sufficient recognition that institutional reforms take t.ime to implement and, thus, a
tendency to drop a reform without allowing sufficient time for it to take hold. Overall,
DRI's performance is also judged deficient, but admirable under the circumstances.
Institutional instability and constantly changing rules during the RDIP made it difficult to
get things done and eroded institutional capacity. Financial management and monitoring
and evaluation remained critical weaknesses throughout.



- v -
13.   Conceming future operations, the Government has requested the IDB to support
a new phase of DRI's program whose proposed design incorporates many of the lessons
of the RDIP. The Bank will continue to support the Government's efforts to reduce
poverty through promoting rural development, a priority of the Country Assistance
Strategy, including consideration of options for use of the NCS and DRI.
Findings and Key Lessons
14.   Some key lessons of the RDIP are as follows:
*  a participatory and decentralized operation which is to finance many small
projects in a large number of localities, can not work if it is overburdened by
the bureaucratic, centralized rules which characterize normal operations of the
Colombian Government and World Bank; likewise, a shift in focus from
ex-ante controls to ex-post controls and sanctions is likely to be more
conducive to timely implementation and building accountability at the local
level;
*  a flexible, open design is needed for centrally managed programs targeted to
local governments due to the enormous diversity of capacity, needs and
socio-economic conditions in Colombia;
*  the process of designing this type of operation should be highly participatory,
drawing on the contributions of local communities and municipal governments
to define the basic operating rules which are pertinent --.d consistent with local
capacity, while ensuring an adequate level of transparency and accountability in
use of public funds;
*  a simple monitoring and control system should be in place from the start in this
type of operation in order to rapidly identify and correct problems, and to
identify local governments which require special assistance or, in extreme
cases, disqualification from the program;
*  it is advisable to separate monitoring and evaluation functions, and rely on an
independent agency such as a university (which was a successful aspect of
DRI II) to conduct periodic impact evaluations;
* in view of the Colombian Government's rules concerning management of
Special Accounts, the experience of this project shows that they do not fulfill
their intended purpose and should be dropped; and
*  major institutional and political reforms, such as those undertaken in Colombia
since the conception of the RDIP, are long-term processes and there are bound
to be set-backs and unexpected developments; the Bank needs to exercise
patience and flexibility to support this process and judge the ultimate results in
a time-frame that goes beyond a single lending operation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3250-CO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    Twenty years ago the Colombian Government initiated an integrated rural
development program (DRI) to increase the productivity, incomes and output of small
farmers (campesinos). The program's Phase I (1976-82) and Phase 11 (1983-90),
supported by Bank loans 1352 and 2174, were motivated largely by the Government's
pursuit of self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs (of which small farmers produced some
60 percent) and concern for improving the living standards and productivity of these
farmers many of whom were poor. DRI gained a reputation for being a successful
program which the Bank repeatedly commended as a model.
2.    The third phase, supported by this loan approved in 1990, represented a significant
change in approach which was shaped by Colombia's process of political, administrative
and fiscal decentralization. National reforms empowered municipal residents to elect
mayors for the first time in 1988, assigned municipalities direct responsibility for providing
services previously fuirnished by central government agencies, and gave them the right to
greater financial resources through revenue-sharing. The program's concept and mode of
operation changed from one in which Fondo DRI contracted central government agencies
to carry out program activities to one which gave municipalities and communities a central
role in deciding investment priorities, financing and implementing projects. An important
aspect of the program was support for the transition from centrally financed and organized
extension services for small farmers to municipal responsibility for this service.
A. Project Objectives
3.    The loan, along with one from the Inter-American Development Bank, was to
finance a time slice of the Rural Development Investment Program (RDIP) for 1990-94
consisting of small, discrete environmentally sound projects in 9,000 communities
(602 municipalities in 21 Departments). The project's objectives, as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), were to: (i) increase the incomes of about 280,000 poor farmers
and fishermen mainly in the Andean and coastal areas; (ii) improve living standards of the
rural communities through provision of potable water and better sanitation systems, roads
and marketing facilities; (iii) protect and develop watershed areas; (iv) promote grassroots
involvement of rural communities in the identification of investment needs and subsequent
maintenance; and (v) strengthen DRI's capabilities to prepare, appraise and supervise
projects and help the municipalities administer and cofinance development projects to
support decentralization.



4.     The program had a participatory planning approach and, therefore, leeway was left
for municipalities and communities to decide the investments to be financed as long as
they were on the program's "menu" and respected an agreed set of criteria and
procedures. The loan financed two types of expenditures: matching grants for specific
types of investment projects to be carried out by municipalities and communities, and
activities carried out directly by Fondo DRI including institutional strengthening.' The
scope of investments to be financed was reduced during design, in line with lessons from
the earlier projects, to focus more on improving agricultural productivity, dropping
support for education and health; support for credit to farmers was also dropped due to
financial sector policy issues and past problems with this component.
5.     The program's objectives were not totally clear. There was some tension between
the desire to improve the situation of poor farmers and fishermen, and the "productivity"
focus which led to working in areas with agricultural promise and with farmers having the
potential to become businessmen.2 This was consistent with the Government's strategy at
the time which considered that sustaining high economic growth was the best anti-poverty
strategy. Subsequent analysis showed that despite high growth rates nationally and for
agriculture which resulted in an overall decline in poverty, poverty was becoming
increasingly a rural phenomenon with a broadening gap between living conditions in rural
and urban areas along with significant differences among regions in Colombia.3 To be fair,
the RDIP did have poverty targeting mechanisms: lower income municipalities were
offered special help in preparing subprojects and higher rates of cofinancing. However, its
overriding objective was to help small farmers (campesinos); with the introduction of the
National Cofinancing System (NCS) in 1994, the emphasis on improving productivity was
diluted by the expansion of the program to the entire country with resulting political
pressures to provide equal access to all municipalities and departments.
6.     The establishment of quantitative objectives for economic benefits (i.e. increased
yields and production of agriculture and livestock yielding an economic rate of return of
16 percent for the productive projects) was overly ambitious and unrealistic considering
the enormous changes which were being introduced.4 The appraisal report recognized the
risk that some of the benefits might not materialize during the first five years of the
program, because of inexperience and limited capacity of DRI and the municipalities, the
possible need for greater time to put the new mechanisms into effective operation, and the
possibility that generation of technological packages to increase yields might take longer
1      Fondo DRI differed from a social fund in two respects: it did not have special status which
exempted it from normal Government regulations; and municipalities were responsible for
implementing and cofinancing the subprojects.
2      The original choice of 602 municipalities gave greater weight to a municipality's agricultural
potential than the socioeconomic conditions. This was in part because another Government
program, the National Rehabilitation Program (PNR), was targeted to the poorest, most remote
and violent areas of the country. So, to some extent there was an agreed division of labor
between the two programs.
See Colombia Poverty Assessment Report, No. 12773-CO, August 1994 and Colombia Review of
Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy, Rpt. No. 13437-CO, November 1995.
Infrastructure projects were to have a minimum ERR of 12 percent in order to qualify for
financing.



- 3 -
than expected. The remedies proposed, however, such as a Program Review at the end of
1992, Annual Operating Plans and technical assistance to municipalities did not seem to
address the issue very well. In hindsight, it was unrealistic to expect a major improvement
in yields and production for an operation which was a pioneer of the decentralization
process, piloting new ways of operating which required major changes in behavior at all
levels. In addition, the program's strategy for rural development left out two critical
ingredients for achieving the ultimate objective of increasing incomes, employment and
productivity: small farmers' access to land and capital. These were not being successfully
addressed outside the program either, though a Bank financed project was trying to help
the Government improve the credit situation.5 By mid-1990, increased violence had
become another factor complicating rural development efforts.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.     The project partially achieved its major objectives. Concerning the first three
objectives which relate to the investments financed by the program, the population
benefiting from the program and the level of investments far exceeded expectations
(see Table 5A). The RDIP cofinanced 12,038 projects in the span of six years of which
the bulk of funding was for agricultural extension services and infrastructure; 64 percent
of funding went to the least developed municipalities, while less than 11 percent went to
the most developed. No measurement has been done of the impact of the program on
incomes or living standards, but survey evidence6 indicates a high level of satisfaction of
beneficiaries and municipalities with the program's results. The majority of the
beneficiaries (83 percent) expressed their satisfaction with the projects and considered that
the program has had a positive impact on their well being mainly because of: (i) the
improvement in the quality and coverage of services (63 percent); (ii) the improvement in
income levels (50 percent overall, with 53 percent in the case of men and 43 percent in the
case of women); (iii) the improvement in agriculture production levels (63 percent); and
(iv) the better management of natural resources (54 percent).
8.     The main activity aimed at increasing the incomes of small farmers, as part of the
first objective, was support for the decentralization of the agricultural extension system.
While there was a delay in putting the new system in place, by 1994 municipal units for
agricultural-livestock extension services (UMATAs) had been established in nearly all
municipalities. In 1995, the number of farmers served was double the SAR target and
three times that of the previous extension system. Other productive projects accounted
for a small percentage of expenditures and had mixed results. Efforts to help fishermen,
recognized as one of the most impoverished groups, appear to have failed. As indicated
above, beneficiaries believe that the RDIP has improved incomes and production.
5     ICR Caja Agraria Strengthening Project (Ln. 2909), Report No. 14690.
6      As part of the RDIP's evaluation, DRI undertook a survey in a statistically representative sample
of municipalities (67) to get the opinions of municipal authorities (128 interviews), direct
beneficiaries of projects cofinanced by RDIP during 1991-95 (550 interviews), and other
municipal residents (irrespective of whether they were a beneficiary or not, 827 interviews).
The results for the agricultural extension and infrastructure components are representative at the
national level. In addition, a social assessment was carried out in three, poor municipalities.



9.    Concerning the second objective, the program made an important contribution
towards improvement of infrastructure in rural areas, with roughly 50 percent of RDIP
funds for road improvement and construction, water and sanitation systems benefiting
450,000 rural residents, and rural electrification projects expected to benefit 61,000
families (see Table 5B). While there were some technical weaknesses in design and
implementation, the survey indicated a high level of satisfaction. The third objective, the
watershed component, was a relatively minor part of the RDIP and while it was
implemented satisfactorily, the impact is difficult to measure.
10.  Initially, the program made good progress in promoting the fourth objective of
community involvement, but this was undermined by the onerous procedures and
excessive time between subproject identification and implementation. The design of the
RDIP also underestimated the amount of support required by communities. DRI was
overwhelmed by institutional changes and attention to this fell off. However, this changed
in 1996 when DRI led efforts to make the newly created Municipal Councils for Rural
Development (CMDR) effective forums for community participation. Concerning the fifth
objective, the strengthening of DRI's capacity occurred in the early years, but the
institutional limbo and chaos which resulted from the introduction of the NCS seriously
undermined it. Due to continuous change and uncertainty, the staff suffered from low
morale and Fondo DRI's institutional culture of activism and commitment was muted, at
least temporarily. The related goal of strengthening municipalities was partially achieved.
The expansion of the program to the entire country strained DRI's capacity to attend to
this. However, both the survey evidence and feedback from the government indicate that
the RDIP and DRI are perceived as having made an important contribution to improving
municipal capacity. In addition, through support to the NCS, the RDIP also contributed
to building capacity at the departmental level which was totally unforeseen at appraisal.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.   One of the factors affecting implementation was the RDIP's design, for which the
two Banks and Government were jointly responsible. The major factors affecting the
project were those within the Government's control, though some problems were not
necessarily easy to foresee or handle given the ambitious and politically charged nature of
the decentralization process. Some factors were within the control of DRI, but the
incentives system in the public sector did not encourage attention to problem areas such as
monitoring and evaluation.
12.   The weaknesses in design were not detected immediately, since the program was
launched more quickly than expected. Spurred by substantial demand from the
municipalities which had completed participatory planning, Fondo DRI signed agreements
for some 639 subprojects totaling US$17.8 million in the first nine months (drawing
effectively on the retroactive financing provisions of the Loan Agreement). As early as the
first year, however, operational limitations began to crimp DRI's effectiveness. These
stemmed from a number of factors within the Government's control: (i) the design of the
RDIP was overly bureaucratic and complex, thus inconsistent with the participatory



- 5 -
approach;' (ii) tardy Government funding for recurrent expenses aggravated the problem
of insufficient personnel to master the new approach and increased volume of work
(going from signing 100 contracts a year with public entities to signing up to 2,000
cofinancing contracts per year with 600 municipalities); and (iii) onerous procedures held
up disbursements from and replenishment of the Special Account (SA) managed by the
Central Bank. Nothing was done about the first. Stop-gap measures were deployed to
address the second such as using IICA convenios to hire staff and amending the loan
agreement to allow financing of some operating costs related to supervision. Concerning
the third, due to problems in the previous DRI operation, special measures were put in
place to speed up replenishment of the SA. While these improved somewhat the operation
of the SA, DRI found that use of a revolving fund in pesos (constituted from
reimbursements received from the loan's retroactive financing) which it managed directly
was the most efficient disbursement mechanism. To conclude, an evaluation of the RDIP
in 1994 found that implementation had steadily improved and that by 1993 the new
approach, including effective delegation of responsibilities to DRI's regional offices and
mastery of procedures and instruments introduced by the RDIP, was taking hold.
13.   However, by this time the Govemment had decided to change drastically the
institutional arrangements for implementation of the RDIP without sufficient consideration
of the negative impact on program implementation. The key institutional reform
introduced by Decree 2132 which established the NCS was to assign responsibility for key
operational decisions and activities of the Government's four cofinancing Funds to each of
Colombia's 32 Departments (technical units called UDECOs and Departmental
Cofinancing Committees presided by the Governor were to be established). It mandated
the closure of DRI's regional offices by 1994 which was when the NCS was supposed to
be operational, and required it to use a fiduciary to manage cofinancing funds. In addition,
DRI was required to expand nation-wide (from 602 to more than 1000 municipalities,
21 to 32 Departments) and new subprojects were added to the menu of investments to be
cofinanced. Around the same time, the Government also assigned Fondo DRI
responsibility for new programs including the Plan Pacifico, Plante, and the Red de
Solidaridad, which added to its burden.
14.   The changes created voids in the project machinery. DRI was now dependent on
third parties who, in the short term, lacked the capacity to carry out the program. In
mid-1994, only five Departments had created UDECOs; the following year nearly all the
cofinancing contracts were signed in December due to poor functioning of the NCS.
The programming and budget cycle described in the SAR required 2 years between approval of a
project idea and starting implementation; the reality is that 3 to 4 years was normal which
undermined the participatory planning process as communities became frustrated. This was one
of the key findings of the Evaluaci6n Institucional del Programa de Desarrollo Integral
Campesino 1991-1993, prepared in 1994 by a consulting firm. The evaluation was based on
analysis, including field visits and interviews, of a sample of 14 percent of the projects
cofinanced by DRI between 1990-93 (600 projects in 65 municipalities). DRI's evaluation of the
RDIP recognized that its practice (up to 1995) of establishing, at the central level, budget quotas
per component/per municipality-department undermined the demand-driven aspect of the
program by severely circumscribing local choice.



- 6 -
Management of program funds (contracting, disbursing and some reporting) by a fiduciary
institution created serious problems; this obligation was rescinded eventually by a
Presidential Decree in December 1995. The central Inter-Fund Committee complicated
decision-making and created uncertainty as to which decisions DRI's management could
take independently. There were serious problems coordinating the four funds which had
very different mandates and ways of operating. This improved by 1996 due to a
clarification of the Committee's role and progress in establishing a common set of
operating procedures for the funds.
15.   A major implementation problem throughout was the lack of an adequate
monitoring and control system to track progress in the subprojects being financed.
Financial management in Colombia's public sector, as in DRI, is characterized by an
extremely heavy system of ex-ante controls which make it difficult to spend, but limited
follow-up once expenditures are made. The incentives system rewards managers and
institutions that fully commit their budget before the end of the year, secondarily it
rewards spending the resources. This played itself out in the RDIP by failure to develop
and operate adequate monitoring and control systems. DRI was under enormous pressure
to commit and spend its budget (especially as the crisis of the NCS ensued in 1995), but
under little pressure to put in place an effective monitoring system, though annual audit
reports were very critical of this weakness. Under countervailing pressure from the Bank,
DRI made steady progress to address this problem, undertaking special measures to
monitor problem projects in 1995-1996 and, in 1996, exercising sanctions for
municipalities which did not comply with the terms of the cofinancing contracts.
However, when the loan closed, a satisfactory system had been designed, but was still not
functioning adequately despite considerable efforts by DRI to train, equip and provide
technical support to the UDECOs and municipalities who were the primary providers of
the information.
16.   To its credit, Fondo DRI undertook, with support from the two Banks, remedial
measures and developed some creative responses to the problems resulting from
Decree 2132. These included: creating the centrally-based staff (UNIR) who acted as
liaisons with the local governments (in lieu of staff in the regions which was prohibited),
use of the media for disseminating information and contacting mayors to sign contracts,
contracting of universities and NGOs to support municipalities and communities in project
preparation, and hiring extra personnel to liquidate (audit and legally close) contracts.
Based on DRI and the Government's efforts to address the problems affecting the RDIP
and the belief that the program would have a satisfactory outcome, the Bank agreed to a
one year extension of the Loan's Closing Date. During the last year, the loan supported
DRI's efforts to improve the functioning of the NCS, evaluate the RDIP and formulate a
new program, strengthen the CMDRs, and cofinanced 580 UMATAs.
D. Project Sustainability
17.   Project sustainability is uncertain both in terms of the individual investments
financed and the institutional reforms supported. Concerning the main physical
investments financed, the picture is mixed: (i) the prospects are reasonable for water and
sanitation subprojects with survey results showing 50 percent of the facilities being



- 7 -
operated and maintained by user committees; and (ii) the prospects are less certain for
maintenance of road investments, a municipal responsibility, despite clauses in the
cofinancing contracts which committed the municipality to reserve a certain amount for
maintenance in its budget. Concerning the decentralized extension service, this is a
long-term process of change, but the prospects for sustainability appear good.
Municipalities have assumed a rising share of the cost of these services (60 percent in
1995); in many cases, mayors are actively supporting the UMATAs and farmers are
becoming more vocal about their needs. However, there is some uncertainty as to
whether and when the municipalities will be ready to fully finance these services without
support from the central government; payments by farmers are taking place in a few cases.
18.   Decentralization and community participation are central aspects of Colombia's
1991 Constitution. In this respect, there is a strong underpinning to sustain the
involvement of municipalities and communities in rural development, important objectives
of the RDIP. However, there is much uncertainty as to the sustainability of DRI as an
institution since the recent announcements about the possible "fusion" of the four
cofinancing Funds and eventual elimination of the NCS.
E. Bank Performance
19.   The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. It worked closely with the
Inter-American Development Bank during all phases of the project. During the project
design process, the Bank supported the innovations embodied in the new decentralized
and demand-driven approach proposed by the Colombians. However, in several respects
the Bank's appraisal of the RDIP was deficient. This type of operation was still relatively
new in the Bank; the RDIP's description in the SAR and consequently in the legal
agreements tried to fit a new product into an old model, by making the program appear
more concrete than it was (e.g. setting targets for yield increases). In hindsight, the
project's design also suffered from the Bank's inexperience with participatory approaches.
It could have been improved if it had: incorporated the ultimate beneficiary's views into
the design of the program's operating rules; actively supported capacity building at the
municipal and community level as an end in itself; and established a set of rules and
procedures which accommodated the diversity of capacity and needs within Colombia.
In addition, the Bank did not adequately assess DRI's capacity to triple its coverage and
municipal capacity to implement the subprojects. While there were provisions in the legal
agreements for more staff to manage the increased workload and for sanctions to be
exercised if municipalities did not respect their contractual obligations, these were not
fully respected.
20.   Supervision was satisfactory. In hindsight, perhaps the Bank should have realized
earlier on the serious impact Decree 2132 (adopted in December 1992 for implementation
in 1994) would have on the program's implementation. However, due to a lag between
subproject approval and actual implementation, throughout 1993 and 1994 supervision
missions found evidence of good results on the ground and disbursements continued to be
satisfactory. It was not until late 1994 that the negative impact of Decree 2132 became
clear; the two Banks then assisted DRI to organize a workshop which analyzed the
situation and how DRI could respond. This together with follow-up letters expressing



- 8 -
serious concern got the government to focus attention on the NCS's problems and by
mid-1995 it took some positive actions. Subsequently, the Bank sent a mission of staff
from sectors affected by the NCS to analyze its problems.' The option of suspending
operations was rejected, because DRI and the Government continued to making progress
to address the problems affecting the RDIP and the Bank believed that the program's
development objectives could be achieved despite the problems. In view of the innovative
nature and complex history of this operation, a Performance Audit by OED could be
extremely useful.
F. Borrower Performance
21.   Overall, the Borrower's performance is judged deficient including compliance with
the financial covenants of the Loan Agreement (see Table 8). Colombia of the late 1980s
and 1990s was a caldron of change. Needless to say, the uncertainties generated by the
constantly changing rules of the game--new procurement code, budget law, revenue
sharing and assignment of responsibilities among municipalities, departments and central
level--and institutional reforms took a toll on the capacity to get things done which
affected all Bank operations. The objectives of Decree 2132 were laudable: (i) bring
consistency with the new Constitution, by designating a role for Departments as an
intermediary between the central government and municipalities; (ii) simplify matters for
municipalities so that they do not have to deal with four cofinancing Funds, each with its
own rules; and (iii) provide for more flexible management of funds (exoneration from
certain budget procedures) through use of a fiduciary. However, in view of widely
recognized weak capacity in most Departments9 and inexperience of fiduciaries, the
mandated changes were impractical in the short-term and adequate transitional
arrangements were not provided for. Ironically, the impact of the decree was to
recentralize DRI' s management and make it distant from the municipalities and
communities who were the program's raison d'etre.
22.   The Government was slow to recognize the problems of the NCS and, when it did,
tended to blame the Funds. There appeared to be a lack of sufficient recognition in
Government and political circles that institutional reforms take time to implement. There
was thus a tendency to drop a reform without allowing sufficient time for it to take hold.
Additionally, the NCS had become a political football in the debate about the
decentralization process which was being blamed by some as the principal cause of the
fiscal deficit. In late 1996, just as some positive accomplishments were coming out of the
The mission concluded that while the guiding principles of the NCS were valid, the way it was
being operated was not consistent with the principles enunciated in Documento CONPES 2791,
Ajustes al Sistema Nacional de Cofinanciaci6n, junio 21, 1995. For example, the NCS was to
cofinance investments considered a priority and within the mandate of local governments, yet
members of the legislature were earmarking an increasing share of NCS funds for specific
projects that were not necessarily endorsed by the local government concerned.
Colombia Local Government Capacity: Beyond Technical Assistance (Rpt. No. 14085-CO, July
1995).



-9-
experience of the NCS, both the reputable Public Finance Commission and Minister of
Finance recommended its eventual abolition. 10
23.   Overall, DRI's performance is also judged deficient, but admirable under the
circumstances. Like other public sector agencies, DRI responded to the incentive to
commit and disburse funds, without paying sufficient attention to financial management
and monitoring and evaluation. Institutional instability and constantly changing rules
during the RDIP made it difficult to get things done and eroded institutional capacity.
The Fund performed well in many key areas and showed resilience in the face of much
adversity (para. 16). However, it never overcame the lack of sufficient staff and time to
adjust to the changed circumstances. Some analysts argue that within DRI there was
resistance to the underlying philosophy of the RDIP which gave a central role to
municipalities and communities; directors of the regional offices had enormous power and
did much of the work which was to be done by others."1 With the shock of the NCS,
some staff left and others "dreamed" of the old days when they were the vanguard of
rural development. Just as DRI was settling down to its changed mandate, uncertainty
about its future reemerged.
G. Assessment of Outcome
24.   The RDIP's outcome is judged satisfactory. Despite the many problems and
obstacles described in Part C of this report, the RDIP achieved two of its four major
objectives and partially achieved the others, contributing to a far-reaching process of
change. The number of beneficiaries and level of investment far surpassed expectations,
with the bulk of the resources going to the least developed municipalities. Beneficiaries
and municipalities have expressed a high level of satisfaction with the program's results,
including improved incomes and production (Tables 5A and SB), and the provision of
agricultural extension services by municipalities. The prospects of sustainability are good
for the UMATAs and water and sanitation projects, whereas they are uncertain for roads
and for DRI as an institution. The RDIP was a pioneering operation for the Bank and has
been a model for rural development investment funds being tried in other countries; the
Bank and DRI have organized several study tours, at the request of other countries, to
share the experience with the UMATAs and decentralization.
H. Future Operation
25.   The Government has requested that the IDB support a new phase of DRI's
program, since it is already financing a number of other programs being implemented by
DRI. Lessons from the RDIP are being incorporated into the design, including: greater
emphasis on support for communities and municipalities, and financing of municipal
investment plans instead of individual projects. In the meantime, DRI has agreed with the
10    One reason offered by the Commission was the growing practice of earmarking NCS funds by
legislators; earmarked funds accounted for about 30-40 percent of DRI's investment budget for
1996.
It seems that some staff of Fondo DRI used their power to allocate resources to further their
aspirations for political office. Some analysts say that this was an underlying factor motivating
the Decree.



- 10-
Bank on a plan of work to complete the liquidation of the cofinancing contracts financed
by the loan, and to undertake in 1998 a full impact evaluation of the RDIP (measuring
results against the base-line established in 1991). As part of the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy, it has agreed to support the Government's efforts to reduce poverty
through promoting rural development including land reform. Proposed Bank sector work
should contribute to the Government's thinking about the appropriate role, institutional
arrangements, and financial mechanisms for central government support for rural
development, particularly in view of uncertainties about the future of the NCS and DRI.
I. Key Lessons Learned
26.   Some key lessons of the RDIP are as follows:
*  a participatory and decentralized operation which is to finance many small
subprojects in a large number of localities, cannot work if it is overburdened by
the bureaucratic, centralized rules which characterize normal operations of the
Colombian Government and World Bank; likewise, a shift in focus from
ex ante controls to ex-post controls and sanctions is likely to be more
conducive to timely implementation and building accountability at the local
level;
-  a flexible, open design is needed for centrally managed programs targeted to
local governments due to the enormous diversity of capacity, needs and
socio-economic conditions in Colombia;
-  the process of designing this type of operation should be highly participatory,
drawing on the contributions of local communities and municipal governments
to define the basic operating rules which are pertinent and consistent with local
capacity, while ensuring an adequate level of transparency and accountability in
use of public funds;
*  a simple monitoring and control system should be in place from the start in
this type of operation in order to rapidly identify and correct problems, and
to identify local govemments which require special assistance or, in extreme
cases, disqualification from the program;
*  it is advisable to separate monitoring and evaluation functions, and rely on an
independent agency such as a university (which was a successful aspect of
DRI II) to conduct periodic impact evaluations;
* in view of the Colombian Government's rules concerning management of
Special Accounts, the experience of this project shows that they do not fulfill
their intended purpose and should be dropped; and
*  major institutional and political reforms, such as those undertaken in Colombia
since the conception of the RDIP, are long-term processes and there are bound
to be set-backs and unexpected developments; the Bank needs to exercise
patience and flexibility to support this process and judge the ultimate results in
a time-frame that goes beyond a single lending operation.



- 11 -
Table 1- Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial      Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                   0             0               0               El
Sector Policies                  0             0               0               0
Financial Objectives             0             0               0               0
Institutional Development        0             0               0               0
Physical Objectives              0             0               0               0
Poverty Reduction                0             0               0               0
Gender Issues                    0             0               0               0
Other Social Objectives          0             0               0               0
Environmental Objectives         0             0               0               0
Public Sector Management         0             0               0               0
Private Sector Development       0             0               0               0
Other: Decentralization          O      0                      0               0
B. Project Sustainability          Likely               Unlikel]                Uncertain
(/)                    (v')                    (/)
O                      0                       0
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory       Satisfactory             Deficient
(v')                  (/)                     (/)
Identification                   0                     0                       0
Preparation Assistance           0                     0                       0
Appraisal                        Ol                    0                       0
Supervision                      0                     0                       0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                              0              0             0
Implementation                           0              0             0
Covenant Compliance                      0              O             0
Operation                                0              0             0
Highly                                       Hijy
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
0             0               0               0



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title                    Purpose         Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
1.2nd Integrated Rural Development  Rural development   1982         Closed
2.Small-Scale Irrigation          Small scale irrigation    1989      On-going
schemes
3.Second Rural Roads Sector      Improvement of roads   1990          Closed
in rural areas
Following operations
I.Natural Resource Management    Forest & watershed     1994         Ongoing
management, support
decentralized system to
manage environment.
2.Agricultural Technology        Reform of system for    1995         Ongoing
agricultural technology
generation and transfer.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    -              September 15, 1988
Preparation                                                  Feb-May 1989
Appraisal                                __November 1989
Negotiations                             __May 1990
Board Presentation                        July 10, 1990      July 31, 1990
Signing                                                      September 14, 1990
Effectiveness                                                January 31, 1991
Project Completion                        June 30, 1995      December 31, 1996
Loan Closing                              December 31, 1995  December 31, 1996



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal Estimate                 6,000   13,500  25,500  36,700  52,500  66,700  74,500  75,000 l
Actual                             -       7,084  22,191   32,766  49,442  63,012  75,000  -
Actual as % of Estimate            -        52     87       89     94      94      100   -                        I
Date of Final Disbursement: 6/3/97                                                              l



- 14 -
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
INDICATOR                              OPERATIONAL RESULTS
Stimulation of municipal
investment proposals                          12,038 cofinancing contracts signed by Fondo DRI
Subprojects are implemented on timely basis   45% of projects completed and/or operating by
December 1996; only 8% unfinished (survey)
Numbers Benefited                             Program activities benefited (# of persons):
Women's groups:        10,000
Water projects:       455,000
Rural electrification:  61,000 families
Community development: 84,000
Agricultural extension:  545,000
Fisheries:           20,040
Rural markets:        17,918
50% of water and sanitation projects are operated
Subprojects sustained by community over time  and maintained by community groups (survey)
Involvement of private sector agencies in project    24% of sub-projects executed by private sector
activity                                      (survey)
Focusing program funds on poorest areas       64% of funding allocated to least developed
municipalities (categories 1-3)
Decentralization of agriculture extension service  1,022 UMATAs established serving 97% of
Colombia's municipalities, with 3,539 professionals
(ratio I agent: 154 farmers)
Departmental units for handling DRI program   CODECOs and UDECOs are functioning in all
locally                                       departments with varying degrees of competence
Attention to gender issues                    1,053 rural women's groups formed, 10,281
training sessions held
Transparent, participatory involvement        83% of the beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with
extent of community participation under the
program (survey)
Participation by stage of project cycle       83% of the beneficiaries participated in
identification of projects; 60% in definition of
priorities; 43% in project execution; 89% said they
were informed of monitoring results during
execution (survey)
Attention to indigenous communities' needs    Proposals from indigenous groups awarded highest
level of cofinancing; 2% of DRI budget targeted for
these projects
Note:  The SAR did not include key indicators in part due to the nature of the operation. The projects
cofinanced and executed were.part of a program of interventions based on a demand-driven mechanism,
whose costs, benefits and rates of return could not be determined ex ante.



- 15 -
Table 5B. Key Indicators for Subproject Accomplishments
Total No. of
Project Type         Project                     Output                  No. of Beneficiaries
Agricultural             4,527        1,022 UMATAs established                           545,000
Extension
Technology Transfer  (included above)  1.027 technology trials
and Technical                        9,320 demonstration plots established in
Assistance                           1995
999 extensionists' training events
Marketing                 775        6 regional markets opened                      17,918 (direct)
98 other types of market infrastructure
built
246 municipalities served
Fisheries                 65          12 support centers opened, training                 34,663
Fish Ponds                327         16,087 reservoirs built
1,628 training sessions                            20,040
Watershed                 572        Reforestation and better management
Management                           protecting almost 24,429 ha.
1,043 training classes                        23,663 groups
Irrigation                289        39,463 ha irrigated
Roads                     1454       2,576 kms newly built; over 4,000 km
improved
Water and Sanitation
Systems                  1,917       1,994 facilities built                              449,824
Electrification           632        8,497 connections                             61,000 families
Community                 395         10,281 training events involving 1,569               84,055
Development                          groups
Womens Groups             356         1,053 organized and supported               10,000 (estimate)
Local Institution        1,018       212 training events
l Building                            1,143 pre-investment studies
UDECOs established in all 32
Departments
Note: The SAR did not include key indicators. The Economic Rate of Return for the productive
subprojects (extension, marketing, fisheries, fish ponds) was not recalculated as part of the ICR.



- 16 -
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study              at Appraisal/Redefined                Status              Impact of Study
Institutional Mid-term     Evaluation of project          Completed                  Provided important insights
Evaluation                 performance focusing on                                   into weaknesses in the
institutional aspects (1991-93).                         project design and
operation, particularly
concerning participation
aspects, the role of
municipalities, and the
marketing component.
Governmental policy
changes taking place at the
time of the study
diminished its impact, but it
did influence thinking on
design of DRI phase IV.
Assess Policies on         To assess implementation of    Completed                  Useful, but creation of NCS
Graduation of Municipalities   graduation policies for phasing                       with all municipalities
out municipalities from the                              eligible for financing
program.                                                 irrespective of level of
development made the
policy less relevant.
Baseline Study to Evaluate  To develop a method to measure   Completed               Some significance. DRI
RDIP Impact                project impact through                                    plans to use the baseline to
systematic surveying in the                              do the formal evaluation of
different regions covered by the                         impact in 1998, though the
program.                                                 sample is for the original
602 municipalities.



Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                      Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Item                Local        Foreign        Total         IBRD           IDB        Colombian       Total
Costs         Costs                                                Contribution
1. Agricultural Production and   56.1         20.4          76.4          39.1            30.9         197.7         267.7
Environmental Protection
2. Infrastructure                33.9         73.3         107.3          26.2            38.6         253.8         318.6
3. Training and Community        16.7          4.2          20.9           2.6             4.0           4.9          11.5
Organization
4. Strengthening DR] and          7.2          1.5           8.7           7.1             1.5          35.0          43.6
Municipalities
5. Physical Contingencies         5.7          5.0          10.7
6. Price Contingencies            7.8         18.3          26.1
TOTAL                 127.4        122.6         250.0          75.0            75.0         297.6         641.4
Due to rounding, totals may not add up exactly.



Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                 Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Source         Local Costs   Foreign Costs    Total                        Total
IBRD                    13.7          61.3            75.0                         75.0
IDB                     13.7          61.3            75.0                         75.0
Government (DRI)        37.6                          37.6                        193.8
Municipalities & other  62.5           -              62.5                       297.6                              X
Agencies
TOTAL            127.4         122.6           250.0                       641.4
Note: The IDB loan will continue disbursing throughout 1997, though only a small amount remains.



- 19 -
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
COLOMBIA
Rural Development Investment Program
Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised          Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment       covenant
date       date
Loan        3.01(a)   12        CP      -                       Borrower shall cause DRI  Borrower did not allow
Agreement                                                       to perform in accord with  DRI to adequately
Project Agreement (PA),  increase its staffing. did
will take any action    not take action to get the
necessary or appropriate to financial and monitoring
enable DRI to perform its  problems addressed, and
obligations under PA, and  by adoption of Decree
will not take/permit any    2132 took an action with
action which will prevent  serious negative
or interfere with such  repercussions on DRI's
performance.            ability to respect PA.
3.04     5         CD       11/30/92   -           Govemment, through      Study managed by DRI.
DNP, hire consultants to   Delayed and with Bank's
prepare study of RDIP,    agreement combined with
submit to Bank for review, mid-term evaluation.
agree on action plan to    Study carried out in 1994
implement               and early 1995. completed
recommendations by      June 1995.
11/30/92. Ensure DRI
implements action plain.
3.05     12        CD      9/30/92     -           Govemment to develop a  Policy introduced
graduation policy for   February 1994.
phasing out municipalities
from program; thereafter
implement.
3.06(a)   12       CD       9/30/90    -           Govemment cause ICA to  Plan submitted November
submit action plan and  1992.
timetable, satisfactory to
the Bank, for establishing
additional 19 CRECEDS;
and thereafter implement
such a plan.
3.06(b)   12       CD       9/30/91                Govemment to submit    New system of UMATAs
action plan to phase ICA   %Nas fully in place by end
out of extension. Make    of 1994.
arrangements to provide
extension services to RDIP
beneficiaries.
4.01 (a)   I       CP                              Cause DRI to maintain   Auditors repeatedly
records and accounts in   criticized lack of adequate
accord with sound      intemal controls. Though
accounting practices.  improvements were made.
weaknesses remained at
end of RDIP
4.01 (b)   I       CD       6/30 each              Cause DRI to submit     Reports submitted late.
yr                     annual audit report.



- 20 -
Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised        Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment     covenant
date       date
5.01     13                                       Specific conditions which A number of these
can trigger suspension.   conditions did arise, but
the Bank choose not to
exercise its rights under
this clause.
Project     2.01(c)   5        CP                             DRI shall not fail to  DRI introduced sanctions
Agreement                                                     enforce the Contratos de  and began to enforce the
Cofinanciacion or any    contratos late in the
provision thereof      project. Prior to that
monitoring information
was insufficient to detect
problems in a timely
fashion.
2.04     9         C       6/30/91    -           DRI to complete first  Baseline survey
6/30/95               baseline survey, to hire   completed in 1991, but
10/31/95              consultants acceptable to  Bank accepted DRI's
the Bank, and to       argument that it was too
complete second baseline early to conduct second
survey and the impact    baseline and impact
evaluation.            evaluation, in view of
major disruptions of
NCS. Impact evaluation
planned for 1998,
meanwhile in-depth
evaluation of RDIP done
in 1996 for ICR.
2.08(b)   3       C                               DRI to make suitable    Initial disbursements
arrangements to ensure  lagged under IDB loan
that Bank and IDB loans  due to delayed start-up.
disburse at about the  Measures were taken to
same rate; to be reviewed accelerate pace of
each September.        disbursements to achieve
pan pasu.
3.01     5        CP                              DRI shall carry out its    Serious problems
operations with sound    detected related to
administrative,        monitoring and internal
managerial etc. practices  controls (though
under supervision of   corrective actions taken)
qualified management    and not have adequate
assisted by competent    number of staff
staff in adequate      throughout much of
numbers.               RDIP.
4.01     1         CD      -          -           DRI to submit audit    See Loan Agreement,
reports by June 30 each   para. 4.01 (b).
year.
Schedule          CP                              DRI municipalities will  Proved difficult to
1, para.                                         provide for periodic road  monitor; while provisions
3 (b)                                             maintenance; failure to do made in the cofinancing
so will preclude their    contracts, eligibility
eligibility for future  apparently not denied.
financing of roads as well
as ag. extension, rural
water supply and san.
projects.



- 21 -
lmSection  Covenant Present   Original       Revised          Description of               Comments   a
lrtype   status   fulfillment  fulfillmect covenant                                 l
l                                   ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~date  datel
l         ~~~~Schedule          NC                                   DRI should impose          Cases of outright misuse |
l          I~~~~, para.                                              sanctions, deny            of funds were not         l
l         ~~~~10                                                     participation to           detected during audits,|
l                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~municipalities that not    field visits by Banks, andl
l                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~respect obligations under  special control efforts. |
cofinancing contracts.     However, DRI failed to
detect problems in a
timely manner and
exercise sanctions until
very late in the RDIP.
Schedule 2           CD        -            -            DRI to submit Annual        Delays accepted by Bank.
para. I(a)                                                Operating Plan by          AOP proved unwieldy
September 30 each year.  throughout program;
proved to be unsuitable
instrument after
introduction of NCS.
Schedule  2          CD        -           -             DRI to submit annual        Delays occurred
para.                                                    progress reports by         frequently, but reports of
1(b)                                                     September 30, and          satisfactory quality.
biannual progress reports
by June 30 and December
31, each year.
Schedule 2           CP        -                         DRI to retain adequate    Not done due to
para.                                                     staff.                     restrictions imposed by
4(a)                                                                                 Government. Ad-hoc
solutions done.
Schedule  2          C                                   DRI to maintain a           -
para.                                                     coordinating unit.
4(b)
Covenant types:
1. =  Account/Audits                                      8.  = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds              11.    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4.     Counterpart finding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects ofthe project or executing      12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                    action
6. =  Environmental covenants                            13.  = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 22 -
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OP 10. 02 - Financial Management        Financial management aspects were not fully
complied with. Poor internal controls in DRI's
accounting system and insufficient monitoring
resulted in delays and inaccurate reporting.
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Planned       Revised              Actual
Project Cycle
Week US$    Weeks US$  Weeks   US$"'
Preparation to Appraisal          n/a      n/a   n/a      n/a    66.5   226,100
Appraisal                         n/a      n/a   n/a      n/a   139.1   472,940
Negotiations through Board Approval  n/a   n/a   n/a      n/a    18.8      63,920
Supervision                       n/a     n/a   n/a       n/a   138.0    469,200
Completion                        n/a      n/a   n/a      n/a      9.0    30,600
TOTAL                                                          541.4  1,262,760
1/ Assumes US$3,400 per staffweek



- 23 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfomiance Rating
Number                     Specialized     Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of        Days in        Staff Skills      tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field       Represented        Status        Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal and    11/88    2           5             A, I
Board Approval                                          __
5/89       6           10            A, F,O                 _
12/90      2           5             A,O                    _              _
Supervision            3/91       7           3             E, A, F, D, 0          1
9/91       5           10            E, F, A,               1
5/92       7           10            E, A,O                 1
12/92      4           10            E, EN, O               2
8/93       2           10            E, F                   2
5/94       3           10            E, F, A                2
6/94       1           4             F                      -               -
12/94      4           10            E, A, S                S              S
6/95       6           5             E, A, F, S             S              S
8/95       1           3             E
12/95      4           10            E, A, F, S             S              S
Completion             10/96      1           10            S                      S              S
1/97       2           6             E, S                   S              S
Skills Represented:
E = Economist               I = Institutional Development Specialist
F = Financial Analyst       EN = Environmental Specialist
A = Agriculturalist         0 = Operations/Disbursement Analyst
S = Social Scientist



- 24 -
Appendix A
Translated from Spanish
RURAL INVESTMENT COFINANCING FUND - DRI
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF EVALUATION OF THE
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM - RDIIP, 1991-1996
1.   The following is a summary of those aspects that DRI considers most significant
from its report Evaluation of the RDIP. This report was the result of a complex exercise
including an internal evaluation within DRI, a social assessment with different actors
involved in the program, and a quantitative evaluation performed through a survey carried
out in a representative sample of municipalities. The findings presented here are based on
detailed reports about each of the subjects and program components considered important
in the aforementioned evaluation.
A.  Financial evaluation
2.   The amount of funds committed and transferred during the 1991-1996 period (see
Tabl_ 1, Annex) shows that the Program exceeded by more than 2.5 times the original
financial goals. In fact, during this period, DRI cofinanced subprojects under the RDIP
for an amount equivalent to US$641.4 million (US$343.8 million contributed by Fondo
DRI including the IDB/IBRD loans of US$75 million each, and US$297.6 million
contributed by the municipalities, communities and others). The total amount spent (value
of completed projects plus amounts disbursed by DRI for projects under implementation)
as of December 1996 was US$356.0 million' for the 12,038 cofinancing contracts which
were signed during 1991-96.
3.   In 1990, the most optimistic forecasts for the RDIP were that Fondo DRI would
sign close to 1,500 cofinancing contracts annually (2 or 3 per municipality per year).
Already in 1993, DRI exceeded this estimate by 30%, reaching a level of more than 2,600
contracts per year in 1995 and 1996. In the RDIP's six-year period of implementation,
Fondo DRI signed more than 12,000 cofinancing contracts, almost twice the expected
number.
4.   However, there was no lack of problems, particularly related to the participatory
planning process as originally designed. In fact, in order to accelerate the process of
establishing the Municipal Projects Banks (Banco de Proyectos Municipales) where
projects must be registered prior to DRI's signing a cofinancing contract, the previously
defined consultation process with communities became lax (theficha veredal was
This refers to the liquidated (audited and legally closed) cofinancing contracts as of December
1996 corresponding to the 1991-94 period (close to 82% of all commitments made have been liquidated,
with payment of balance still pending ) and payments (drawn or disbursed ) made by DRI as of
December 1996 for cofinancing contracts signed in 1995 and 1996 (projects under execution) with the
local or municipal counterpart contribution not yet entered into the books. Therefore, these figures
underestimate the real amount financially "executed".



- 25 -
dropped, the DRI Committees were reduced to almost nothing, and the fulfillment of the
project eligibility requirements contained in the Operating Rules-Reglamento Operativo
were not properly enforced).
B.  Analysis of the targeting of investment
5.   The RDIP's targeting mechanisms which, paradoxically, became more appropriate
and necessary when the program's coverage was extended to the whole country and new
components were introduced, were not used by DRI to their full potential. If there had
been a more sincere and transparent use of these targeting mechanisms, the RDIP might
have been able to achieve a greater impact in more backward areas, in greater need of this
type of assistance. Even so, as explained below, the RDIP achieved an acceptable
targeting of investment by component and by category of municipality (as defined by the
National Cofinancing System).
6.   Targeting by component. Table 2 (see Annex) shows the committed resources of
the RDIP disaggregated by component (type of subproject). There are only slight
variations in the percentage per component compared to the original plans, due to DRI's
practice of setting budget allocations by component rather than relying on the real and
effective demand for investment of the municipalities themselves (one of the original
principles of the program). In other words, the fact that there are no great differences
between the percentages of funds programmed for various components (subprojects) and
the amount executed is not by chance or due to good guesses about municipal demand
during the initial programming exercise, rather it was predetermined by the annual
programming system. In absolute terms, all components received a greater amount of
resources in comparison with the amounts originally planned.
7.   Targeting by category of municipality. Similarly, an adequate distribution of
resources by category of municipality is noted (see Table 3, Annex). The less developed
municipalities (Categories 1, 2 and 3), representing a little over 51% of all municipalities,
received 64.2% of the resources, while the more developed ones (Categories 6, 7 and 8),
representing around 17% of the total, only received 10.3%. These figures reflect the
Program's redistributive effect and demonstrate that most of the resources were
concentrated on the poorest municipalities.
C.  Institutional and normative aspects
8.   Contribution of the RDIP to the decentralization. The process of decentralizing
rural development in Colombia began in 1987 when, through Decree-Law 77/87, new
responsibilities for rural development were assigned to municipalities. Also, Fondo DRI
was assigned the new function of assisting municipalities in this process through the
cofinancing of programs and projects. The planning and design of the RDIP was made on
the assumption that the decentralization process, particularly its start-up, was going to be
slow and difficult. However, the decentralization advanced far more quickly than
expected, even by the most optimistic forecasts.



- 26 -
9.  In effect, the enactment of the new Colombian Constitution in 1991 ratified and
deepened the principles which had been the origin of the decentralization of rural
development starting in 1987. Thus, for instance, in addition to increasing to three years
the period in office of mayors, the Constitution provided for the popular election of
Governors to head the departments. Consequently, the Government had to assign to the
departments, new responsibilities in the direction and orientation of rural development,
some of which clearly competed with responsibilities of the municipalities and/or even the
central government.
10. As a result of these changes, in December 1992, the Government enacted Decree
2132/92: (i) creating the National Cofinancing System (NCS); (ii) changing the old Fund
for Integrated Rural Development - DRI into the Rural Investment Cofinancing Fund -
DRI. The Decree required, among other things, the dismantling of DRI's Regional
Offices in the departments and cleared the way for departments to participate in the
administration of the NCS (for which, later on, the Specialized Departmental Cofinancing
Units-UDECOs were created). In addition, also in fulfillment of mandates in the new
Constitution, in 1993, Congress passed Law 60 which established regulations concerning
the attributions and fiscal transfers to municipalities and departments. So, scarcely two
years after starting the RDIP, the norms and institutional framework had undergone a
profound transformation that had direct consequences for its implementation.
11. In the context of this decentralization process, the RDIP is recognized as having
-made contributions in the following areas:
* Successful experiences in participatory planning and democratic management of rural
development in municipalities throughout different regions of the country.
* Clear understanding among the principal actors of the NCS about the central role and
importance of the project as a planning unit.
* Greater capacity in a majority of municipalities to formulate and present, in a timely
manner, their projects to the NCS.
* More direct and effective pressure from municipal residents regarding the management
of public resources, forces which require mayors to generate some community backing
when defining their actions.
* Existence of more than 700 Municipal Councils for Rural Development which,
although still in their beginnings, constitute the seed for the new institutional
arrangements for promoting and managing the development of rural societies in a
more democratic manner.
* A basic and explicit concern of communities to guarantee adequate supervision of the
projects (this is one of the most important indicators taking into account that
Colombia has no experience or interest in the subject).
12. Institutional adaptation of Fondo DRI. Two formal reorganizations of DRI were
undertaken during the program: (i) in 1989, for the start-up of the RDIP, and (ii) in 1993,
for the start-up of the NCS which required closing DRI's Regional Offices. In addition, in



- 27 -
1995, a functional reorganization of the entity took place through the creation of working
groups specialized in critical subjects; this was aimed at reactivating and redimensioning
the relations between the center (DRI-Bogota) and the regions. It should be recognized
that DRI developed a great capability during the implementation of the RDIP to identify
alternative ways of operating which would efficiently respond to the changes imposed
from outside and for reasons unrelated to Fondo DRI's mission; these changes were made
without allowing time for DRI to consolidate any of the previous institutional changes.
Despite this, Fondo DRI succeeded in effectively maintaining its role as a leader in rural
development.
13. Efficiency and effectiveness of the institutional framework. DRI ran the RDIP
with adequate institutional efficiency, in so far as it succeeded in exceeding the expected
results with regard to the number of subprojects contracted and resources transferred.
However, from the point of view of institutional effectiveness, despite the fact that the
results are not negative according to the perception of the beneficiaries and some
intermediary actors, it must be pointed out that the internal difficulties experienced from
1991-96 (particularly, the ambiguity and lack of definition concerning institutional
responsibilities for the quality and efficiency of the programs) had negative repercussions
on the institutional climate in which DRI had to carry out the RDIP.
14.  Similarly, the tension--and in many cases, the conflict--generated between the
central and regional levels (first with DRI's Regional Directors, and later on with the
departments and UDECOs) as part of the decentralization process (meaning, transfer of
real power over planning and allocation of resources) became a great difficulty for the
RDIP's implementation that had direct repercussions for the independence of the local and
municipal authorities to decide which projects would be supported.
D.  Community participation in the RDIP
15. The instruments designed to facilitate community participation in decision-making
processes, which was one of the fundamental precepts of the RDIP, did not operate in the
manner originally anticipated. The ficha veredal (village data sheet) and the DRI
Committees, which were put into place at the end of Phase 11 (1988 - 1990), did not hold
up adequately to the magnitude and scope of the new dynamic generated by the
decentralization process and the countervailing struggle of the old political actors to
maintain regional hegemony (in contrast to the new actors who now began participating in
the local and regional political game). Thus, none of these instruments was capable of
stopping, or even reducing, the effects of this dynamic; although the instruments continued
to operate for some time (1991-1993), this was simply to satisfy a requirement, and, after
a short while, they were forgotten. Later, in 1994 the Municipal Councils for Rural
Development (CMDR) were introduced. Although, they are better structured--to take into
account the different local political interests--they have not yet become a central feature of
municipal life, with the exception of a few regions where the political culture favors the
full and open participation of the people.



- 28 -
16.  The decentralization of decisions in order to bring them increasingly closer to the
communities did not produce the expected results. Although in the process the central
bureaucracy of Fondo DRI yielded and lost much discretionary power, the decision-
making power was not effectively transferred to the rural communities; it remained stuck
halfway (at the regional, departmental or municipal level) in the center of the political
struggle for the control and management of the program's resources and, obviously, of
the corresponding electoral "dividends". The clearest demonstration of the struggle to
handle and control these resources was the appearance since 1994 in Fondo DRI's budget
appropriation of specially assigned or earmarked funds to cofinance projects endorsed
by members of Congress.
17.  Under these circumstances, community participation in the RDIP was mainly limited
to consultation for the identification of the projects and, more recently and to a lesser
degree, to prioritizing projects. The decisions about planning, implementation and
contracting and monitoring are taken by other actors, mainly local politicians with varying
degrees of commitment to the community. The latter depends on several factors, with the
regional political culture being particularly important: the more traditional and
paternalistic the relationship between politicians and voters, the more passive, dependent
and scarce is the community participation. In those regions where the community has
achieved greater levels of institutional development, there is less political patronage and
community participation is more active and decisive.
E.  Accomplishments of the Monitoring and Evaluation System
18.  Although the general tone of observations made about the monitoring and
evaluation system seem to show dissatisfaction, it is also recognized that the efforts made
until now by DRI to standardize and systematize these processes are important
accomplishments. The development of instruments to identify, plan and evaluate projects
as part of the monitoring and evaluation system was a positive step. However, the
municipalities are not wholly capable of managing the designed instruments and, therefore,
the information they collect is not flowing adequately and does not properly serve the
purposes of the monitoring and evaluation system at the central level of Fondo DRI or at
the level of the departments/UDECOs. The system is even less effective as a tool to help
the municipalities improve their management of cofinanced projects.
19.  DRI has the technical and operational design of a monitoring and evaluation system
for rural development projects, and great progress has been made in the design of a system
for the computerized handling of basic internal management information. However,
neither system satisfies DRI's requirements for handling and systematizing management
information. DRI is not utilizing the potential of these systems to improve its overall
performance, nor is it using them to support efforts of local governments to improve the
planning, management and execution of the rural development projects for which they are
responsible.



- 29 -
F.  Accomplishments in environment management
20. Environment management in the RDIP advanced well with regard to the
development of basic procedures and technical support for DRI as an entity and for the
local governments presenting projects to be cofinanced. Also, the investments made
through the Micro Watershed subprogram are recognized as having made a positive
contribution to protecting, preserving and/or recovering natural resources. Yet,
notwithstanding the important accomplishments and the short time DRI has been involved
in environment matters, some difficulties continue to exist in this area--both inside DRI, in
the projects, as well as in the "beneficiary" population and its natural setting.
G.  Main accomplishments of the RDIP's components
21.  Institutional strengthening. This component contributed to the successive
reorganizations the entity had to tackle, as well as to: the development of training and
support strategies in the regions (in particular, the establishment of the "project" culture);
and to the dissemination in all municipalities of the principal instruments for regional and
local planning needed to get access to NCS resources. However, the accomplishments
and results were not totally satisfactory due to the following reasons: (i) continuous
change in the rules of the game prevented the development and consolidation of proposals;
(ii) actions were unfocused and dispersed; (iii) high discretionary power of DRI's central
authorities in the programming of the resources; (iv) lack of leadership to direct the
component; (v) excessive emphasis in the planning stage and negligence during the
execution stage; and (vi) lack of an adequate methodology to evaluate the component.
22. Rural organization and training. The main contribution of this component was
the support given to the formation and consolidation of the CMDRs. The following
obstacles affected this component: (i) execution of the component was disconnected
from the concept contemplated when it was originally formulated; (ii) the characteristics
(more than the weaknesses) of the control, monitoring and evaluation system prevented a
feedback process; and (iii) the Association of DRI Users (ANDRI) failed as an
organizational option for small farmers; and (iv) the ficha veredal created more
expectations than results.
23. Rural woman. According to the survey, women considered the main success factor
of this component was the incorporation of activities contributing to their personal
improvement; they also specially recognized the role played by the UMATAs in the
success or failure of the projects. Despite the progress of Fondo DRI, it was recognized
that discriminatory conditions continue to exist in the rural sector. There are not enough
explicit and attractive incentives for the municipal authorities and rural communities to
guarantee the incorporation of women's needs and potentialities in the municipal plans for
rural development.



- 30 -
24. Technological Development. The most remarkable result of this component, and
without any doubt one of the RDIP's most important ones, is to have contributed more
than any other Entity or Government program to the establishment of the municipal
system of free extension services to small rural producers through the UMATA. As a
matter of fact, one of the few successes so far obtained--probably the only one--in the
process of political and administrative decentralization of the public agricultural sector in
Colombia, was to get the municipalities to assume responsibility for this service. The
contribution of Fondo DRI in this respect was fundamental with regard to funds as well as
to technical orientation through the norms for obtaining financing.
25.  Marketing. The performance of this component constituted, again, the great
disappointment of RDIP's rural development strategy. The underlying strategy was to
support processes to increase supply in coordination with demand in regional markets and
terminals in sufficient volumes to achieve efficiency. More than any other component, this
one faced interference of many actors and interests that deviated the subprojects from the
intended objectives. The participation of the beneficiaries was limited to the initial
consultation processes, while planning, approval, execution and operation were
concentrated in the hands of RDIP staff (at the local, regional as well as national level)
and, to a lesser degree, the leaders of the participating organizations.
26. Micro Watersheds. Reforestation (not integrated) projects prevailed, due to the
greater acceptance of this type of project in the communities. As an accomplishment, it is
important to emphasize the implementation of projects to mitigate environmental impacts,
although they continue to be insufficient in relation to needs. Despite this progress, there
are still numerous and important obstacles that must be solved in order for the
municipalities to assume fully their responsibility regarding environment management,
territorial ordinance and the preservation of natural resources in rural zones.
27. CESPAS - Service Centers for Non-Industrial Fishing. Another of the RDIP's
great disappointments was the execution of the CESPA strategy. The problems were
similar to though more serious than the agricultural marketing component and less was
accomplishment with very unsatisfactory results. The fishermen's cooperatives supported
by the RDIP were not capable of assuming the administration of the Centers, much less to
operate and maintain them according to economic profitability criteria. The participation
of the cooperatives was more formal than real; for that reason, as soon as the support of
the executing-promoting entity (NGO) was over, the projects declined rapidly.
28.  Fish Ponds. Fulfillment of the financial and physical goals was quite satisfactory.
This activity provided an alternative source of supplementary financial and food resources
quite attractive for the small rural producers. In addition, it permits a more rational use of
the productive resources of the small rural producers, reducing the "dead" periods when
manpower of the rural family is available.
29. Rural Roads. According DRI's central staff, this component succeeded in
improving the competitive conditions of hundreds of thousands of rural families through



- 31 -
better access to input and product markets. In the regional workshops held as part of the
evaluation, as well as in the results of the survey of beneficiaries and mayors, it was found
that this was the most important and recognized component of the Fondo DRI in its entire
twenty year history. According to the survey, 79% of the beneficiaries consider that the
roads subprojects are functioning adequately.
30. Water Supply and Basic Sanitation. Historically, this component is considered
by beneficiaries and mayors to be one of the greatest contributions to rural development.
According to the survey, 77% of the beneficiaries consider that the subprojects are
functioning adequately; benefited the neediest population (55%); improved the quality of
services (56%); and improved service coverage (54%).
31. Rural electrification. This component was included in the RDIP in the last three
years. Since electric power is one of the greatest needs for rural development and given
that few entities either public or private are backing rural electrification, Fondo DRI's
resumption of financing for this type of project has been very much appreciated.
H. Performance of the Fondo DRI Fund in the Implementation of the RDIP
32. The RDIP's implementation was carried out in an agitated international and national
context and in the middle of profound changes in the institutional framework. The
institutional development of DRI was amply exceeded by changes in the framework, so
that the only thing permanent during the RDIP's implementation period was change itself
33. The planning and execution of the RDIP were done within the context of a
decentralization process that meant a profound change in the responsibilities and relations
between the different levels of government (Nation, Department, Municipality) and
between the State and civil society. In effect, the responsibility for rural development was
shifted from the central government to the municipalities, and the mechanism for access to
resources is now based on demand and free competition between public and private
institutions. The central level now performs an advisory and monitoring function for local
initiatives. In this way, the RDIP cannot be evaluated based on the original plans, because
its relationship with and degree of control over those implementing the program
substantially changed.
34. The evaluation of DRI's performance in the implementation of the RDIP by the
different actors is not homogeneous. These are some of the conclusions:
* Self-evaluation (DRI)
As a result of a self-evaluation workshop and a survey of managers (deputy directors and
division chiefs), the following were considered to be the principal accomplishments:
definition of the mechanisms for access to the cofinancing resources and high capacity to
commit resources; introduction of the rural development concept at all levels of
government, important increase in the service coverage by the State through DRI,



- 32 -
development of instruments for identification, planning and evaluation of rural
development projects; institutionalization of the UMATA; and start of environmental
work.
The following are the views among DRI staff on the difficulties encountered: lack of
quality of the projects; lack of ownership of the RDIP's objectives within DRI;
intervention of strongly decisive political elements at regional and local levels; resistance
of DRI's staff to the practical and daily consequences of decentralization; difficulty of
centrally based technicians to prepare simple instruments for the regional technicians who
today are performing the work they used to do before; and ignorance of DRI's staff of the
cross-cutting components destined to strengthen the management capacity of the RDIP.
* Regional Workshops (Beneficiaries, Mayors, Staff of UDECOs etc.)
The principal accomplishments and/or strong points (certainly quite numerous) identified
by the participants in the 8 regional workshops dealt with the following subjects: 20 years
experience and continuity of the DRI's involvement in integrated rural development;
credibility in the eyes of the rural community and the local governments; management
capability; clear and operational instruments including operating rules, mechanisms of
control, monitoring and evaluation, component design; leadership inside the NCS and
within the Ministry of Agriculture; power to convene and capability to consult with the
community and institutions in the sector; and capability to reach the poor and needy.
The following are the weaknesses identified in the workshops, prioritized according to the
importance each workshop assigned to the different problems: community participation;
political interference; insufficient resources; red tape; high cofinancing percentage or
unfair cofinancing matrix; community training; lack of monitoring and evaluation; delayed
disbursements; lack of coordination between projects and development plans; and little
flexibility in the face of regional diversity.
L      Evaluation of IBRD's performance in the implementation of RDIP
35.  In the RDIP's implementation, the IBRD has fulfilled an important role since the
program design process; during the missions, there were discussions originating from
differing points of view. However, in general the relations between IBRD and Fondo DRI
were always cordial and valuable for the RDIP' s execution.
36. From DRI's point of view, IBRD was quite flexible, taking into account that during
the time of Program execution, several institutional changes took place that in one way or
another affected the initially defined design as well as the implementationi. In addition,
through supervision missions, the IBRD contributed important elements in aspects such
as: institutional strengthening of DRI; environmental aspects; control and monitoring
system; rural woman; NCS; municipal councils for rural development; extension services;
and financial matters.



- 33 -
37. There are some significant aspects to be considered as lessons for future programs,
such as: (i) the need to design monitoring instruments that are simpler and more effective
in their application, and to assign a prudent amount of time to consolidate any strategy in
program implementation, before making changes; (ii) the Bank's support to the extension
services component could have been more successful if specialists familiar with the
situation in other countries had shared their experiences, thus deriving from international
experience the lessons which could be applied in Colombia's programs; (iii) the possibility
of using the "cashier account" and the "special account" for the withdrawal of funds from
the Loan account, expedited the disbursement of resources from the Loan, since if all
disbursements had to be made through the special account, they would have been slower
due to the strict rules for handling SA funds; and (iv) the combination of the IBRD and the
National Government rules and procedures affect the agility in executing the Program,
therefore ways should be found to reconcile them.
J. Evaluation of implementing agencies and contractors
38. Cofinancing Agreements. The cofinancing contracts financed by the RDIP were
executed by five types of implementing agencies as follows: 37.7% by municipalities;
9. 1% by public enterprises; 23.6% by private enterprises; 23.4% by communities; 6% by
others. The performance of the five types of agencies was evaluated taking into account
the following aspects: projects whose execution was affected due to problems of technical
incompetence of the executor; unfinished projects due to poor execution; service projects
with delays at the beginning of the execution due to the executor; and infrastructure
projects with delays at the beginning of the operation, also due to the executor. Table 4
(see Annex) presents a summary of the situation for each type of problem. It shows that
despite the fact that they are in charge of the bigger volume of projects, the municipalities
present a smaller percentage of those whose execution was affected due to their technical
incompetence. The communities were responsible for the execution of an important
amount of projects: 23.4% of the total, 19.6% of the services and 28.1% of infrastructure;
communities presented a very low percentage of unfinished projects attributed to them,
and low percentages of projects with delays at the beginning of their execution in the case
of services and at the beginning of their operation in the case of infrastructure projects.
Public enterprises were not the best executors of infrastructure projects, while on the
other hand they were the best in service projects. Private enterprises are very good
executors in infrastructure projects.
39.  Consultants Contracts. The following conclusions were drawn concerning
consultants: (i) in the case of preinvestment studies, this evaluation shows a good
performance of consultants (individuals and companies) in all components; (ii) in the case
of consultancies on specific subjects and evaluation of the RDIP, the evaluation concludes
that consultants in most cases had adequate credentials and did a good job (but in some
cases more could have been gained); (iii) with respect to supplemental personnel (the
regular staff was insufficient to implement the RDIP both before and after the creation of
the UDECOs), they worked directly in the units needing support and their contribution
was fundamental for RDIP's development; and (iv) in relation to the Technical



- 34 -
Cooperation Agreements with the IICA, the evaluation concluded that they expedited the
execution of the institutional strengthening component, but the percentage of resources
directed to administrative expenses must be curtailed.
K. Principal lessons learned about the RDIIP's strategy: impact and sustainability
40.  Relevancy. The RDIP's strategy was relevant: it led and accompanied the
decentralization process and, despite the give and take, it has been one of the govemment
programs with the greatest impact on strengthening the management capability of the
municipalities. Likewise, the RDIP's instruments, components and approach were
relevant. It helped establish the "project culture" at municipal and regional levels. The
components were also appropriate; with the exception of credit and agrarian reform, the
most relevant aspects for rural development were included. Other instruments, such as
programming of resources by demand and planning "from the bottom up" with the
decisive participation of the community did not fully achieve the expected objectives.
41.  Efficiency. The strategy was very efficient. In fact, despite the delays and the
constant complaints, in six years (only one more than expected) 2.5 more resources were
transferred than originally planned, and the program succeeded in mobilizing greater
resources and at the same time tripled the number of projects financed.
42.  Effectiveness. Although it is too early yet to evaluate the strategy's effectiveness,
which must be measured more appropriately during 1998 (evaluation of the RDIP's
impact), according to indirect data derived from this progress evaluation, the strategy was
also effective, according to the degree of beneficiary satisfaction with the projects, as well
as the results obtained with respect to developing greater management capability of
municipalities and departments. At the same time, there are clear indications that the
accomplishments were not well oriented to the paradigms or model for rural development.
In fact, there is still much to do in order that the projects financed effectively contribute to
improving competitiveness, sustainability and equity (both between men and women, as
well as youth and adults, campesinos, blacks and indigenous people).
43.  Thanks to the combination of credibility and technical capability generated by the
DRI programs between 1976 and 1990, and the efforts in institutional development,
Fondo DRI succeeded in implementing under the RDIP far more resources than expected,
as well as maintaining its leadership in the agricultural sector and in the NC S. This was
achieved despite the difficulties, both intemal and extemal, which were the product of
Decree 2132/92 and the incorporation of the Presidential Programs and the projects
financed with earmarked funds.
44. Sustainability of the strategy: need to incorporate the political variable. The
strategy by itself is not sustainable. On the contrary, it was designed to disappear insofar
as the municipalities fully and responsibly assumed their functions regarding rural
development. Therefore, the support strategy of the National Government, although it
must disappear gradually, still has an important task to fulfill: imprinting a greater quality



- 35 -
to the process. To this effect, it is essential to incorporate the political variable, in the best
sense of the expression.
45.  In order that the municipalities really take ownership of the models of rural
development policy (competitiveness, sustainability, equity), it is necessary that the new
support strategy be structured around the rural communities political participation in
municipal life. And, with such a base, to coordinate the municipal plans for rural
development with their medium and long term strategic vision, and their short term (three
years) investment plan. In other words, the central level must modify the strategy, forget
about added value with respect to quality of the projects (justification of Phases I and II
and a very important element of the RDIP) and design a new strategy with emphasis on
the quality of the rural development processes, honoring and applying the aforementioned
models with regard to municipal plans for rural development.
Annex, Table I
PDIC: Compromisos adquiridos y ejecutados 1991 - 1996 (en US$ millones, 1996) (1
Afho    Fondo DRI  Municipios y   Valor total    Liquidado o  Nuitmero de
(2)        otros     compromisos    girado (3)   Convenios
1991       40,0         29,1         69,1          55,9         882
1992       40,5         31,3         71,8          66,5        1.382
1993       58,7         44,0         102,7         85,8         1.899
1994       66,1         64,0         130,1         76,7        2.490
1995       66,2         66,5         132,7         51,7        2.734
1996       72,4         62,5         134,9         19,5        2.651
Totales     343,8        297,6        641,4         356,0       12.038
(%)      (53,6%)      (46,4%)      (100,0%)      (55,5%)
Fuente: Fondo DRI, Subdirecci6n de Planeaci6n, 1997.
Notas:
(1) Los pesos de 1996 se convirtieron a US$ d6lares a una tasa de COL$ 1.000 por
US$ 1.
(2) Incluye aporte del Gobierno y prestamos del BID/BIRF (US$150 millones, entre
ambos)
(3) Para el periodo 1991-94 se refiere al valor de los convenios liquidados hasta
dic/96 (cerca del 82% del total de convenios del periodo); para 1995-96 se
contabilizan unicamente los pagos (giros) realizados por el Fondo DRI hasta dic/96
con cargo a los convenios realizados.



- 36 -
Annex, Table 2
PDIC: Compromisos adquiridos por Componentes
durante el periodo 1991 - 1996 (en US$ millones, 1996)
Valor        (%)       Numero de  Valor por
COMPONENTES               compromisos               Convenios   Convenio
(U     )
Organizaci6n y Capacitaci6n      11,5          1,8%        395        29.122
Fortalecimiento Institucional    43,6         6,8%        1.018       42.844
Mujer Rural                8,0          1,2%        356        22.437
Desarrollo Tecnol6gico         176,3       27,5%        4.527      38.948
Comercializaci6n            39,4          6,1%        775        50.867
Centros para la Pesca Artesanal    7,7          1,2%         65        118.256
Acuicultura               14,7         2,3%         327        45.029
Microcuencas               21,5         3,4%         572       37.670
Vias                   130,6        20,4%       1.454       89.802
Acueductos y Saneamiento Basico    134,4        21,0%        1.917      70.121
Electrificacion Rural         53,6         8,4%         632       84.789
TOTALES                   641,4       100,0%       12.038      53.280
Fuente: Fondo DRI, Subdirecci_ n de Planeaci6n, 1997.
Annex, Table 3
PDIC: Compromisos adquiridos por Categorias Municipales
del SNC durante el periodo 1991 - 1996 (en US$ millones, 1996)
Valor                Valor por     Numero
Categorias municipales    compromis   (%)       Municipio        de
Os                (USS miles)   Convenios
1: 1, 2 y 3 (549 mpios.)      411,8      64,2%       750,2         7.547
11: 4 y 5 (332 mpios.)        163,7      25,5%       493,1         3.153
III: 6, 7 y 8 (187 mpios.)    65,9       10,3%       352,1         1.338
TOTALES (1.071 mpios.)      641,4      100,0%       598,9        12.038
Fuente: Fondo DRI, Subdireccion de Planeacion, 1997.



- 37 -
Annex, Table 4
PORCENTAJE DE PROYECTOS DEL TOTAL DE LOS REAUZADOS POR CADA TIPO DE EJECUTOR
QUE PRESENTARON LOS DIFERENTES PROBLEMAS CAUSADOS POR EL EJECUTOR
(PORCENTAJES)
TIPO DE   PORCENTAJE PORCENTAJE DE PORCENTAJE DE  PORCiNTAJE DS   PORCENTAJE DE   PORCENTAJE DE    PORCENTAJE DE
LJECtJTOR   TOTAL DE  PROYECTOS POR PROYECTOS POR   PROYECTOS DE    PROYEICTOS DE    PROYECTOS DZ  PROYECTOS DE
PROYECTOS    TIPO DE   TWO DE tzCUIOr SERVICIOS POR TPO SERV'CiOS POR TWO IEFRAESTRUCTURA i4FRARUCTUILA POR
POR TIPO DE   EJECUTOR  INCONCLUSOS Pr    DE WEcUrOR   DE IJECUTOR CON    POR TIPO DE   TIPO DE EZJCUTOR CON
EJECUTOR  AEECTADOS POR MAEA ECUCION                 DEMORAS EN EL  U JECUTOR    DIMORAS EN RL WNCIO
INCAPACIDAD                                 ?4CMO DR LA                   Di EA OPIRACI6N
TECNICA DEL                              EJECUION DEBmAS                DEDWAS AL EJECUTOR
EJECUOR                                   AL LECUrOR
MUNICp=IO        3770        5.6S            0.4            5.00            7.95           13.20              0.7
iMPRESA           9.10          57           0.             4.70            0.0           14.40              IS7
PUBUCA
PARTICULAR        23.60        11.2          21            *390            6.9            41.40             0.
COMUNIDAD        23.40         9.23           0.0           19.60           0.2            2.10              0.7
IOTROS             6.00        3.23           3.81           2.0            15.             2S0               0.0
FUENTE    ENCUESTA BENEFICiAOS EVALWACION PDIC.



- 38 -
Appendix B
Translated from Spanish
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR
A. Comments of the National Planning Department
The report presents a general appreciation of Phase III of Fondo DRI (RDIP) with
an objective evaluation by the Bank of the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the
program's planning and implementation. Among various aspects, the Bank's report
emphasizes the negative impact of factors such as Decree 2132 and introduction of the
National Cofinancing System (NCS), the lack of an adequate system of monitoring and
evaluation, partial achievements in promoting community participation, and uncertainty
about the sustainability of Fondo DRI as an institution. In relation to these specific
aspects of the report, the Unit of Agricultural Development of the National Planning
Department would like to make comments (see below) in order to complement the
conclusions presented in the Bank's report.
Introduction of the NCS and Decree 2132. To further expand on several
observations made in the report about the decentralization process and two of its most
important instruments--Decree 2132 and the NCS--it is necessary to remember that the
design and implementation of the RDIP was done in the context of a profound change in
the political structure of the Colombian State. The development of the new Constitution
generated drastic changes in the institutional structure of the State, and in relationships
and attributions of the State and Civil Society and between different levels of government.
Consequently, this was a period of rapid evolution in the structure of the State which
contributed to the deepening of democracy. This was obviously disruptive not only for
the RDIP, but for all programs designed to support rural communities, and, more
generally disruptive for the central and regional government institutions.
As part of this process of change, the responsibility for rural development was for
the most part transferred to municipalities on the basis of laws such as Law 101 on
agriculture-livestock development, Law 100 which created the Social Security System,
and Law 3 which created the Sistema Nacional de Vivienda de Interes Social (National
System of Social Interest Housing). As part of the change, the mechanism for access to
public resources was based on demand and the free competition of public institutions,
NGOs, peasant (campesino) organizations and others for implementation; the use of these
funds would be under the supervision of citizens (e.g., las veedurias ciudadanas). It
should be emphasized that the role of the central government evolved into one of
accompanying and assisting the regional, provincial and local levels of government.
Decree 2132 and the NCS enabled a transformation in the traditional dynamic of
allocating public resources, by making the decentralization process more agile permitting
the appearance of new actors through mechanisms like citizen participation (involvement
in identification and implementation of projects, and supervision of the utilization of public



- 39 -
resources). Likewise, Decree 2132 and the NCS promoted the strengthening of the
institutional structure in the regions by giving more decision-making power to
municipalities, departments and by reinstating and strengthening the role of the province
and region.
These changes supported among other aspects an increase in the effectiveness in
the use of the State's resources and an increase in the capture and contribution of these
resources by municipalities. This is reflected in the US$ 297.6 million contribution to the
RDIP made by municipal governments, communities and other actors for the cofinancing
of rural development projects.
Sustainability of the RDIP and Fondo DRI. We share the report's view
concerning the low sustainability of the RDIP as a project, given that the original strategy
and design required a highly flexible program which responded to the different and thus
highly variable socio-economic conditions for rural development in Colombia (one factor
being the issue of competitiveness). On the other hand, the sustainability of Fondo DRI as
an institution should be analyzed in light of the institutional changes which the Colombian
State has gone through in the 1990s and the fact that currently no other major institutional
changes are foreseen. However, if such changes do arise, the focus of attention on rural
development is a State concern which is reflected in the Development Plan and, as such,
continuity and strengthening of concern for rural development should be a priority.
Community Participation and Institutional Strengthening. Concerning these
aspects, other elements not considered in the report which represent important
contributions of the RDIP should be emphasized, such as:
-  successful experiences in participatory planning and democratic management of rural
development in municipalities and distinct regions of the country (finding based on the
evaluation of Phase III by DRI);
*  improved capacity in most municipalities to formulate and present (in a timely fashion)
projects to the NCS, in this way consolidating the project "culture" and cycle;
*  preparation of new components as a result of a concept of rural development which
takes into account the gender and age perspective, ethnic minorities, and
environmental issues;
*  increase in participation of rural and urban actors in the management of public
resources which may take on a more complex form as is the case in situations where
the Municipal Councils for Rural Development (CMDR) are involved;
*  increase in the communities' knowledge of the budgeting system, the procedures for
getting access to funds, the instruments for regional and local planning, and the sector
policies;
*  existence of 700 CMDRs and work underway to support their consolidation and
strengthening as a central element of building a new institutional framework more in
accord with the characteristics of rural development in Colombia;



- 40 -
* the CMDRs are contributing to improved inter-institutional coordination through the
allocation of public resources (coming from different sources and programs) and the
articulation of urban-rural planning;
For these reasons, the RDIP has been the leader in the NCS. Through this leadership, it
has generated a high impact on the strengthening of municipal capacity and, in general, on
rural development in the municipalities under its jurisdiction.
Earmarked Budget Resources. The problem of earmarked budget resources
undoubtedly affected the NCS. However, it should be noted that this mechanism allows at
least the financing of viable, duly prepared projects.
Finally, it should be noted that the evaluation of Phase III of DRI was carried out
while the RDIP was underway. For this reason, the results should be considered
preliminary until the full impact evaluation of the RDIP is carried out either during or after
1998. Likewise, the design of a new phase of DRI should incorporate the results of the
completed evaluation and include measures to improve on the problem areas, particularly
those which will allow a better response to the needs of urban-rural communities in accord
with the principles of sustainability, equity and community participation.
B. Comments of Fondo DRI
In accord with your request, we are pleased to submit the following comments on
the ICR.
Ref. paras. 10 and 12 of the summary and paras. 23 and 24 of the report.
We believe there is a contradiction between saying that the results of the RDIP are judged
satisfactory because it reached more beneficiaries than expected, had a higher level of
investment than expected, and achieved most of its objectives, yet rating "the performance
of Fondo DRI as deficient, though admirable under the circumstances." From our point of
view, while recognizing the problems of institutional instability during the program, the
results themselves demonstrate the level of efficacy and efficiency of Fondo DRI in
program implementation. For this reason, we consider it too harsh to state that Fondo
DRI's performance was deficient.
Ref. para. 10 of report. The report states that: "The expansion of the program to
the entire country swamped DRI's capacity to attend to this." We do not know what
substantiates this statement since the evaluation we undertook shows that Fondo DRI
implemented the program in a largely satisfactory manner. The recognition of this by the
Government and IDB resulted in the assignment to DRI of other programs such as the
Plan Pacifico, Plante and the Program for Generating Employment.



- 41 -
Appendix C
COFINANCIER'S COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) finds that the Implementation
Completion Report for the Rural Development Investment Program clearly and
accurately reflects the challenges and successes of this innovative project. The
collaboration of the IDB and the World Bank in this operation was noteworthy and stands
as an example of how the two institutions can work together effectively.
In examining the performance of this project, we observe several outstanding
issues to be addressed during the preparation of the next phase by the IDB. The report
correctly points out the significance of this project, both in terms of its approach and in
total amounts lent. However, while we do have information regarding the number of
municipalities financed under the project, we do not have a clear idea of the socio-
economic impact of the program. An effort will have to be made to prepare a more
rigorous analysis for evaluating the results of this important project.
The report recognizes the problems facing the Fondo DRI in the midst of the
changing structure of the National Cofinancing System. However, we would expect that
some of the current instability would be diminished in the next year, and subproject
approval mechanisms be streamlined so as to more effectively address needs in low-
income rural areas in a more timely manner. We concur that ex-post, rather than ex-ante
project analysis should be considered toward this end. Finally, decentralized recurrent
resources for investment maintenance continue to be an issue in insuring the
sustainability of DRI investment. The next phase of the DRI must address weaknesses in
rural municipal financial management and project execution.



I



MAP SECTION






7a'                        76                        74                         72                        70        CUBA
A,,QCACAI
C        0 l O  M  B I A                                                                                                A T-.fBb fANJ J5A
~~fIs*  (AR  IXUc    S     DE EAAI
RURAL DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM (RDIP)    /                                                   J              (CEA
Dri Municipalities 1 990-94 Incorporation                R,ohocho >        / 1                        -                 .
.  zpSono  g -SUAJI?X A/           <  .j                               CoEOM61A.<     i.> j~~ -\,,    ,
BaofroLd ~7   *.    0   /                           ,-t                                        F $               ,J1
AT
*'t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G                                   \VII E                                                                      B< E/  A E        ZIE  
I                        PLED  .-~~~~~~~~~  AZ    
Colt-go.. D   ~                                     ~o
/ APACIFIC C                                                                                     B/LI'AN
AS                                                                   OCEAN                 r L-
<~~~~~~~~)                                                                     hit:eoro  co,  ,., :,_ .
d Nn tv 0 \1                                                  .V U /  -- -  
ANAMCIE     {AAu
19F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A V E NE Z UE          NA
co,& i  <gsucR 
4  a               CAeUFFA                                           VAUPES NN T
(                  *MonUi Z             U        MA YO  ICA
.~~~~ u CCA~3 NU AL D O R                                                                                                                              -s<*; 
6I                                                                                                                 - P A" C 
CHO
> CRECiD .A  P A         Z B       R                                              A /N/C
OCEAN~~~~~YA 01                           niesPOATO FOR iXENIO SERVICES.
-       DPRTfTANfNECII
*MACO@ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~S..
E  C  U A      D  0   R
-.-INESENATK NIALPEOUIDAINGETNINES   UNI DEC 1991/                                                              j
4F    DEATMN CAPEFAIL
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KILOMETERS O    SO   100  ISO   200   550  300 
m          78>                                                   74> 78*  L2S.









IMAGING
Report No.:          16721
Type:      ICR



