Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3250-CO
(Rural Development Investment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO DE DESARROLLO RURAL INTEGRADO
Dated September 14, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3250-CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO DE DESARROLLO RURAL INTEGRADO 
(DRI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000) on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that DRI 
agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
DRI, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to DRI on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS DRI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
Page  2
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) DRI declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with the participation of the DRI Municipalities and Implementing Entities 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, construction, agricultural, environmental and road safety 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
As part of, and without limitation to, the foregoing DRI shall, for 
purposes of the execution of each subproject, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with the participating DRI Municipality and the participating Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, such agreement to contain the cofinancing arrangements and 
terms and provisions as set forth in the Operational Manual including, inter alia, 
those in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
(c)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, DRI shall not abrogate, waive, 
assign or fail to enforce the Contratos de Cofinanciacion or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Without any limitation upon the provisions of this Agreement and 
except as the Bank and DRI shall otherwise agree, DRI shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the
Implementation Program as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
(b)
DRI shall submit to the Bank for its approval standard bidding documents 
to be utilized for the procurement of works and goods under the procedures set forth 
in Part C.1 of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. DRI shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1991, furnish to the Bank a 
base line survey, satisfactory to the Bank, in the Project Area, (b) not later than 
June 30, 1995, employ, with qualifications, experience and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, consultants to assist DRI to carry out a base line survey 
additional to the one referred to in (a) above in the Project Area and an impact 
evaluation of the Project, and (c) not later than October 30, 1995, furnish to the 
Bank the base line survey and impact evaluation referred to in (b) above.
Section 2.05. DRI shall not later than September 30, 1990, employ, with 
qualifications experience, and under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, a 
consultant to assist DRI in
the coordination of the training activities to be carried out under the Project. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, such consultant shall be employed by DRI for, at 
least, a three month term in each year commencing in 1990 until 1993 inclusive.
Section 2.06. DRI shall carry out and, as applicable, cause the DRI 
Municipalities and Implementing Entities to carry out the obligations set forth in 
Page  3
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) with respect to the Project.
Section 2.07. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, DRI shall not repeal, 
amend, suspend, abrogate or fail to apply the Operational Manual or any provision 
thereof and shall not amend any
Contrato de Cofinanciacion in respect of the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Operational Manual including those in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) DRI shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement, the
Subsidiary Agreement, the Contratos de Cofinanciacion and the ICA Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Without limitation to (a) above, DRI shall, during the month of September 
of each year of Project execution, review the progress of Loan disbursements and IDB 
Loan disbursements with the Bank. Pursuant to such disbursements progress reviews, the 
Bank and DRI shall agree on any actions and measures to ensure that withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Loan be made pari-passu and at the rate of approximately 50/50 with 
the withdrawal of proceeds under IDB Loan Agreement.
(c)
DRI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by DRI of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, 
the Contratos de Cofinanciacion and the ICA Agreement.
Section 2.09. DRI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement and the ICA Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, DRI shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving such agreements or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DRI
Section 3.01. DRI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, construction, engineering, agricultural, 
financial and managerial practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. DRI shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and construction practices.
Section 3.03. DRI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DRI shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including separate records
and accounts for the Project and shall cause each DRI Municipality and Implementing 
Entity to maintain separate records and accounts in respect of the part of the Project 
in which such DRI Municipility and Implementing Entity participates.
(b)
DRI shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
Page  4
statements) and the separate 
records and accounts referred to 
in (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of DRI 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify DRI thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For DRI:
Edificio Bachue
Carrera 10 No. 27-27 Piso 11
Bogota
Colombia
Telex:
Page  5
42237
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DRI, or by DRI 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the 
Gerente General of DRI or such other person or persons as the Gerente General of DRI 
shall designate in writing, and the Gerente General of DRI shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO DE DESARROLLO RURAL INTEGRADO
By /s/ Victor Mosquesa Chaux
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of the Contratos de Cofinanciacion
1.
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity, as the case may be, shall declare 
its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall cofinance and/or execute the respective Subproject 
or Subprojects in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual and with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, managerial, technical, construction, and agricultural practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Subproject or Subprojects.
2.
Procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the 
relevant Subproject or Subprojects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
3.
(a)
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity as the case may be, shall 
carry out the obligations set forth in Section 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Subproject 
or Subprojects carried
out by such DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity.
Page  6
(b)
(i) In respect of Subprojects under Part A.8 of the Project, the 
respective DRI Municipality shall provide for the routine and periodic maintenance of 
the rural roads to be
constructed, rehabilitated or improved under the relevant Subproject, and for such 
purposes shall allocate in its budget and spend amounts in the terms and conditions 
agreed between DRI and the
Bank as set forth in the letter of even date herewith; (ii) failure by a DRI 
Municipality to comply with the provision in (b) (i) above, will preclude the 
inclusion in an Annual Operating Plan of any
Subproject under Parts A.1, A.2, A.6 and A.8 of the Project, in respect of the 
affected DRI Municipality.
4.
(a)
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity, as the case may be, shall, 
at the request of the Bank, the Borrower or DRI, exchange views with the Bank, the 
Borrower or DRI, as the case may be, with regard to progress of the Subproject or 
Subprojects carried out by such DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity, the 
performance of its obligations under the relevant Contratos de Cofinanciacion, as the 
case may be, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity, as the case may be, shall 
promptly inform the Bank, the Borrower and DRI of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by such DRI Municipality and Imple- menting 
Entity of its obligations under the relevant Contratos de Cofinanciacion, as the case 
may be.
5.
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity shall carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, 
construction, technical
and agricultural practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff.
6.
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity shall at all times operate and 
maintain its facilities, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly 
as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and agricultural practices.
7.
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity, as the case may be, shall take 
out, maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the 
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
8.
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity, as the case may be, shall 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition and 
separate records and accounts to record all resources and expenditures in respect to 
the Subproject or Subprojects in respect of which it participates.
9.
Each DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity, as the case may be, shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (8) above 
for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to DRI as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of such records and 
accounts and of their financial 
statements for such year, both as so audited; 
and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as DRI shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to DRI such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as DRI 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
 
Page  7
10.
(a)
The right of any DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be subject to suspension or termination by DRI and the 
Bank upon failure by such
DRI Municipality and Implementing Entity to perform its obligations under the 
respective Contratos de Cofinanciacion.
(b)
Without limitation to (a) above, if significant deficiencies in the 
carrying out of the Subproject or Subprojects are noted by the audit reports referred 
to in paragraph 9 above or
during the Bank's or DRI's supervision of the relevant Subprojects, DRI shall: (a) 
suspend disbursements to the affected DRI Municipality or Implementing Entity, and (b) 
condition the
resumption of disbursements, and the inclusion of any Subproject by the affected DRI 
Municipality or Implementing Entity in the Annual Operating Plan, to the assurance, by 
means of a special audit report carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank and DRI, that the deficiencies in question have been corrected by the affected 
DRI Municipality or Implementing Entity.
11.
All the provisions of the Contratos de Cofinanciacion shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions or suspension or
termination referred to in paragraph 10 above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Without limitation upon its obligations under Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, DRI shall: (a) not later than September 30 in each year during the 
execution of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank for approval, a detailed 
annual operating plan for the immediately following calendar year (the Annual 
Operating Plan), such Annual Operating Plan to be of such scope and detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request including, inter alia: (i) a list of the proposed Subprojects 
which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and (ii) a 
list of those Subprojects, in a preparatory stage, which require preinvestment studies 
such as prefeasibility, feasibility and design studies and further environmental 
impact analysis; (b) not later than September 30 in each year of the execution of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a progress report, in such 
detail and of such scope as the Bank may reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Project; (c) not later than December 31 and June 30 in each year of the execution of 
the Project, furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a summarized report 
identifying critical issues and problems resulting from the execution of the Project; 
(d) inform to the Bank, for its review and comments, any changes to each of the Annual 
Operating Plans referred to in (a) above.
2.
DRI shall not include in the Annual Operating Plans (a) Subprojects under Parts 
A.6 (a) and A.5 (b) of the Project, unless the Bank has received an evaluation, 
satisfactory to the Bank, of
inter alia, the viability of such Subprojects and the mechanisms for recovering the 
operation and maintenance costs thereof and (b) Subprojects under Part A.7 of the 
Project, with the exception of
those Subprojects approved by the Bank for financing in 1990, unless DRI has (i) 
carried out an assessment survey, satisfactory to the Bank, of the socio-economic 
needs of the rural women's groups established under the Project and (ii) based on the 
results of the survey in (i) above and the Bank's comments thereon, prepared and 
furnished to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to discontinue the 
financial assistance to those rural women's groups which are able to manage 
independently their operations.
3.
Subprojects shall be eligible for financing under the Loan if (i) such 
Subproject is included in an Annual Operating Plan approved by the Bank, (ii) the 
Subproject has been selected taking into account, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, 
the accessibility for purposes of execution and supervision of the areas where the 
Subproject is to be carried out and (iii) the Borrower is not receiving other external 
financing (including other Bank loans) for such Subprojects.
4.
DRI shall: (a) maintain staff, in number and positions satisfactory to the Bank, 
Page  8
to adequately manage and supervise the implementation of the Project; (b) without 
limitation to (a) above, maintain the following staff with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a Project Coordinator and two professionals 
to assist the Project Coordinator, (ii) two
consultants to assist in the preparation and review of Subprojects under Part A.4 of 
the Project, (iii) three economists to assist DRI to monitor the compliance by DRI 
Municipalities and Implementing Entities with the procedures and criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual, and (iv) a consultant to assist DRI in the carrying out of 
environmental assessments for the watershed
management subprojects under Part A.4 of the Project; and (c) maintain, under 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, the Monitoring System.
5.
DRI shall implement, in a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, 
(a) the action plan referred to in paragraph 2 (b) (ii) of this Schedule, (b) the 
action plan referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of the Loan Agreement, and (c) not later 
than September 30, 1992, the graduation policy and criteria referred to in Section 
3.05 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
