Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8589-ZR
STAFF APPKAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
MAY 17, 1990
Infrastructure Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES
(As of March 1, 1990)
Currency Unit =  Zaire (Z)
US$ 1.00  =  Z500
Z 1 million = US$2,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)           =    2.2 pounds (lb.)
1 meter (m)               =    3.28 feet
1 metric ton (m ton)      =    ",204 pounds (lb.)
1 square kilometer (km2) =      .386 square mile (sq. m.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDI   -   Centre de Diveloppement Integral (a NGO in Bwamanda, Equateur)
CRR   -   Commission Routiire Regionl'.e (Regional Road Committee)
DDR   -   Departement du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural
Development)
DTPAT -   Departement des Travaux Publics et de l'Amenagement du
Territoire (Ministry of Public Works)
ICB   -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA   -   International Development Association
LCB   -   Local Competitive Bidding
NGO   -   Non-Government Organization
ODR   -   Offices des Routes (Bureau of Roads)
OVD   -   Office de la Voirie et du Drainage (Drainage and Streets Bureau)
PCR   -   Project Completion Report
SNRDA -   Service National des Routes de Desserte Agricole (National
Feeder Road Service)
SDR   -   Special Drawing Rights
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
TOR   -   Terms of Reference
TS    -   Transport Surcharge (Surtaxe de Transport)
vpd   -   Vehicles per Day
SME   -   Small and Medium-Size Enterprise
SOE   -   Statement of Expenditure
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



ZAIRE                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .......  .                 ..  .......  .  i-iv
I. BACKGROUND .......... ... 1
A.    Project History  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.  Geographic and Economic Setting .                    .                  2
C. The Transport System                                  .                  2
The Transport Network  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
The Road Subsector.. . .3
Road Sector Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Financing of Road Maintenance  . . . . . . . . .  5
Main Issues in the Road Subsector  . . . . . . .  6
D.   Past Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . .  8
The Transport Sector   . . . . .              .      . ¢    ; .  8
The Agriculture Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .    . .  9
E.   Strategy for the Future and Rationale for IDA Involvement    9
Strategies in the Road and Agriculture Sectors    . .  9
Rationale for IDA Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . 10
II.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
A.    Objectives and Project Description.  . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Institutional Strengthening   . . . . . . . . . . 11
Assistance for Project's Management   . . . . . . 12
Training              ...12
Study Fund    ...14
Works on Feeder Roads    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Research and Development    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Management and Evaluation of the Project's Impact  15
Pilot Actions    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
B.   Cost and Project Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Project Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Finarncing Plan .                 .. 17
C.    Implementation and Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
D.   Disbursement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
E.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements  . . . . . 22
This report is based on the findings of (t) two missions that visited Zaire in July and
October 1989, consisting of Messrs./Mmes. J. 8audouy (mission leader, public health
specialist), E. Karp (project officer), D. Tighe (consultant, engineer) and E. Bynens
(consultant, engineer) and (ii) a mission that visited Zaire in February-March 1990,
consisting of Messrs. J.J. Raoul (mission leader), J. Bui (research assistant), A. Garaud
(consultant, highway engineer) and C. Trapman (agricultural country officer). "m'e A. de Leva
and Mr. P. Taborga assisted in preparing the report. Messrs. P. Morris, J.M. Lantran, J.
Riverson and A. Rioust de Largentaye contributed as peer reviewers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



III. BENEFITS AND RISKS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . 23
A.   Benefits and Beneficiaries   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
B.   Environmental Aspects a    . ....   ..     ......... .  23
C.   Poverty Alleviation Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
D.   Economic Rate of Return  . ...      .. . . . . .      . . . 24
E.  Risks  . . . . *.   o.  .           . .                     24
F.   Recurrent Costs Implications   ,  . .  . . . . . . . . . 25
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    . . . . . . . . . 26
ANNEXES
I Regional Breakdown of Inventoried Feeder Roads
II Work Standards for Feeder Roads
III  Summary of Pilot Actions and Attachments
IV Terms of Reference (TORs) for Work Supervision
V Summary of Works
VI  Technical Assistance and Training Program
VII  Terms of Reference (TORs) for the :.mpact Evaluation
VIII  Project Financing Plan
IX Project Management Responsibilities
X Project Implementation Schedule
XI  Progress Reporting Requirements
XII  Terms of Reference (TORs' for Permanent Feeder Roads Inventory
XIII  Economic Evaluation and Road Selection Criteria
XIV  List of Equipment Acquisitions
XV Supervision Plan
XVI  Selected Doruments and Data Available in Project File
CHART
Organization of SNRDA
MAP IBRD, No. 22294



ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers        Republic of Zaire
Beneficiaries:  National Fceder Roads Service (SNRDA) in the Ministry of
Rural Development (DDR); agro-industries,
selected NGOs and local communities
Implementinm Atencies:    SNRDA, agro-industries and NGOs
Amount:                    SDR 9.6 million (US$12.4 million)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Obiectives:
The project's objectives are to: (i) strengthen institutional
capacity for the programming, implementation, financing and
monitoring of feede, road development; (ii) test and evaluate various
methods of rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads under
different institutional and financial arrangements in selected rural
areas throughout the country; and (iii) develop a local institutional
and financial capacity to rehabilitate and maintain feeder roads and
bridges on a sustainable and replicabls basis.
Prolect Description:
The project will finance: (i) a technical assistance, study and
training program to develop the organization and management systems
necessary to maintain the national feeder road network; (ii) a four-
year program of low-cost rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder
roads under various institutional arrangements; and (iii) research
and development activities to evaluate the environmental, social,
financial and economic impact of rural road improvement in certain
zones of the project.
Institutional support will be in the form of: (i) technical
assistance to SNRDA and the Regional Road Commissions in the areas of
project coordination, accounting and financial management, and
monitoring of road works; and (ii) classroom and on-the-job training
of local staff of the executing entities and SNRDA responsible for
execution, training and supervision of the work in technical,
managerial and financial aspects.
Works under the rural road improvement program generally using labor-
intensive methods will be executed by the following entities: two



(ii)
major, semi-private cotton companies, Codenor (Haut Zaire) an! La
Cotonniere (Maniema); Centre de Developpement Integral (CDI)
Bwamanda, a multifaceted Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) in
Equateur; and small local enterprises, NGOs and collectivities (local
governmental units) in the same areas as the Pilot Extension Project
(cr. 2096-ZAI).
To monitor the environmental and socioeconomic impact of the road
works program, the project proposes to launch the first phase of a
long-term program of impact evaluation under the responsibility of
the Ministry of Rural Development, which, with the assistance of
external experts, local staff and local consultants, will carry out
periodic surveys and systematic reporting of routine data on
environmental and socioeconomic conditions in the project areas
before and after implementation of road works under the project.
Benefits:
Rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads will restore access to
populations otherwise isolated and to a number of potentially
productive agricultural communities; reduce vehicle operating costs;
provide employment in rural areas; generate increased agricultural
revenues and alleviate food security problems. The use of small-
scale local contractors will ensure greater project commitment at the
grassroots level, while staff training will strengthen local
implementation capacity for feeder road works. Appropriate financing
mechanisms will be put in place in order to promote sustainability
and replicability of feeder road maintenance on a larger scale. The
impact evaluation program will be the monitoring vehicle to alleviate
the potential negative environmental effects of feeder road
development.
Risks:
The main risks are: (i) the weak administrative and financing
capacity of the Government; (ii) the weak capabilities of the local
entities to execute feeder road works; (iii) possible delays in
payments to the executing entities; and (iv) difficulty with access
to the project areas that would delay supervision and the circulation
of information. These risks will be addressed by: (i) the technical
assistance and training program; (ii) close monitoring and evaluation
of the project and a midterm review of project implementation by
government and IDA; (iii) the limiting of local financing
requirements to SNRDA's operatitig costs and to routine maintenance
funding requirements in line with revenues from the fuel tax
surcharge; (iv) progressive start-up of works to facilitate the
monitoring and evaluation of activities and permit prompt corrective
actions; (v) close superviaion of the payment mechanism; and (vi) the
timely supply of required vehicles and equipment.



(iii)
Prolect Cost:
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.5 million
equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$10.4 million and local
costs of US$7.1 million. The detailed cost and financing plan are
found on the following table.
Project Cost Estimates 11                       (US $ million)       %
Foreign Local Total  Foreign
A - Institutional Strengthening
Technical Assistance                     1.6    0.2   1.7      90
Study Fund                               0.3    0.0   0.3    100
Training                                 0.2    1.1   1.3      15
Equipment for SNRDA                      0.4    0.0   0.4    100
Total Institutional Sttengthening        2.5    1.3   3.8      66
B - Works on Feeder Roads
Rehabilitation                           4.1    2.2   6.4      65
Bridges & Ferries                        1.1    0.7   1.8      60
Routine Maintenance Works                0.6    0.6   1.1      50
Pilot Operations                         0.1    0.5   0.6      20
Detailed Design and Supervision          0.0    0.2   0.2      63
Total Works                              5.9    4.2  10.1      58
C - Research & Development
Monitoring/Evaluation of Impact          0.0    0.2   0.2       15
Base Cost (March 1990)                         8.4    5.7  14.1       60
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                           0.8    0.6   1.4
Price                                    1.2    0.8   2.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             10.4    7.1  17.5      60
Financing Plan
IDA                8.1    4.3  12.4      71%
UNDP               1.6    1.7   3.3      19%
Government         0.7    1.1   1.8      10%
Total             10.4    7.1  17.5    100%
1/  Costs are net of taxes which are estimated at Z 0.86 billion
(US $ 1.7 million equivalent).



(iv)
Estimated IDA Disbursments
IDA Fiscal Year   FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Annual        1.2   1.0   2.1   2.7   2.5   1.8   1.0    0.1
Cumulative   1.2   2.2   4.3   7.0   9.5  11.3  12.3   12.4



ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Prolect History
1.01   Maintenance of local roads has generally been neglected since
independence to the point that most are no longer passable. The main
reasons are an inadequate policy framework which has limited economic
growth, institutional weaknesses, and poor public finance management.
Together these factors have resulted in volatility in public funding and
limited capacity to execute local road works. The deterioration of local
roads is one of the major bottlenecks in the development of agriculture and
food security in most of the country.
1.02 A number of attempts to improve the maintenance of local roads has
been made, with varying degrees of success, as summarized below:
(i)From 1982 to 1986, the central Government's recurrent budgets
included modest amounts of funds for road maintenance, which the
Regional Commissioners 11 managed with mixed results on behalf of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Staff of Bureau of
Roads (ODR), a parastatal created in 1971 under the authority of the
Ministry of Public Works (DTPAT), contracted out and supervised the
works. The system was changed in 1987 and continued as mentioned in
(iv) hereunder.
(ii)In Shaba, a sizable regional program of feeder roads maintenance was
financed at times (para. 1.18). While fairly successful, it lacked
continuity.
(iii)To meet specific transportation needs, rehabilitation and maintenance
of large sections of rural roads have been included under
agricultural projects  tun orted by the Bank and other donors (para.
1.23). After an initial period of success, these operations
generally did not result in sustainable maintenance.
(iv)In 1987, the Government decided to create a National Feeder Road
Service (SNRDA) within the newly created Ministry of Rural
Development (DDR) to undertake an ambitious emergency program of
rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads. The main objective
of this program, which was an integral part of the Structural
Adjustment Program, was food security. The emergency program got off
to a very slow start and faced a number of institutional problems
(paras. 1.10-11), but in 1989 it started showing some results.
Approximately 1,000 kilometers (km) of roads have been effectively
maintained, and the program is ongoing.
1/   In addition to the central Government, Zaire's administrative
structure consists of 11 Administrative Regions headed by Regional
Commissioners; the Regions are composed of Sub-regions that themselves are
comprised of Cities and Zones.



- 2 -
1.03 In 1988, the Government undertook a study of a larger scale feeder
road program. The study, financed by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNOP) with the Bank as executing agency and carried out by an
association of international consulting firms (Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick (UK)
and CADIC (Belgium-Zaire)), covered such aspects as institutions,
decentralized management, identification and planning, economic
justification, standards for rehabilitation and maintenance, implementation,
monitoring, and financing of feeder roads. It concluded that a national
feeder road program should be started but on a limited scale to test the
viability of institutional strengthening. It would require funding from thle
central Government and from external sources, given the extremely limited
potential for mobilization of resources at the local level. The UNDP, in
association with the International Labor Organization, is financing
technical assistance and training activities which will be complemented in
the proposed Pilot Feeder Road Project. The proposed project, largely based
on the recommendations of the above study, is designed as a first phase of a
national feeder road program which initially requires limited government
funding, but is expected to become progressively self-sustaining after
appropriate cost-recovery mechanisms have been tested.
B. Geotraphic and E:onomic Setting
1.04 Zaire is an almost land-locked country of vast proportion (2.3
million km2). Its population is located around a large equatorial rain
forest at the country's center, which is a demographic void. Three economic
axes can be identified bordering that "cuvette centrale". One runs from the
Atlantic Ocean, through the capital, Kinshasa, along a southern axis that
links up with Lumumbashi in the Copperbelt. Another begins in the Atlantic,
runs through Kinshasa, and follows a northe-n axis, defined by the Zaire
River, to Kisangani. A third is the Kivu axis, in the eastern mountains
region adjacent to Rwanda and Burundi. Out of a population of about 35
million, about 622 live in rural areas with obvious agricultural potential.
These rural areas have low agricultural yields, in part because producers
remain isolated from intermediaries, final consumers and necessary technical
advice and physical inputs. Poor farm-to-market (feeder) roads throughout
Zaire limit the mobility of both 'Labor and production and perpetuate the
geographic fragmentation of the country. Rich in mineral resources Zaire's
natural export corridors run to the east through Kenya and Tanzania, to the
south through Angola and to the west via its only seaport Matadi (see Map).
C. The Transport System
The Transport Network
1.05 Zaire's transport system is an interconnected network of rivers,
railways and roads linked at strategic points. The dominant element in the
system is the Zaire River and its tributaries, which provide some 15,000 km
of navigable waterways. This network of rivers is complemented by about
5,000 km of railways. Together they form a rail/river system for inter-
regional transport and external access. Most of the roads were built during
the colonial period to provide local access to the rail and river networks.
A few major roads, however, also provide inter-regional transport.



-3-
The Road Subscator
1.06 Zaire's road network consists of about 145,000 km of non-urban roads.
Main roads represent 58,000 km and carry 99 % of traffic (national roads:
20,700 km or 86% of traffic; main regional roads: 20,200 km or 11% of
traffic; and secondary regional roads: 17,100 km or 2% of traffic). Local-
-or feeder--roads total 87,000 km or 1% of traffic essentially because most
of them are not passable. Administration, planning, construction and
maintei.ance of national and regional roads (including bridges and ferries)
are the responsibility of ODR. Feeder roads fall under the authority of
SNRDA. In addition, there are about 7,400 km of urban roads under the
responsibility of the recently created Drainagn and Streets Bureau (OVD),
also under DTPAT.
1.07 Only about 32,000 km of the 87,000 km feeder road network have been
inventoriGd since independence. The regional breakdown of the total
network, as inventoried in a 1949 report and of what has recently been
inventoried, is shown in Annex I. Most of these roads are narrow (2.5 to
3.5 m wide), dirt tracks in poor condition, have old, decayed !-ridges, and
have very low volumes of traffic (less than five vehicles per day).
Physical improvements and regular maintenance would increase their traffic
substantially.
Road Sector Institutions
1.08 Since the creation of ODR, a major objective of the Government and
the donor community has been to develop institutions to plan, manage and
execute road construction and maintenance. By 19°6 ODR, supported by
extensive training and technical assistance, had achieved a capacity to
maintain about 45,000 km of its network of 58,000 km, mostly by force
account and to a lesser extent by subcontracting to small and medium-size
businesses (SMES), NGOs and collectivities.   By that time ODR had the
potential to manage a limited number of fe'der road activities, largely
through its civil engineers installed in some seventy administracive zones
(out of 144 in the country) for the purpose of monitoring subcontracted
(mostly labor-intensive) road maintenance and of advising local authorities
on their road-related concerns. Most important, ODR, whose staff totalled
about 8,000, had a corps of about 300 engineers and an even greater number
of technicians. However, an acute financial and management crisis in the
following two years considerably weakened the institution and its
credibility. The financial situation has now improved thanks to an overhaul
of ODR's funding mechanism, which is now based on an earmarked, ad valorem
tax on fuel instead of a specific tax on fuel (para. 1.16). ODR's
management is currently in the process of reorganizing the enterprise with a
view to increasing private sector involvement in road maintenance. This
change implies a contraction of the network to about 19,000 km, greater
reliance on subcontractors in the private sector, and a corresponding
reduction in staff.
1.09 As a separate directorate in the Ministry of Rural Development, SNRDA
has its headquarters in Kinshasa, and is represented in each region by a
coordinator and an assistant, who are higher level staff, though seldom
civil engineers. The director and technical director of SNRDA are assisted



- 4 -
by three divisions: (i) works; (ii) studies (evaluations); and (iii)
personnel (training) and administration (SNRDA's organizational chart is
appended). A corps of five civil engineer inspectors remains to be
recruited. In total, SNRDA currently has about a hundred staff, including
about ten civil engineers (four of which are posted at headquarters). At
its creation under mounting pressure to assist rural areas, SNRDA, with
assistance from ODR, was charged with implementing an emergency feeder road
prog-Am, covering about 16.000 km, financed partly by a central Government
b-'.J try allocation and partly by funds generated under an earmarked tax on
fuei (para. 1.1).  As a very young institution, SNRDA lacks experience and
has still a number of weaknesses in managing, planning and monitoring its
activities. It still has to develop a training system to address the needs
of the feeder road sunbsector. SNRDA's technical staff were supported in 1989
by a UNDP-financed technical assistant who helped In following up on field
activities and provided advice on how to resolve operational difficulzies.
A training program for SNRDA's and contractors' staff, also financed by UNDP
(with ILO as an associated agency), is expected to start in 1990. The
proposed project will assist SNRDA in overcoming itsweaknesses with
continued UNDP-financed assistance and a financial expert (paras. 2.04 and
2.07).
1.10 SNRDA experiei.ced great difficulty in the beginning of its emergency
feeder road program, especially s4nce ODR was not able to provide the
assistance it needed. One of the major problems was an ill-designed
procurement policy. Rather than contracting directly with local entities as
ODR used to do, SNRDA had to invite bids for the works. Only a few local
contractors were capable of bidding. Civil works contractors were not
always to be found in remote areas, because the small amount of work per
kilometer on feeder roads did not justify the establishment of thosa
contractors. Most of the small businesses, collectivities and NGOs,
although competent to do the job, did not want to or could not purchase the
bidding documents, understand them and fill out the forms adequately.
Consequently, the contracts went mostly to influential personalities who
were unable to do more than cash in on the advance payment. Experience
showed that direct subcontracting was genei..ally more appropriate than
bidding for feeder road works. This experience has been taken into account
in preparing the procurement arrangements for the proposed project (paras.
2.21-25).
1.11 Another difficulty was the centralized planning and programming of
the works. This proved ineffective, since, on the one h id, the central
Government had little knowledge of local road priorities, and in fact its
choices were in many instances at variance with those priorities, and, on
the other hand, the funding was too volatile to ensure smooth payment and
hence smooth implementation of the works by contractors.
1.12 After several stop-and-go phases, the Government finally decided in
mid-1989 to decentralize feeder road activities. The buJget allocations for
each Region would still be decided centrally, but the programming,
procurement, payment and monitoring of the works would be carried out under
the Regional Governor's authority, with periodic reporting to the central
le';el. Twice a year the Regional Governor would call meetings of a Regional
Road Committee (CRR) consisting of the zone commissioners (representatives
of the central government at the zone level), the regional representative of



ODR, the reg_onal coordinator of SNRDA, regional representatives of
technical ministries, local businesses and main NGOs. The regional
coordinator of SNRDA acts as the secretary of the Committee. The CRR's role
will be a consultative one as it would provide advice on the choice of roads
proposed by SNRDA. It is also expected that the CRR will be a forum where
representatives of the road users would report to the Authorities on the
effectiveness of the road program. This approach will be fully supported by
the proposed project (para. 2.19), and in addition to this a pilot, fully-
decentralized cost-recovery mechanism will also be developed (para. 2.12).
1.13 Capacity for the execution of road works is shared by: (i) ODR; (ii)
civil works contractors; (iii) SMES and NGOs, which carry out the road works
where it is vital to the pursuit of their operations; and (iv)
collectivities. Regarding feeder roads, since ODR is currently reducing its
involvement in the execution of the work on its network and aims to rely
more on the private sector, it would run counter to ODR's orientation to
participate in the execution of feeder road works, as this would likely
detract from its efficiency in carrying out its normal duties. In general,
the works are to be executed by SMEs, mostly agro-industries, NGOs and
collectivities, as mentioned in para. 1.10. Similar arrangements will be
continued under the proposed project (paras. 2.24-25).
Financint of Road Maintenance
1.14 Both ODR and the Agriculture and Rural Development Departments have
received considerable external and local financing to carry out their
activities, mainly road maintenance. The external financing has come from
various donors on a project basis. As far as the feeder road network is
concerned, the funds have gone for roads in the areas of specific rural
development projects.
1.15 Local funding comes from two main central government sources, the
proceeds of a fuel tax and the investment budget. Until 1989, ODR received
financing for road maintenance from an earmarked, specific tax on fuel,
which was collected by the petroleum companies and paid directly to ODR. In
1987, SNRDA also became a beneficiary of the earmarked tax. Up to early
1989, this mechanism posed problems: (i) high inflation resulted in a
gradual erosion of revenues as the road tax was specific and not adjusted
regularly and (ii) retail prices of petroleum products were not adequately
adjusted to cover the costs of the petroleum companies, which retaliated by
not transferring the proceeds of the road tax to ODR and SNRDA. As a
result, in 1988 ODR's activities came to a standstill, while SNRDA was
struggling to start its work program under adverse conditions. This lack of
regula- funding for ODR led IDA to suspend disbursements on the Sixth
Highways Project (Cr. 1608-ZR) until the end of 1989.
1.16  In 1989 the Government, as noted, overhauled the road tax system,
simultaneously with a major increase in the retail prices of petroleum
products to catch up with more than two years of high inflation. A new
transport surcharge (TS) was created to replace the various earmarked taxes
on fuel. The TS is now an ad valorem tax of about 55X on c.i.f. fuel import
prices, Lased on the quantities imported and payable to the customs
authority about three months after entry. The proceeds are automatically



shared among the various beneficiaries, with ODR getting 43% and SNRDA 6%,
equivalent to about US$37 million and US$5 million, respectively, in January
1990 terms. During 1989, the funding for ODR and SNRDA became progressively
more regular as the new system was introduced. By the end of 1989, IDA was
able to lift the suspension of disbursements for the Sixth Highways Project,
and ODR gradually resumed its activities (para. 1.25).
1.17 SNRDA also receives budgetary allocations from the Government's
investment budget, amounting to about US$ 3 million equivalent in 1989 and
expected to amount to about $ 2.2 million in 1990. ODR's funding through
the certral investment budget is expected to resume in 1990 at a level of
about $15 million. If the road network were in reasonably good condition,
these amounts would allow both ODR and SNRDA to carry out routine
maintenance and a substantial amount of periodic maintenance. However, the
condition of the road network is presently so bad that there is a
considerable backlog of rehabilitation that requires additional external
financial resources.
1.18 At the regional level, despite ad hoc efforts by some regions, there
is no sustainable system of funding for road maintenance. 2/ Given their
limited resources, the regions cannot cover all sectoral priorities and at
times their allocation of funds has not been consistent with higher priority
roads. This situation has caused chronic disruptions in road maintenance
and systematically increased the need for rehabilitation, which could not be
met in subsequent years.
1.19 A mechanism for funding secondary and rural road maintenance at the
Regional level will be necessary in the future. However, recent studies,
including the UNDP-financed study on feeder roads, have concluded that such
a mechanism is not feasible at present without an overall reform of local
taxation and without providing the Regions with a revenue base to cover
their basic funding requirements. Although these policy measures fall
outside the scope of the proposed project, the project will have a component
for pilot cost recovery mechanisms that would not require funding from the
Regional budget (para. 2.12).
Main Issues in the Road Subsector
1.20  To summarize, the main subsectoral issues are as follows:
(i) Since the road network comprises mostly non-engineered roads, their
maintenance poses difficult technical problems. Manual maintenance
appears to be the most appropriate technology. The proposed project
will address this technical problem through various technical
solutions (Annex II) and pilot actions (Annex III) and the subsequent
drawing of lessons for the future.
2/   Iti the Shaba Region, specific taxes on selected products such as
maize have at times been earmarked to finance road maintenance (up to
US$500,000 equivalent in 1985). A tax on maize shipped from the Region by
train was collected by the Railway Organization.



- 7 -
(ii) The institutional capacity to manage the road network is inadequate.
In the past ODR has concentrated, with good reason, on the main road
network but with mixed results (para. 1.08). ODR is being
rehabilitated under the resumption of the Sixth Highway Projact, and
urgent priorities are being addressed. It is now commonly
acknowledged that improvement of feeder roads is vital to the
development of agriculture and the supply of ur'bn markets with
locally grown food products. To this end, a significant effort
toward planning and programming of feeder road activities, better
mobilization, allocation and utilization of resources, and
supervision of works is required. The prcposed project will test
various arrangements to achieve these objectives.
(iii)The low level and unsteady flow of resources hinders the country's
capacity to rehabilitate and maintain its road network. This
situation is exacerbated in the case of feeder roads by the weak
capacity of the Regional authorities to mobilize financial resources
(para. 1.19). The situation is unlikely to improve substantially in
the short term because of the overall macroeconomic and financial
constraints facing the country. Therefore, specific external
assistance is required to initiate a sustainable system of financing
and cost recovery of feeder roads. Such cost recovery will become
feasible only when agricultural activities and farmers' revenues have
begun to rise again. The proposed project is expected to have a
demonstration effect: once the population sees tangible results
achieved under the project, it will be more motivated both to
maintain the roads and to finance their maintenance. The proposed
project will constitute the first step in developing a sustainable
road maintenance system and will explore alternative cost recovery
mechanisms (para. 2.12).
(iv) The limited capacity to execute road works also constitutes a barrier
to rapid expansion of road rehabilitation and maintenance (para.
1.13). The proposed project will utilize and develop existing
capacity, with a strong focus on the development of a sustainable
maintenance capacity (para. 2.07).
(v) Very low volumes of traffic on most of the country's road netvork
(para. 1.06), especially the feeder roads, where the volume rarely
exceeds 5 to 10 vehicles per day (vpd), pose another serious problem
in planning road works. Economic justification of such investments
requires low unit costs, which could be attained by allowing the
movement of vehicles most of the year without consideration of speed
and by reestablishing and/or maintaining road surfaces and
bridges/ferries within reasonable standards. The design of such
works should be based on criteria of road selection and general
standards for works (Annex II). Works should be carried out using
appropriate techniques, preferably labor-intensive ones, and with
appropriate equipment under the supervision of a qualified national
expert. (See the terms of reference (TOR] in Annex IV.)



D.    Past Bank Group Involvement and Lessons Learned
The Transport Sector
1.21 IDA has played an important role in the transport sector in Zaire.
Since independence it has helped finance 14 transport projectc for a total
of $430 million, including six highways projects. Two Project Performance
Audit Reports have been issued, one for the First Highways Project (1978)
and the second jointly for the Second and Third Highways Projects and for
the River Transport and First Rail/River Transport Projects (1983). 3/ The
main conclusions, confirmed by experience from more recent projects such as
the Fourth Highway Project (for which a Project Completion Report [PCR] was
issued on January 31, 1985) and the Fifth (Cr. 1290-ZR) and Sixth (Cr. 1608-
ZR) Highways Projects, are as follows. (i) The projects' scopes were
probably too ambitious. The projects' objectives were met only partly due
to the difficult environment. For example, a number of financial covenants
were not respected. (ii) Major institutional developments were initiated
such as the launching of new agencies (among which was ODR), and large
numbers of Zairian employees were trained. The audit indicated, however,
that serious problems remained with respect to the size, responsibilities
and strategies of the parastatals involved including ODR. (iii) The
importance of technical assistance is vital to the management of the
parastatals. At the same time, replacing expatriates with Zairian staff
must be pursued while ensuring the availability of adequate technical
resources for management. (iv) The institutions responsible for policy-
making and control should be strengthened in parallel with the main
transport agencies in charge of operational activities.
1.22 The impact of external assistance to the highway subsector can be
evaluated in two ways: (i) by comparing the present condition of the
subsector with a hypothetical case where no assistance was provided; and
(ii) by analyzing the efficient use of these resources. In absolute terms,
there is no doubt that the assistance has been beneficial, as without it the
economy of the country may have come to a standstill. Concerning the second
evaluation criteria, results are less favorable. The recurrent pattern has
been that, after an encouraging start, the condition of the sector always
seems to slip back to its post-independence baseline state and sometimes
even further. The results of what appeared to have been the most
significant breakthrough in the sector, achieved under the Fifth Highway
Project and its continuation under the Sixth, have by now been largely lost
as a result of the financial and managerial crisis of 1987-89, which brought
ODR's activity to a standstill. Overall, despite the large volumes of donor
assistance received over the last 20 years, the road subsector has not been
able tc provide an adequate level of service.
3/ Project Performance Audit Reports No. 2108 and 4738.



-9-
The Agriculture Sector
1.23 In the agriculture sector, IDA is shifting the emphasis from
production targets to farmer incomes. In the past, IDA-financed projects,
designed primarily to achieve specific commodity production targets, yielded
generally disappointing and unsustainable results. On the one hand,
specific commodity projects to finance agro-industrial production of sugar,
cotton and oil palm suffered from the unstable monetary and financial
markets. On the other hand, area-based integrated rural development
projects, including feeder roads, were complex to manage, relying too
heavily on expatriates, and proved unsustainable and difficult to expand.
As for the feeder road components in particular, the rehabilitation works
were carried out by force account units using mostly heavily mechanized
techniques. Subsequent routine maintenance was never implemented because
these units were not capable of managing the labor required for these works
during project implemeLtation.  The force account units were disbanded at a
later stage.
1.24  Overall, IDA's experience in supporting highway management in Zaire
poses a challenge to the design of its projects and strategy.  Projects need
a strong institutional and policy vision, as quantitative achievements (km
of roads rehabilitated) are not sustainable in the absence of institutional
strengthening; and technical assistance has failed to develop stable and
durable institutions in the absence of a specific design of, and agreement
on the institution's organization and management system.
E.    Strategy for the Future and Rationale for IDA Involvement
Strateties in the Road and Agriculture Sectors
1.25 The Government is now formulating a five-year program for road sector
development and maintenance for the 1992-96 period. It will have the
following main objectives:
(i)  Rehabilitation and maintenance of priority highway links, based on
economic standards and as identified in a highway master plan;
(ii) Rehabilitation and maintenance of secondary roads and feeder roads
focussing on agriculture products for both food and exports and
consistent with the domestic and external resource availability; and
(iii)Development of transport sector capabilities, inclusive of the
private industry f-r constructing and maintaining highways.
This medium-term program is to be preceded by a short-term recovery
program for 1990-91 on the basis of which lending under the SIxth Highway
Project has been resumed. This short-term recovery program has the
following objectives:



- 10 -
(i) Reopening to traffic and minimal maintenance of a restricted number
of highway links vital to the economy of the country at large and to
that of its regions;
(ii) Prevention of further deterioration of the paved network and of
bridges.
(iii)Minimal rehabilitation and maintenance of those feeder roads most
important to marketing agricultural production and serving rural
communities.
1.26 In the agriculture sector, the strategy as expounded in the Sector
Memorandum (Report No. 7356-ZR, September 26, 1988) is designed to increase
agricultural output throughout the country by improving technology transfer
(resulting from more efficient extension and research).   Four main projects
have been or are being launched according to this strategy: (i) the Seeds
Project (Cr. 1609-ZR), which is developing a national network of privately-
managed seed farms; (ii) the Pilot Extension Project, which will set the
stage for a larger follow-up Extension Project; (iii) a National Research
Project, under preparation; and (iv) a Natural Resources Conservation
Project, also under preparation.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.27 In line with its past and existing extensive commitments in the
transport and agriculture sectors, IDA intends to suppoct the Government in
rehabilitating the basic feeder roads infrastructure and in setting up
maintenance institutions and financing mechanisms to ensure its
sustainability. For increased agriculture output to translate into rural
incomes, farmers need better access to markets, including rural markets.
The proposed pilot project is a first step in this direction, aiming at
maximizing the benefits of past efforts in both sectors. It intends to
initiate this complex task in an innovative and investigative approach with
regards to the use of labor-intensive techniques, reliance on existing local
institutions that are directly affected by feeder roads but do not
specialize in road rehabilitation and maintenance as executing entities,
experimentation with different cost-recovery methods, and the development of
an on-site evaluation mechanism to measure and monitor the project impact.
In light of this, IDA recommends that this project, like the agriculture
extension project, be considered a pilot operation, whose lessons will serve
as the basis for future replicability on a larger scale.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
A.    Obiectives and Project Description
Objectives
2.01 The general objective of the project is to strengthen Zaire's
institutional capacity to maintain and rehabilitate feeder roads. The
project will test a system of organization and management and train
personnel to implement the system. The system will be applied in pilot
areas, on a total network of 1,700 km, to test its institutional and
financial replicability on a larger scale. The project will include the
following components: (i) institutional strengthening including training
and a study fund; (ii) feeder road works; and (iii) research-and-development
activities. A mid-term review by Government and IDA will serve to follow
progress, make corrections during implementation as needed and draw lessons
on replicability and sustainability.
As a result, the project will identify:
(v) the most efficient institutional and financial arrangements for
financing and managing feeder roads;
(vi) the technical requirements for the roads to meet future traffic
needs and minimize negative environmental impacts;
(vii)the socioeconomic factors having the greatest influence on the
successful implementation of low-cost rural roads; and
(viii)the most adequate methodology for identifying, evaluating, executing
and monitoring rural roads activities.
Project Description
2.02 The project has selected pilot areas representing a spectrum of areas
(zones), taking into account the existence of a local capacity to execute
the works. Out of the 21 administrative zones which would benefit from
pilot operations in eight regions, fifteen were chosen to coincide wjith
areas covered by the Pilot Extension Project (Cr. 2096-ZR) approved by the
Board on February 27, 1990 (around Kikwit, Gemena, Bumba, Kabinda and
Kongolo). Six other pilot areas were retained because of rural development
activities and the presence of worthy executing entities (cotton and rice
companies). Pilot areas are shown on the appended map.
Institutional Strenathenini
2.03 In each pilot area, the project will strengthen the capacity of SNRDA
and the CRRs to implement the project as well as to train SNRDA staff and
the staff of the SMEs, NGOs and collectivities that will be involved in the



- 12 -
project. Office des Routes has agreed to transfer civil engineers to SNRDA
in the pilot zones to prepare work programs and supervise their execution
(see Annex IV) (para. 4.01(b)). These engineers will develop technical
evaluation documents recommending a program of road works in their zones,
including the sequence of execution phases. Assisted by the national
inspectors of SNRDA, the regional coordinators of SNRDA will review the
documents to ensure consistency within the region, and will submit priority
recommendations to the Regional Roads Commission, within a consolidated
regional work program.  The regional work program will provide a summary
estimate of costs and a disbursement schedule, from which fund transfer
requests to replenish a regional project account will be addressed to
SNRDA's headquarters (see Annex IX). The technical assistance, training and
study fund needed under the project to make this scheme effective are
summarized hereunder and detailed in Annex VI.
Assistance for Prolect Man#Aem,nt
2.04 The project will assist SNRDA in carrying out its enlarged activities
as a result of the project through the provision of the following expertise:
(i) project coordination (one senior expert for 24 months and one junior
expert for 48 months); (ii) financial management (one expert for 48 months);
and (iii) programming, control and monitoring of works (two experts for 48
months each). In addition to these permanent experts, SNRDA will also have
recourse to short-term experts under fixed-term contracts to assist in
specific areas, such as on-site work supervision (10 man-months of
engineering expertise). As shown in Annex VI, the project will allow a
large number of temporary junior staff, recruited from the University to
acquire practical experience. In addition to this, the project will provide
for office equipment and vehicles for SNRDA.
2.05 The project coordinator will be an experienced engineer who would
review and develop: (i) procedure of the SNRDA and CCR, including the
formats of various documents, model contracts, bill of quantities, payment
orders, technical specifications, etc.); and (ii) time management,
supervision and recycling systems for the instructors and other travelling
personnel (inspectors, regional coordinators and their assistants, zone
engineers). The financial analyst would review and develop financial
management and accounting systems and program these systems, including
computerizing expenditures under contracts.
Training
2.06 The training will entail a two-level process: an external expert
will train Zairian staff, who will in turn train staff involved in project
execution during site visits. The training program will include (i)
technical, (ii) management, and (iii) financial training and is summarized
hereunder.
(i) Technical training. SNRDA will organize field seminars to train the
field personnel of tne Government and executing entities in the
technical aspects of road rehabilitation and maintenance, including



- 13 -
technical interventions to protect the environment. Technical
training will include management methodologies (to organize workers
and the use of equipment) as well as appropriate technologies. Under
the project, SNRDA will develop an illustrated training manual
including technical specifications ("fiches techniques" - examples
are shown in Annex II) and maintenance instructions ("manuel
d'entretien"). Available premises, such as those of ODR and of CDI
Bwamanda will serve to house the seminars near the work sites,
allowing for field trips. Preparation and implementation of pilot
actions (para. 2.11) will also serve to draw lessons for future
activities.
(ii) Management training. Management training will provide the staff with
a thorough understanding of the role and responsibilities of each
line actor in SNRDA, from the front-line (instructors and zone
engineers), to the programming and administrative back-up services at
the regional and capital headquarters. Job descriptions will include
timetables to ensure the rational use of each employee's time,
territorial responsibilites (based on the size of the road network
under each employee's supervision), and supervision arrangements. As
appropriate, management training will be provided to executing
entities to improve the effectiveness of managing their field staff.
A management manual will be developed under the project.
(iii)Financial training. The SNRDA staff will receive training in
financial management and accounting systems, based on the systems to
be reviewed, developed and computerized under the project. This
aspect of training will include the elements of contracting related
to: cost estimates, disbursement schedules, accounting and payments.
As necessary, training in financial management and accounting syste-ms
will also be offered to executing entities.
2.07 As the project implementation progresses, training will focus on weak
areas identified in the progress reports (para. 2.33) through the project
monitoring by SNRDA, the CRRs and Regional Authorities and/or the executing
entities. Moreover, training objectives will be reassessed during the mid-
term review (para. 2.01 and 4.01 - (g)).
2.08 To address these objectives, the project will provide technical
assistance, training facilities and equipment. The UNDP-financed and ILO-
provided technical assistance will include: a senior training coordinator
(48 man-months) and two junior engineers to assist the training coordinator
(48 months each). The SNRDA will recruit 15 local instructors to provide
on-site training to the staff of the executing entities (48 months each).
In addition, the project will hire local junior engineers or students in
their final academic year to assist in organizing, implementing and
monitoring the pilot actions. This will offer them the opportunity to gain
valuable on-the-job training. The project will also provide for travel and
subsistence to the training staff, as well as training equipment and
supplies.



- 14 -
Study Fund
2.09 In addition to these consultants services, the project will also
provide for a study fund to finance technical design studies under contract
for the more complex works and the services of technical experts (10-man-
months) to evaluate and monitor the pilot actions and the overall project
implementation.
Works on Feeder Roads
2.10 The proposed four-year program of road works (standards are shown in
Annex II) will include the following (see Annex V for further details):
(i) feeder roads within the areas of two cotton companies, including:
rehabilitation of about 70 km with lightly mechanized techniques and
grading of 720 km, repair and/or reconstruction of about 180 bridges
and culverts, replacement of about 3 ferries, and labor-intensive
routine maintenance of about 2,530 km;
(ii) feeder roads within the areas of Centre de Developpement Integral
(CDI) Bwamanda, a NGO in the Equateur Region, to include mechanized
rehabilitation of 90 km, grading of 300 km, and labor-intensive
routine maintenance (including spot improvement) of about 1,260 km;
and
(iii)feeder roads in the areas covered by the Pilot Extension Project and
other agriculture development projects, to include low-cost
rehabilftation of about 135 km with light mechanized brigades and
grading of 365 km, repair and reconstruction of about 260 bridges,
and labor-intensive maintenance of about 3,600 km.
2.11 Specific pilot actions to alleviate the potential negative impact on
the environment and to test rehabilitation and maintenance methods for roads
and bridges--as defined in Annex III--will be carried out in some zones of
the project.
2.12 The works will be carried out using labor-intensive methods whenever
feasible under three different types of institutional arrangements. The
cotton areas component (para. 2.10 (i)) and the pilot actions on bridges
(para. 2.11) will use two major semi-private regional cotton companies,
Codenor and La Cotonniere, 3/ that have a lengthy experience in carrying
out road maintenance. The CDI componant (para. 2.10 (ii)) as well as most
of the pilot actions (para. 2.11) will use the NGO, CDI Bwamanda, which has
a good record on road reh_bilitation and maintenance. The third component
(called from now on SMEs component - para. 2-10 (iii)) will rely essentially
3/   Codenor and La Cotonniere used to collect cotton crops and provide
farmers with technical advice and inputs but have diversified their
activities to purchase all kinds of agricultural production.



- 15 -
on smaller agro-industries, SMEs, NGOs (mostly religious missions) and
collectivities that have acquired a technical capability in road maintenance
andjor have shown a strong interest in road activities. These regional
companies, NGOs, SMEs and collectivities, which are also expected to
maintain the roads in the future, will execute the road rehabilitatiot. works
under contracts with SNRDA (para. 2.25). To ensure sustainability in
financing future maintenance, pilot cost recovery measures, such as the
collection of tolls from road users by executing entities, 4/ will be
initiated whenever possible. These decentralized cost recovery measures
will be implemented progressively when the demonstration is made to road
users and the population that the road improvement is bearing fruit (para
1.20 (iii)). Their gradual implementation will be made after appropriate
consultation with Regional Authorities and executing entities (para 4.01
(d)).   The works will in all cases be designed and supervised on site by
technical staff from SNRDA and ODR, who will themselves be assisted by a few
external experts of SNRDA (para. 2.k3 - 2.04). In order to strengthen the
decentralization mechanisms for feeder road management which the Government
has begun implementing (para. 1.12), programming and monitoring works will
also involve the Regionali Authorities and the Regional Road Committees
(Annex IX).
Research and Development
Monitoring and Evaluation of the Proiect's Impact
2.13 One essential aspect of the proposed project is the monitoring of its
impact on environmental, social and economic conditions, agricultural
activities and traffic volumes in the areas concerned. This evaluation will
allow the drawing of lessons, first, for the mid-term review of the project
(para. 2.01), and later, for future actions in this sector. To that effect,
the project will provide for the first plase of a long-term program of
monitoring and evaluation of the effects of rural road improvement. This
task will be the responsibility of DDR, with assistance from academics and
external consultants funded under the project. Specifically, this effort
will entail: (i) surveys ex-ante and ex-post by external and local experts;
(ii) systematic reporting of selected data by project staff and/or local
consultants in a format to be prepared by the expert in charge of the ex-
ante survey; and (iii) data processing of the impact evaluation will be
subcontracted to the local university. An outline of the TORs for this set
of actions is given in Annex VII.
2.14 The project will cover the costs of subcontracting to consultants,
the above surveys and the evaluation of the impact. These will require the
services of: (i) a socioeconomist and an environment expert during short-
term missions (9 man-months); (ii) a socioeconomic university researcher (30
man-months); and (iii) junior engineers, researchers or students in their
final academic years (144 man-months of local staff). The equipment required
4/   Tolls on certain roads exist already in some parts of the country.
The authorities will provide a legal basis to the system envisaged.



- 16 -
for these tasks, iicluding office and data processing equipment, will be
provided by the project. (See Annex VII).
Pilot Actions
2.15 As mentioned under the feeder road works component (para. 2.11) pilot
actions will also be undertaken in the proposed project that will be an
integral part of the research and development component of the project.
B.    Cost and Proiect Financing
Project Cost
2.16 The total project cost, net of taxes and duties but including
contingencies, is estimated at US$17.5 million equivalent, with a foreign
component of US$10.4 million (59%) and local costs of US$7.1 million (41%).
Taxes are estimated at US$ 1.7 million. The base costs are expressed in
March 1990 prices. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to the
base costs. The price contingencies are based on recent estimates of
international inflation of 4.9% from 1990 onwards. This rate has also been
used for local inflation to reflect increases, expressed in US dollars, in
local costs in Zaire. The project costs can be summarized as follows:



- 17 -
Table 2.1
Proiect Cost Estimates
I(AIRE ti  lIion       }          (us*i llion)             Financing
Foreign Loc.l Total Foreign total  Foreign Local Total For.igntotal  DA   C.E. LWP
A.  astitutional Strengthening
1. Technical Aaai-tance            0.78  0.09 0.87    CO         7     1.6   0.2   1.7    90  lOS  0 5             1.2
2 Study Fund                       0.16   0.00 0.18   100        1    0.a   0.0   0.3   100   2S11 03
3. Training                        0.10  0.65  0.65    1S        a    0.2   1.1   1.3    15   7n             0.1  1.2
4. Equipment for S&RA              0.20  0.00 0.20   100         2    0.4   0.0  0.4   100   21   0.4
Total Institutional Strengthening        1.24   0.64  1.66    s6            2.5   1.8  3.6    6G            1.2  0.1  2.4
8. Works on Feeder Road,
1. Cotton Area. Component
Rehabilitation                  0.6B  0.37  1.05    6S        a     1.4   0.7  2.1    65  122   2.1
Bridge, A Forries               0.17  0.12  0.29    60        2    0.3   0.2  0.6    60  3a  0.6
Routine Maintenance Works       0.13  0.13  0.26    s0        2    0.3   0.  0.5        60   31          0.5
Pilot Actions                   0.03  0.13 0 16       20      1    0.a    0.3  0.3    20   21   0.8
ODtai led Deaign 4 Supervision    0.00  0.03 0.03      0      0     0.0   0.1  0.1        0   O0          0.1
Total Component                     1.01  0.77  1.78    S7      14    2.0   1.5  3.6    57  201   3.0  0.6  0.0
2. COI Component
Rehabilitation                  0.94  0.51  1.25    75       10     1.9   0.6  2.5    75   141   2.5
Routine Maintenance Works       0.03  0.03 0.06    SO         0    0.1   0.1  0.1    s0   11              0.1
Pilot Actions                   0.03  0.10 0.13    20         1    0.1   0.2  0.3    20    11  0.3
Detailcd Design A Supervision    0.00  0.04 0.04       0      0    0.0   0.1  0.1         0    01         0.1
Total Componen-                     0.99  0.48  1.47    67    12    2.0    1.0  2.9    67  17S  2.8  0.2  0.0
3. SIlEe Component
Rehabilitation                  0.45  0.46  0.89      60      7    0.9   0.9   1.H    50   10   1.8
Bridges & Frrier                 0.37  0.25  0.62    60       S    0.7   0.   1.2    60   71   1.2
Routine Maintenance Works       0.15   0.13  0.25    s0       2     0.a   0.3   0.5    so   31            0.5
Detailed Design I Supervision    0.00  0.03 0.03       0      0    0.0   0.1  0.1         0    0         0.1
Total Coeponent                    0.94  0.65  1.79    S3       14     1.9   1.7  3.6    53  20S   3.0  0.6  0.0
Total Works on Feeder Roada             2.95   2.10  5.06    58    39    5.9    4.2  10.1    s6  5S6   6.8   1.3  0.0
C. Research and Davelopment
Monitoring/Evaluation of Impact    0.02  0.10 0.12    15         1    0.0   0.2  0.2    is   1S                    0.2
TOTAL BASE COSTS                        4.20  2.84 7.04    60    65    8.4   6.7  14.1    60  8OS 10.0  1.5  2.6
Conti ngenci as
Physical (101)                     0.42  0.28 0.70               6    0.8   0.8  1.4              aS   1.0  0.1   0.3
Price                              3.01  2.03  5.04             39     1.2   0.8  2.0            111   1.4  0.2  0.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     7.63   5.15 12.79           100 | 10.4   7:.  17.5           100S  12.4  1.8  3.3
Financinz Plan
2.17 The plan for financing the project costs, excluding taxes and duties, is as
follows:



- 18 -
Z bil.        US$ mil.         Z
IDA                 6.2            12.4           71
UNDP                 1.7            3.3           19
Government           0.9            1.8           10
TOTAL                8.8           17.5          10O
2.18 The proposed IDA credit of US$12.4 million will finance: road
rehabilitation and repairs to bridges and ferries (including the cost of works
under contract and the supply of equipment, hand tools and materials needed to
execute these contracts); works and supplies for the pilot actions; vehicles and
office equipment for SNRDA; part of the technical assistance (48 man-months of
the project accountant in charge of financial management); and under the study
fund: technical design studiec and consultants services for project monitoring
and evaluation (10 man-month). UNDP has agreed in principle to provide a US$3.3
million grant for the training and post-evaluation programs and the bulk of
technical assistance including services from students (paras. 2.04, 2.08 and
2.14), for which ILO will be the executing agency. The Government will finance
US$1.7 million representing only 11% of the total TS revenues earmarked for
SNRDA. Over the past year, SNRDA has received these funds as scheduled, and it
!s assumed that this trend will continue (para. 1.16-17). The Government
contribution will cover (a) the cost of the routine road maintenance works and
(b) the staff and operating costs of the field supervision by SNRDA and ODR. The
local resources to be mobilizec under the pilot cost recovery mechanism (para.
2.12) have not been evaluated. They will release more Government funds for road
rehabilitation activities. (A detailed financing plan is shown in Annex VIII.)
C.   Implementation and Procurement
2.19 The Government will implement the project through DDR, with SNRDA as the
executing agency. SNRDA will be responsible for general project coordination.
SNRDA's inspectors and ODR's zone engineers will prepare the detailed work
designs and supervise execution of the works. Work execution will all be done by
contract (para. 2.12) so as to contribute to the sustainability of the capacity
to execute works to be utilized by the project. Work programming and monitoring
will involve the Regional authorities and Regional Road Committees, which are
already participating in the programming of main and rural road activities (para.
1.12). The CRR will have the possibility to draw the Government and IDA's
attention to weaknesses in the project implementation (para. 4.01(d)) and to
pinpoint specific issues for the annual audit, supervision missions and/or the
mid-term review (para. 4.01 (g)). (The responsibilities for contract
preparation, documentation of payments for works completed and payment procedures
(which are of paramount importance), and detailed functions and responsibilities
for managing the project are detailed in Annex IX.)
2.20 The expected implementation schedule for the major activities of each
project component is shown in Annex X. Execution of the works will cover a five-
year period starting July 1991. Technical assistance for project management and
for training will be provided for four years starting January 1991. The project
is expected to be completed by June 1997.



- 19 -
2.21 The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2.2
Table 2.2
Procurement Arrantements
(USS ei I lion) 1/
Project Elwent       ICa      LCD   Other         Totaf
Civil Works                   2.0     8.4         10.4
(I.2)   (7.8)        (9.2)
Supervision of Works                  0.2          0.2
Vehicle., Equipment  2.0     0.4                   2.4
A Supplies           (2.0)   (0.2)                (2.2)
Consultant Services                   2.6          2.6
Including Studies                    (1.0)        (1.0)
Training I Impact                     1.9          1.9
Total                2.0      2.4    13.1         17.5
(2.0)   (2.1)    (.8a)      (12.4)
Pi The figures in parentheses are ttij amounts financed by IDA.
2.22 International competitive bidding (ICB) is inappropriate for the civil
works because they are scattered in remote areas and in general are small on a
per km basis. A foreign contractor would need to establish a logistical
organization over a vast region at a cost that would be disproportionate to the
cost of the works. As an example, access from any major point of entry into the
country to most of the project zones by river, rail or road would take from one
to three weeks.
2.23 Traditionally in Zaire, rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder road works
have generally best been executed by small firms, NGOs and collectivities and,
where they existed, by larger agro-industries rather than by force account
(paras. 1.08 and 1.13). Moreover, development of sustainable capacities for
feeder road maintenance ct the grassroots level, a major objective of the
proposed project, is better ensured by the early involvement of the entities in
charge of maintenance in road rehabilitation and spot improvement.
2.24 There are few local formal contractors in most of the rural areas covered
by the project capable of participating in a bidding process. Because of their
inexperience with bidding procedures (para. 1.10), a traditional, systematic
bidding process for the works would eliminate most of small businesses,
collectivities and NGOs, even though most are fit to execute the works and
subsequent maintenance. Recourse to local competitive bidding (LCB) will be used
when there is potential competition between several entities--including formal
contractors--capable of executing the works on a given section of road or bridge
or a group of road sections. This process is anticipated for works aggregating
to about US $2.0 million. LCB procedures will include local advertising, public
opening of bids, specific criteria for evaluating the bids and award to the



- 20 -
lowest bidder. LrB documents would be reviewed by IDA before its release to
bidders.
2.25 Works including road and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance works and
replacement of ferries in the cotton areas and in CDI's and SME's areas
aggregating to about US$ 8.4 million are located in remote areas where
competition between two or more contractors would not be feasible and therefore
it will not be possible to follow LCB rules. These works will be divided on a
geographical basis into about 25 contracts estimated at the average of US$
340,000. No individual contract is likely to exceed US$ 1.5 million fox lio!ks
over the four-year duration of the project.  The design of these contracts will
be done by a consultant who will establish a schedule of price to be t-evlewed by
IDA. He will also draft a simplified version of contract documents which will
include suitable guarantees in the form of bank guarantees valid until the
expiration of the warranty period. Bids will be solicited whenever possible from
potential executing entities, such as cotton companies, CDI Bwamanda, SMEs, small
NGOs and collectivities located in the areas which have the capacity to execute
such work and are willing to provide the necessary security. Where such bidding
is not feasible because of insufficient competition or does not produce
acceptable results, negotiated contracts would be permitted on the basis of the
specified schedule of price. Payments to the executing entiUtes will be made
monthly on the basis of progress of work. Any nominal advance for mobilization
would be secured by unconditional bank guaranties valid until after the work has
been completed or advance is recovered for progress payments. The award
procedure for all contracts exceeding the price review threshold will be
monitored by IDA. A detailed reporting and monitoring system (Annex XI) will be
put in place to monLtor execution of works and payments.
2.26 Vehicle, spare parts and supplies for SNRDA will be grouped into suitable
lots of $50,000 or more and procured through ICB. New equipment such as
vehicles, tractors, compactors and mini-dumpers needed by the executing entities
for rehabilitation works will be procured through ICB and leased by SNRDA to the
contractors in case investigations indicate that the type of executing entity
discussed in para. 2.25 do not have all the necessary equipment and solicit SNRDA
to provide the equipment. In such cases the depreciation costs will be
subtracted from the cost of works as billed to SNRDA by the executing entity.
Certain small value equipment and tools not suitable for grouping into lots of at
least $50,000 aggregating to a maximum of $200,000 will be procured through LCB
with a minimum of three quotations. (A detailed preliminary list of equipment to
be purchased is shown in Annex XIV.)
2.27 Procurement of IDA-financed consultant services will be subject to the 1981
Bank Group Guidelines. UNDP-financed consultant services for the technical
assistance, studies, training and impact evaluation will be subject to the
procurement rules of UNDP's executing agency.
2.28 All contracts costing more than US$50,000 will be subject to prior review
and approval by IDA.



- 21 -
D.   Disbursement
2.29 The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 9.6 million (US$12.4 million) will be
disbursed on the following basis:
(i) 100% of total expenditures for civil works carried out under contract
except for routine maintenance;
(ii) 100% of total expenditures for equipment, vehicles, spare parts*
materials and supplies; and
(iii)100% of total expenditures for technical assistance (financial expert)
and consulting services.
All disbursements will be fully documented, except for contracts costing
less than US$20,000 equivalent. These expenditures will be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for the SOEs will be
made available to IDA for review during supervision missions and to independent
auditors. In the case of prefinancing from Government funds, the reimbursement
requests should not be less than US$50,000 equivalent. To ensure prompt
availability of funds for the project, a special account will be established in
US dollars at a banking institution acceptable to IDA, with an initial deposit of
US$750,000 representing about three months of expenditures for the project, to be
made by IDA after credit effectiveness and upon receipt of a withdrawal
application. The special account will be used to pay all eligible expenditures
of the project. Requests for replenishment of the account will be submitted to
IDA each month. The mechanism for payment works to the executing entities is
explained in Annex IX.
2.30 The estimated schedule of disbursements, given in Table 2.3, is based on
the project implementation schedule and the disbursement profile of past highway
projects in the country, with appropriate revisions for the fact that all works
will be contracted out, an approach that is likely to limit delays. It also
allows for a six month delay between the end of the physical execution of the
project and the last payment to allow for processing of the final invoices.



- 22 -
Table 2.3
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Hank Croup Fiscal Year      Cumulative D.aburs.menta
and Semeter Endng /            Seter    As    fot
1990
December 31, 1990         100        G
1991
Juno so, 1991             118         9
Dec4mber Sl. 1'99         1450       12
1992
June 3C, 1992             2150       17
De:b  SI, 1992            w)50       25
1993
June 30. 1993             d250       34
Dece.ber 31, 1993         5550       46
1994
Jun. 30, 1994             6950       Ss
December 31, 1994         8250       67
1995
June 30, 1995             9450       76
December SI, 1995        10450       84
1996
June 30, 1996            11200       90
December 31, 1996        11800       95
1997
June 30, 1997            12200       98
December 31, 1997        12400       100
L/ Closing date: December S1, 1997.
E.  Accounting. Auditint and Reporting Requirements
2.31 SNRDA in Kinshasa and in the regions will maintain project accounts in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. It will record all
project revenues and expenditures, assets and liabilities. The largest executing
entities will be required to do the same. Separate accounts will be kept for
each component and will be available for inspection by IDA during project
supervision. The accounts, including the special account and SOEs, will be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditor's
report, together with a management letter and the project accounts, will be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
2.32 Every year by November 1, concurrently with the preparation of the annual
budget and after receiving inputs from the Regional Road Committees, SNRDA will
prepare and submit to IDA for approval or comment a detailed road work program
for the following year. It will take into consideration the overall performance
of each executing entity and the overall project objectives. The program and
budget for the following year will be finalized by December 31 of each year after
taking into account IDA's comments (para. 4.01 [c]). This program will describe
the type of activities and estimated output to be carried out by each executing
entity. To establish the work program on a sound basis, SNRDA will introddce a
permanent feeder road condition inventory (Annex XII).
2.33 SNRDA will report progress on implementation to IDA on a quarterly basis no
later than one month after the end of each quarter, based on the same indicators
as are to be used in preparing the work program. This quarterly report will
show: (i) targets and main achievements by major activity and explain significant
discrepancies; (ii) contract status and dates of payments made or to be made to
each executing entity and reasons for any delays; (iii) procurement status; (iv)
any difficulty that has arisen in project implementation and envisaged solutions;



- 23 -
(v) an evaluation of the technical assistants' performance; and (vi) status of
the CRR's meetings and findings, reports and/or complaints discussed during such
meetings. An annual implementation report, to be furnished to IDA by March 31
the following year, will consolidate this information and provide details on
inputs used in the execucion of the program, unit costs of the various
activities, and an assesst-nt of project impact, based on data already available.
(Detailed reporting requirements, agreed at negotiations, are shown in Annex XI
and a tentative supervisioti plan is shown in Annex XV.) A mid-term review
between Government and IDA will be held in consultat on with the Regional
Authorities and the main executing entities to revlew the project performance and
discuss any ccrrective mesures and/or project reappraisal as may be required
(para. 4.01 (g)).
2.34 The borrower will prepare a PCR in a form satisfactory to the IDA not later
than six months after the closing date.
III. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits and Beneficiaries
3.01 The main benefits of the project will be to: (i) essentially restore access
to a number of agricultural communities with underutilized potential and
otherwise isolated populations and reduce vehicle operating costs for areas which
are already accessible; (ii) alleviate poverty in rural areas through the
creation of employment and increased agricultural revenues; (iii) identify the
most appropriate institutional, technical and financial methods for further
action on feeder roads; and (iv) design appropriate solutions to alleviate the
potential negative environmental impacts of feeder road development. The
benefits will accrue to the following groups: (i) the whole range of communities
touched by the project feeder roads and producers and consumers alike will
benefit from the reduced transport costs, since freight tariffs are in practice
set by competition, and from the accessibility to markets; the cotton companies
will be able to collect the cottoa on time which will ensure better quality and
better prices; (ii) other beneficiaries are the rural unemployed and the farmers
and other road users. The project will also provide significant support for the
Pilot Extension Project. In addition, a contribution to the trade balance will
be made as the economy benefits from decreased imports of food and raw materials,
larger food supplies in urban areas and higher exports of agricultural products.
Finally, the project will contribute to the testing and evaluating of various
arrangements to ensure the development of a sustainable capacity for road
maintenance.
B.   Environmental Aspects
3.02 Improvement and rehabilitation works will follow the existing road
alignment when appropriate and will have little or no effect on current land use.
The project will have a positive impact on the environment by repairing the
deteriorating road drainage system, which has increased the risk of erosion.
Technical assistants and training staff will help in developing a local capacity



- 24 -
to review and evaluate the potential environmental impact of road works and to
design remedies, including engineering measures as a provision in the contract
documents. A summary of engineering measures to protect the environment is given
in Attachment I of Annex III.
C.   Poverty Alleviation Aspects
3.03 The project is expected to contribute to poverty alleviation in two ways:
(i) by improving road conditions and thus access to markets in the isolated rural
areas sowe of which operate pzesexLtly in total autarky, the project will havre a
beneficial impact on the rural poor through increased farmer revenues and lower
prices for inputs and consumer goods; and (ii) the works will create employment
and thus increase average incomes in low-income areas.
D.   Economic Rate of Return
3.04 The rates of return calculated for the project are only preliminary. While
the regions and areas concerned by the project are well identified, the specific
roads and the alignments to be followed will be selected during implementation of
the project following proposals by the CRR, collection of data and an ex-ante
evaluation for each site. The same data survevs will be repeated after
implementation to allow for an ex-post analysiu of each site and to draw lessons
from the experiences undertaken. Thus, the impact evaluation by DDR will be both
a necessary contrib.itor to the success and quality assurance of the project, and
the source of demonstrably successful experiences to help decide on a firm basis
the future directions which the development of feeder roads should follow in
Zaire. The economic analysis of project components evaluates producer surpluses.
It conservativtly assumes that road reopening and bridge reconstruction would
lead only to    average 30% increase in the value of agricultural production
towards the eni of the first two years of the project.  This initial increase is
to be followed by 5% annual increases thereafter as maintenance and
rehabilitation allow the intensification of the exploitation of the agricultural
potential of each area of interest. The crops and patterns of cultivation
assumed are the same as they exist today, however, relative preponderances
amongst crops have been adjusted in a manner consistent with both the improved
access to market and a revenue maximization strategy by farmers after assuring
individual food sufficiency. Under these assumptions, the economic rates of
return for the various roads range between 12% and 33%. The details of the
economic and sensitivity analyses carried out and a summary of the road selection
criteria are shown in Annex XIII.
E.   Risks
3.05 The main risks associated with the project are: (i) the weak
administrative and financial capacity of the Government; (ii) the limitations of
the executing entities for implementing the works; (iii) possible delays in
payments to the executing entities, a problem that might cause them--especially
the small ones--not to be interested in participating; and (iv) difficult access
(and logistics in general) to the project areas, creating problems for monitoring
the works and circulating information.



- 25 -
3.06 These risks, which are already well-known based on experience, will be
addressed through the: (1) close monitoring and evaluation of the project
progress and a mid-term review of project implementation and of corrective
measures that might be needed by Government and IDA (para. 4.01 (g)); (ii)
strengthening of the technical and managerial capacity of SNRDA by recourse to
(a) external experts and professional staff, including zone engineers from ODR
and junior engineers in each project zone (para. 2.04); and (b) intensive and
systematic training of all staff involved (pera. 2.06); (iii) suFppy of ecquipmea't
under leasing arrangements to the executing entities when needed (para. 2.25);
(ivj iimsation of local financing requirements essentially to SNRDA's operating
costs and routine maintenance needed after the rehabi'itation w.rks, at & levei
of resources that SNRDA should have no problem obtaining from the TS, (paras.
1.16, 2.18 and 4.01 (d)) and gradual establishment of decentralized cost
recovery mechanisms (para 2.12 and 4.01.(d)) which aim in the long term at
reducing reliance on central funding for routine maintenance activities; (v)
progressive start-up of works in the project zones so as to facilitate the
organization of control activities and the implementation of pilot cost recovery
mechanisms and allow corrective actions to be taken on time, with particular
attention to delaying the initiation of works in given zones if the resources are
not available (Annex X); and (vi) tight monitoring procedures that will alert IDA
and Government on delays in payments to the executing entities and permit timely
corrective measures (Annex XI).
F.   Recurrent Cost Implications
3.07 The recurrent annual cost resulting from the project in order to provide
for the benefits expected in the economic evaluation are estimated as follows:
(i) routine maintenance of the roads and bridges rehabilitated: $600,000
(ii) management and supervision of maintenance works by SNRDA: $80,000
(iii)depreciation of the vehicles and equipment of SNRDA for the purpose of
(ii) above: $100,000 and
(iv) cost of continued impact evaluation: $10,000
While cost item (i) above is expected to be financed under the
decentralised funding mechanisms established under the project (para 2.12), cost
item (ii), (iii) and (iv) above are expected to be financed from SNRDA's regular
budget (paras 1.16-17). They represent only a small share (about 0.2%) of SNRDA
annual operating budget and therefore their financing is not expected to cause
problems.



- 26 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION
4.01 At negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following issues:
(i) Conditions of effectiveness
(a) all _onditions precedent to the utilization by the Borrower
of the UNDP contribution (para. 2.18) have been fulfilled;
(b)  formal arrangements to be entered into by SNRDA and ODR
concerning the utilization of ODR's zone engineers and training
facilities (paras. 2.03 and 2.06);
(c) submission to and approval by IDA of the work program and budget
for the period ending Dec. 31, 1991 (para. 2.32);
(ii) During proiect implementation
(d) submission to and approval by IDA each year by November 1 of the
annual work program and budget (para. 2.32) and consultation
between DDR, Regional authorities, executing entities and IDA on
progress made and steps envisaged for the establishment of
decentralized cost recovery mechanisms (para 2.12); the budget
allocation from Central Government resources to feeder road
activities should not be less than the equivalent of $5.3 million
equivalent in January 1990 terms (para 1.16);
(e) submission to IDA of quarterly progress reports no later than one
month after the end of each quarter and annual implementation
reports no later than March 31 of the following year (para.
2.33);
(f) submission to IDA of the project accounts, auditor's report and
management letter no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (para. 2.31);
(g) the organization of a mid-term review by November 1, 1993
concurrently by IDA and Government of the project
achievements and of corrective measures that might be needed
(paras. 2.01 and 3.06);
(iii) At completion of the project
(h) preparation by the borrower of a PCR (para. 2.34).
4.02 Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit to the Government of Zaire of SDR 9.6 million (US$12.4
million), on standard IDA terms.



- 27 -
AnneX I
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
Breakdown of Feeder Roads bv Regions
---------------------------------------------------------
1949     I           1988
Region                      Inventory I          Inventory
zones    km       I             km
--------------------------------------------------------------
BANDUNDU               16     14565    I             7133
BAS-ZAIRE              10      6908    I             4204
EQUATEUR               24      9409                   1685
HAUT-ZAIRE             16     14565    j              7133
KASAI OCCIDENTAL       10      6963    I             3980
KASAI ORIENTAL         14      6254    I             4492
KIVU                   21      6254    1             2864
SHABA                  22     14878    I              n.a.
8____REGIO_________S___133______79796_____________31491______
8 REGIONS             133    79796    1             31491
--------------------------------------------------------------



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Work Standards for Feeder Roads
(Summary)
General
1.        Geometric standards for feeder roads will be adapted to :(i)
traffic conditions (vehicles types, truck loads, traffic volumes); (ii) road
environment (geomorphology, hydrology and soils); and (iii) standards of the
existing roads.
Description
2.        Road standards will be of different types (examples are given
hereafter);
(i)  normal standards  for major  feeder roads  in the  cotton area
component or for feeder roads which have a medium level of traffic
(more than l0vpd), with 4m road width and engineering structures
for a 15-ton load;
(ii) reduced standards for feeder roads with low traffic volumes (less
than lOvpd) with a 3m road width and engineering structures for a
10-ton load;
3.        Cross sections will vary in function of slopes,  sections on
embankments or in cuttings and sections in flooded areas.
4.        Engineering structures standards will be of different types, the
choice of which will depend on (i) hydrologic conditions and existing
structures and (ii) socio-economic, environment and traffic levels:
(iii) for major permanent w#ater streams : (a) engineered wood bridges or
semi-definitive wooden bridges with masonry/gabions abutments and
a wooden deck or small metallic girders with a wooden deck; or (b)
definitive, reinforced concrete bridges;
(iv) for medium permanent water streams  : (a) small rustic wooden
bridges with masonry or gabions abutments;
(v)  for small permanent streams s small wooden or concrete slabs;
(vi) for small temporary streams : small wooden bridges or slabs or
irish crossings.



- 29 -
Annex II
Pag. 2 of 4
Cross-Section Al and A2: flat ground or light slope.
Al - STUDRD NOW"
00
,  00  L    2.00           1"7                  t
£2 - STIIUND RUI?U
S. *0 00    *    L   ,0
i1,00    1.150          1."'0
--       4. 0         4 /         o'       terai
S tolti v a ou bOubrXnt
Cross-Section B1 and B2: longitudinal slopes requiring embankments.
81 - STANURD MUL
1.       _
-    6.1~~~00
L    3~~~.00           2
a           e@               4 .
06-~ pllUr I1 fUbl bfu   de wlao au powIo
B2 .         7           2
r  ~~~ -.       l     4    ,
TLLt _bauguat                        taraln
I                    uinC~~~~~~MUrel



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 4
Cross-Section Cl and C2: longitudinal slopes requiring cuttings.
terrain  Cl - S?AUMDa WOEAL
t~~~~C --  '-__
L0I~~~~~~~~1
Cgross-Section Dl and D2: transversal   slopes   requiring   cuttings   and
- t  \    aembankmeti - STQG---I.1
v                        C~~~~~~~~2 - STAMN  tDU1
l  \   _     t.5m _  }    ~LSO   _i 
\ . I'=-



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
Cross-Section El and E2: special embankments.
El - llOUA1 Spaus CAL
I     -   -   'I            e
des I                        I is 
Is rti±&iu       a~~~~~~~~~pe=a
.~~~~~~~ - uuwi uZ              o *t.iD
*fde lar,



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY of PILOT ACTIONS
General
1.        Pilot actions to lower the potential negative effects on the
environment and to test appropriate rehabilitation, maintenance and cost
recovery methods would be carried out in some specific areas of the project.
This would help in determining the most appropriate techniques for feeder
roads maintenance and rehabilitation in terms of cost, environmental impact,
geomorphological and socioeconomic situations and financing. Road signing
and transit regulation measures as described in the Attachment will also be
implemented.
Description
2.        The actions proposed will involve s
(i)       actions to improve feeder road durability in difficult sections
through consolidation of road surface, embankment protection or
protection against erosion in the slopes .nd steep grades;
(ii)      actions to promote the use of local materials and wood, where
available, for bridge and culvert repair andlor construction;
(iii)     actions to test labor-based maintenance efficiency under various
circumstances in different parts of the country and by comparing
different types of light equipment/hand tools utilized by
contractors of varying size;
(iv)      cost recovery actions to be identified with Regional Authorities
and executing entities; and
(v)       Road signing and traffic regulations measures as described in the
Attachment.
3.        Working groups would be created to monitor each type of action and
to draw lessons. They would involve SNRDA's staff, ODR zones engineers,
contractors,   consultants,  universities  and  engineering  schools  and
laboratories.



- 33 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
4.   The implementation of the pilot actions would be as follows:
(i)       Research and studies would be carried out by the universities
and/or engineering schools, laboratories and ODR engineers and the
project Technical Assistants;
(ii)      Execution would be left to the contractor with technical advice
from SNRDA's supervisors and technical assistants;
(iii)        Lessons would be drawn by the working group (para. 3);
(iv)         Technical detailed papers describing the technologies would be
prepared and published by SNRDA with assistance from the
universities;
(v)           Seminars to disseminate knowledge on these technologies would
be included in the training program (Annex VI);
(vi)        Further development of the appropriate technologies would become
part of SNRDA's work program.



- 34 -
Annex III
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Engineering Measures to Protect the Environment
General
1.        Part of the Pilot Actions are the engineering measures to alleviate
potential negative impact of feeder road on the environment.
Description
2.       Measures to protect the environment will depend upon geomorphological,
hydrological, climatological and socio-economical conditions as follows:
(i)   geometrical standards in forest zones will depend on soil conditions
(e.g. sandy soils require limited road width to avoid dessication;)
(ii)  embankments in marshes or flooded areas require special attention.
They will follow the path which best preserves marsh equilibrium and
preserves natural drainage;
(iii) feeder roads will follow existing alignments when appropriate;
(iv) road drainage structures in villages will be separated from sanitation
structures;
(v)   soil stabilisation, drainage structures and engineering measures
against erosion will be part of feeder roads rehabilitation and
maintenance;
(vi)  technical studies and standard contract for feeder road construction
and materials extraction will include appropriate meaures to protect
the environment.



- 35 -
Annex III
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Summary of Road Signing and Transit Regulation
General
1.        Measures such as road signing and traffic regulations are an
integral part of the project. They are aimed at improving road safety,
insuring a longer lifetime for the maintained roads, giving the villages
concerned by their conservation a sense of ownership of the roads, and
allowing the establishment of toll collection and/or other cost recovery
mechanisms, when needed.
Description
2.        Road signing would involve :
(i) milestones, signal posts to indicate dangerous road sections
(curves, slopes, bridges);
(ii) signal posts to indicate villages names;
(iii)devices to slow down vehicles speed before accessing bridges
3.        Traffic regulations would involve :
(iv) rain barriers at the entrance and exit of feeder roads;
(v) wooden signal posts indicating the traffic regulations decree;
(vi) barrier guards during the rainy seasons; and
(vii)establishment of toll collection and/or other cost recovery
mechanisms.
4.        Road signing elements and barriers would be constructed by local
workshops selected after LCB using local materials and -wood where
available.



- 36 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Outline TORs of the Work Supervision
General
1.        Work supervision and control will be carried out by ODR's zones
engineers and SNRDA's inspectors who will report to the regional Director of
SNRDA and Technical Director of SNRDA respectively.   (Further details on
responsibilities for project management are given in Annex IX).
Task description
2.        The zone engineers' task will consist of:
(a) participating in the preparation of work program and the selection
of roads by the Regional Road Committee (see Annex IX) accarding
to agreed selection criteria; and identifying potential executing
entities;
(b) carrying out technical evaluation of the selected feeder roads
(plans, design, work program, type of works with special attention
to the environmental issues such as erosion); preparing contract
documents according to an agreed upon format and based on unit
prices;
(c) controlling works execution; measuring quantities; preparing
payment documentation and contract amendments when needed;
(d) participating in receipt of works completed and requesting
correctives measures by contractors when needed;
(e) reporting to the Regional Road Committee and SNRDA on progress in
project implementation;
(f) participating in on-site training (Annex VI) and pilot actions
(Annex III); and
(g) collecting technical, socio-economical and costs information
required for the project reports (Annex XI) and for the post-
evaluation.
3.        The inspectors' task will consist of :
(h) monitoring the activities at the zone and region level;
(i) controlling the execution of works through spot checks;
(j) monitoring the regularity and timeliness of the payments to
contractors.



- 37 -
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Summary of Worko
Annex V
Page 1 of 8
Premier Volet - AIRE O'INFLUENCE DE CODENOR
An 1 An 2 An 3 An 4
Post.                                                   Unite   P.U./km I 1991  1992  1993  1994 iTotal    IDA  C.E.
Rehabilitation Leger.                                   km              l  10    10    10       6l  36
Remise en Form. avec Apports                            km              I  20    40    40    20 l 120
Remiss en Forme sane Apports                            km              I  30    s0    80    30 I 180
Reparation Ouvrages                                     U               l  10    10    10    10l  40
Rehabilitation Ouvrages                                 U                    8     0    12      6 I  30
Reconstruction Ouvrsg.r                                 U                    1      2     4     2 I   9
Cantonnag. Sauvegarde                                   km              i         60   170   280 I 510
Entreti-n Ameliorant                                    km                                     s 501   60
Cantonnage deos Autres Itineraires                      km                  s o0   S0   100   100    300
Rehabilitation Legere                                   USS '000  8.0001   80    80    80    40    280    280
Remis. en Form. avec Apports                            USS '000  3.000 I  60   120   120    60    360    380
Remis, en Forms sane Apports                            US3 '000  1.600 I  45    90    90    46 I 270    270
Reparation Ouvrag*s                                     USS 0-o    1.0001   10    10    10    101   40       40
Rehabilitation Ouvruges                                 US$ '000  3.000   i 18    1            18 3e90       90
Reconstruction Ouvrag.s                                 US3 '000 20.000 I  20    40    80    40 1 180    180
Contonnages                                             US3 '000  0.260 I  13    28    6s    95 I 203             203
Entretien Ameliorant                                    USS 0'0  0.500 I 0         0      0    251   25            26
Sous-Total Etudes Techniques                                            I   1       1     1     11    4       0     4
Sous-Total Surveillance et Controle                                     l   4      6      7     6S    22      0   2,
-------------------------------------------------------------------I-- - ----------------- - --I---------------
Total Travaux                                                           l 246   386   484   333 I 1448   1220   22c
Total Etudeu, Surveillance A Controle                                        6     7      9     61   28       0   2.
Experimentations pour Actions Pilotes (10X du Total des Travaux)        I        145              I 145    146
TOTAL PREMIER VOLET - CODENORD                          USs '000           251   637   492   338   1618   1386   264
Premier Volot - AIRE D'INFLUENCE DE LA COTONNIERE
An 1 An 2 An 3 An 4
Posts                                                   Unit.   P.U./km   1991  1992  1993  1994 ITotal    IDA  C.E.
-------------------------------------------------------------------- _ -  _------------------------    ----------------__-
Rehabilitation Legero                                   km              t  10    10    10       SI   36
Remise en Forme avec Apports                            km              I  30    60    6o    30  I 180
Remise en Forme sane Apports                            km              I  40    80    80    40 1 240
Reparation Ouvroges                                    U                I  16    16    20    10       60
Rehabilitation Ouvrages                                U                l  10    10    1s       6 I  40
R.nouvellement de Saco                                 U                      1   1      1           3
Contonnage Sauvegarde                                   km              l         80   230   380 I 890
Entr-tion Ame ioront                                    km                                     s 801   80
Cantonnage des Autr-s Itinersires                       ke                  s 50    S0   100   100 I 300
Rehabilitation Legere                                   USe '000  8.000     s 80    80    80    40 I 280    280
Rmis;e en Form. avec Apports                            US9 '000  3.000     90   180   180    90    640    640
Remiss on Form. sane Apports                            USS '000  1.500 I60   120   120    80 I 360    380
Reparation Ouvrageu                                     USS 'o    1.O001   1S    1S    20    10      60o    80
Rehabilitation OuvrOgeS                                 USS '000  3.000 1  30    30    46    16 I 120    120
Reconstruction Ouvrages                                 USS '0o0 30.000     30    30    30      0 I90        9o
Contonnages                                            USS '000  0.260 j  13    33    83   120 I 248              24z
Entretien Ameliorant                                   US '000  0.60J        0     0      0    401   40            4:
Soug-Total Etuder Techniques                                            j   1       1     1     1      4      0      4
Souc-Total Surve-llance *t Controls                                     l   S       8     8     S6    28      0    20
Total Travaux                                                           I 318   488   658   376 I 1738   1460   28¢
Total Etudes, Surveillance A Controle                                   I   6       9    10     61   30       0    3,
Experimentations pour Actions Pilote. (10O  du Total des Travaux)                174              I 174    174
----------------------------------------------------------------- - ---I----------I                    - - ---------------
TOTAL PREMIER VOLET - LA COTONNIERE                    US$  000         I 324   670   587   381 I 1941   1824   31e



- 38 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 6
RECAPITULATION ACTIVITE TRAVAUX & ACTIONS PILOTES
----------------------------------------------------__-------__-----------_--__----------________-----___--------
I An I An 2 An 3 An 4 1
REGION                                                   Unite             l 1991  1992  1993  1994 ITotal    IDA  C.E.
-------------------------------------------------I                                    -- - -_-- - - - - - - - - - - - --I-----------
AIRE D'INFLUENCE DE CODENORD                                               I                         I
Sous-Total Sauvegard.                                                         186   290   290   145 l 910    910
Sous-Totel Ouvragee A Sacs                                                    48    88   128    68    310    310
Sous-Total Entretien                                                       l   13    28    88   1201  228             22E
Sous-Total Etud e, Surveillance A Controli                                      5     7     9      6 l  28             2c
Experimentations pour Actions Pilotes n                                         0   146     0      01  146    145
Total                                                                     l 261   537   492   338   1618   1365  264
AIRE D'INFLUENCE DE LA COTONNIERE                                         I                          l
Sous-TotnI Sauvegard                                                      l 230   380   380   190 l 1180   1180
Sous-Total Ouvrges A Bacs                                                 l   76    76    96    261  270    270
Sous-Total Entreti-n                                                       l   13    33    83   1801  288             28a
Sous-Total Etudes, Surveillance A Controle                                 l   8      9    10      8 1  30             3;
Experimentations pour Actions Pilotes                                      I    0   174     0      01  174    174
Total                                                                      I 324   870  657   381 I 1941   1824   31e
RECAPITULATION PREMIER VOLET                                              l                          l
Sous-Total Sauvegarde                                                      I 416   670   670   336 I 2090   2090
Sous-Total OuvrOges & Bacs                                                 l  123   143   221    93 I 680    680
Sous-Total Entretien                                                           26    80   150   280    516            SIE
Sous-Total Etudes, Surveillance A Control-                                l   12    18    18    11     6               se
Experimentations pour Actions Pilotes                                     I    0   319      0      01  319    319
---------------------------------------------------------   --    I-- --------------------- --I----------------
TOTAL PREMIER VOLET                                                       l 676  1207  1069   719 I 3580   2989   671
Deuxieme Volet - AIRE D'INFLUENCE DU CDI
12-Apr-90
02:08 PM
An 1  An 2  An 3  An 4
Posts                                                    Unite   P.U./km I 1991  1992  1993  1994 ITotal   IDA  C.E.
Rehabilitation Lourde                                    km               l  30    30    30              90
Cantonnege Periodo de Carontie (12 mois)                 km               l          30    30    30 1   90
Cantonnage apres Carantie                                km                                3 30    30 1  80
Reprofilage *v-c Apports                                 km               I  80    40    40          l 140
Reprofilage sans Apports                                 km                          s 50o   60    0   IS1O
Contonnage apres Reprofilages                            km               l0   150   260 1 480
Rehabilitation Lourde                                    USS '000 18.300    5 549   549   649      0 1 1847   1647
Periode de Garantis des km Rehabilites                   USS '000  0.1401      0      4     4      4 1   13
Contonnage apres Garanti- des km Rehabilites             US8 '000  0.200 1    0       0     6      8 1   12
Reprofilage *vec Apports                                 US8 I000  2.800    188   112   112        0 I 392    392
Reprofilage sann Apports                                 USS '000  1.400       0 0   140   188  140 1 448    448
Contonnage spree Reprofilages                            US8 '000  0.220 1    0    13    33    66    101              101
Sous-Total Etudes Technique. £ Avis Techniques Specitiques                l    8      8     8      0 1   26      0    2
Sous-Total Surveillance et Controle s                                          14    15    1       831   47      0    4:
Total Trovnux                                                             l  717   818   872   206 1 2813   2487   12t
Total Etudes, Surveillance & Controle s                                       22    23    24       31   72             7
ExperimentationB pour Actions Pilotes (10% du Total des Travaux)          1         261                 201    281
TOTAL DEUXIEME VOLET                                     US$ '000         1 739  1103   898   208 1 294e   2748   19!
_-----      ---------------------------------------------------------------- --  --  -     -     -  --  - -  --  -     -   -------- --  - ----------------------------------- --  --  -     -     - 



- 39 -
Annox V
Page 8 of 6
Trololeme Volet
EQUATEUR - Zones de BUNBA - BOSOWOLO - BEFALE    Alros d'InfIuenc. do COTON-ZAIRE A TABAC-ZAIRE
Zonos do Vulgarisation du SNV             Coeff.     1.1
An 1 An 2 An 3 An 4
Post.                                               Unit.  P.U./km 1 1991  19M  1993 1994 ITotal   IDA C.E.
Rehabilitation Legere                                km                  0    6   16    SI   20
Remise on Forme avec Apports                         km             I  10   20   20   16 I  60
Entr-ti;n Ameliorant                                 km             I  10   20   20   16    6O
Cantonnage d- ce Troncons                          km              I         20   66  116 I 266
Reparacion Ouvroges                                 U               I   2    5    5    6S   17
Rehabilitation Ouvrages                             U               l   2    6    6    S I  17
R-construction Ouvrages                             U               I   1    2    2    2 I   7
------------------------------------                                ---- -------          --l --------
*Rehabilitation Loger-                               US$ '0    6 .600 1   0   28   66   28 5 110   110
*Remiso an Form. avec Apporte                        US2 '666 2.760 1  28   65   56   28 1 166   L66
*Entrotion Amellorunt                                US$ '00   0.660      6    11   11    aI   8S             33
Cantonnage do eoo Troncons                          USf '006  0.260      a 0   6   16   29    60             SC
Reparation Ouvorges                                 US$'000  1.0001    2    6    6    6l  17    17
Rehabilitation Ouvresgs                             US$ '666 8.000 I   6    15   15   15    S t1   61
Reconstruction Ouvragos                             US$ '066 20.6006     20   46   46   40 I 140   140
Total Travaux                                                           8 61  169  197  149   666   483   83
Surveiilance et Control- (31)                                       I   1    2    a    21    8                8
-- - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - -- --- - -- - -- - - - - - -        - - - - - - -------- --------   - ----
TOTAL TROISIEME VOLET - EQUATEUR                    US$ '000        1  62  161  200  161 I 674   483   91
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Troisieme Volot
KIVU
Airo d'Influence d'ENTRIACO               Coeff.    1 16
An 1 An 2 An 8 An 4
Post.                                               Units  P.U./km 1 1991  1992  1998  1994 jTotal   IDA C.E.
Rehabilitation Legere                                km                  0   16   10    6I   26
Remis; on Form* *vec Apports                         km             I  20   20   20   16    70
Entretien Ame lorant                                 km             I  25   25   25   1S    90
Cantonnage de ces Troncons                          km              l         46  100  155   3 866
Reparation Ouvrages                                 U               I   2    a    a    a8   11
Rehabilitation Ouvrsags                             U                    a 9    3    8    8 I  12
Reconstruction Ouvrsges                             U               I   2    2    2    2 I   8
*Rehabilitation Legere                               US$ '-we 6.760 I   0   58   58   29 I 144   144
aRemise on Forme avec Apports                        US2 '666  2.875 I  68   68   68   29 I 201   201
.Entretion Ametliorant                               US2 'NO   675 I  14   14   14    91   62                 S"
Cantonnage de ceo Troneons                          USM  '000 0.260      a 6    11   26   39 I  76           7E
Reparation Ouvrags                                  US$ '00   1.00  1   2    a    3    aI   11    11
Rehabilitation Ouvrages                              US2 'N0O 3.000 1   9    9    9    9    386    36
Reconstruction Ouvrag.s                             US  'N0O 20.006  1  40   40   40   40   166   166
Total Travaux                                                       I 123  193  206  167 I 679   562  127
Survoillance et Controls                                            I   4    6    6    6l  20 16
TOTAL TROISIEME VOLET - KIVU                        US$ '000        1 127  198  218  162   699   662  13;



- 40 -
Ann-x V
Page 4 of 6
Tro.vise Volst
BANDUNDU - Zones de IDIOFA, 8ULUNGU A MASI-MiANIMEA
Zones do Vulgaricstion du SNV             Coeff.        1
An 1 An 2 An 3 An 4
Poste                                                Unit.   P.U./km l 1991  1992  1993  1994 ITotal   IDA C.E.
Rehabilitation Leger                                 km                   a 0    0    10   101   20
Remise en Forms av-c Apports                         km              1  10   20   20   20 I  70
Entretion AeI lorant                                 km              I  10   20   20   201   70
Contonnage do coo Troncons                           km              I         20   so   1101  190
Reparation Ouvroge                                   U                    5 6        10    10 1   30
Rehabilitation Ouvrog.s                              U               1   2    2    6        5 I  14
Reconstruction Ouvrages                              U                     1    1    1    1 I    4
oRohab;litation Leere                                 USS  000 6.000       0    0    50   60 I 100   100
#Rem  o- *n Forms avec Apports                        US3 '000 2.500 j  25   50   60   60 I 175   176
*Entrotien Ame lorant                                 USS080'  0.6001    6   10   10    101   as                3E
Cantonnage do cog Troncons                           US  '000 0.260 I   0       5   15   26 1  48             48
Reparation Ouvrages                                  US$ 'ON  1.0001    6    5    10    101   80    30
Rehabilitation Ouvroges                              USn  'MO  3.00       6    6    15   16 I  42    42
Reconstruction Ouvrages                              US$ 'MO  20.0O I  20   20   20   20 l  80    80
Total Travaux                                                        l  61    96   170  1831  610   427   83
Surveillance at Control.                                             l   1    1    3    aI    8                 E
TOTAL TROISIEUE VOLET - BANDUNDU                     US$ 'MO         l  62   97  173  186 I 617   427   9.
Troisieme Volet
KASAI OCCIDENTAL - Zon-c de UWEKA A LUIZA  , Aires d'Influence du CEDERIM    Co-ff.  1.16
Zones de Vulgarisation du SNV
An 1 An 2 An 3 An 4
Posts                                                Units  P.U./km l 1991  1992  1993  1994 ITotal    IDA C.E.
Rehobilitation Legere                                km              I   O    0    10    101   20
Remise en Forme av-c Apporta                         km              l  10   10   10   10 I  40
Entretien Ameliorant                                 km                i 10   10   10   101   40
Cxntonnag- de coo Troncons                           km              I         20   s0   70 1 140
Roparation Ouvrog-s                                  U               l       10   10   10    10t   40
Rehabilitation Ouvroges                              U               1   2    6    6    6 1  17
Reconstruction OuvressX                              U               I   2    2    2    2 I   8
*Rehabilitation Lgere                                 US$ '0M0 6.750 I   0    0    5S   68   115   115
*Remise en Form. avec Apports                         US$ 'MO  2.876 I  29   29   29   29 1 116   116
*Entrotien Am.liorant                                 USS -00  0.576       a    a    6    61   23              2 
Cantonnage do coo Troncons                           US$ '00  0.260 I   0      6   13   18 i    36            3
Reparation OuYrsg9s                                  US$ 'M   1.08I   10   10   10   101   40    40
Rohabilitation Ouvroges                              US3 'MO  3.000 1   6    15   15   15 i    61    51
Reconstruction OuvrOges                              US3 'MO 20.000 j  40   40   40   40   160   160
Total Trovaux                                                        1  91  106   170  176    6 539   481   6'
Surveillance et Controle                                                  1    2      3    31    8              t
TOTAL TROISIEME VOLET - KASAI OCCIDENTAL             US$ '000        I  92  106   172  177 l 647   481   6t
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-----------------------------------



- 41 -
Annox V
Pago 6 of 6
Troisleme Volot
NORD SHABA - Zones do KALEMIE A NYUNZU A KONGOLO                               Co ff. 1.15
Zones do Vulgartlstion du SNV
An 1 An 2 An 8 An 4
Posts                                                  Unite   P.U./km I 1991  1992  1993  1994 ITotal   IDA  C.E.
Rehabilitation Legore                                  km              I   0      S    10    10,   26
Romeso an Form. avoc Apports                           km                i 1     15    15    15 i    65
Entrotton Amel orent                                   km              1  10    1S    15    1s1   66
Contonnage do coo Troncons                             km              l         20    66    95    170
Reparation Ouvrage,                                    U                    5    10    16    10t1    5a
Rohabilitation Ouvrogos                                U               l   2      5     5      6 I  17
Reconstruction Ouvreag<                                U                     1   1      1     1 l   4
*Rehabilitation Legore                                  US$ 'son  6.760 I   8    29    58    58 I 144    144
eR.miso on Forme avec Apports                           US$ '0M   2.675 I  29    43    48    43    168    168
*Entrotien Am liornnt                                   USS '00  0.676       6     9     9      91   32 
Cantonnago do ceo Tronconc                             USS 'MO  6.260 1           5    14    24 1  48             4
Reparation Ouerages                                    US$2Sm  1.SMj 1           16    10   1is    a5       36
Rehabilitation Ouvragen                                US  'SM  a.oo  I   a    15    15    15 i    61    51
Reconstruction Ouvrages                                US$ '000 20.000     20    29    20    20 I  80       86
Total Travaux                                                              68   131   168   178    542    468   7J
Surveillance et Control-                                               l   1      2     8     a1    8              b
TOTAL TROISIEME VOLET - NORD SHABA                     US$ 'oS             So   182   171   181 I 660    468   82
Trolsiome Volot
SHABA - Zones do DILOLO, SANDOA A KAPANGA                                      Coo ff.   1.2
Aire d'Influence do COTOLU
An 1 An 2 An 8 An a
Post.                                                  Unit.  P.U./km l 1991  1992  1998  1998 ITotal   IDA  C.E.
Rehabilitation Logor.                                  km                   0     5    10    10 1  25
Romise on Fonm  av*c Apports                           km                  10    20    20    20 I  70
Entrotion AnI lorant                                   km              1  10    15    15   1i1   56
Cantonnage do coo Troncons                             km                        20   6e   195 l 185
Reparation Ouvroges                                    U                    5     7     7 z   8      27
Rohabilitation Ouvragen                                U               l   6      7     7     8 1  27
Reconstruction Ouvrageo                                U               I   1      2     2     2 1   7
*Rehabilitation Legere                                  US lw  6.oeooo I   o    8o    6o   6e 1 156    156
*Remise en Forme *vec Apports                           USS 'SMO  a.eo  I  80    60    69  6e    210    210
*Entr-tion Ame torant                                   USSSw   o.600o      6     9     9     91   33 38
Cantonnags de coo Troncons                             US8 'SO   0.260 1   0      6    1S    26      46          46
Reparation Ouvrago                                     USS -on  1.6 1    6       7     7      81  27       27
Rehabilitation Ouvragea                                US  'OM   8.000     16    21    21    24 l  81    81
Reconstruction Ouvrogoe                                USS 'ON 20.000     20    40    40    40 1 140    140
Total Travaux                                                          l  76   172   212   227    687    668 es z
Surveillonce *t Controle                                                    1     8     8      81   10            1'
TOTAL TROISIEME VOLET - SHABA                          USS 'lo w           77   17S   216   231 1698 6s      8    9i
--- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ---  ---- ---  --- -- -- -- -- --



- 42 -
Annox V
Past 6 of 6
RECAPITULATION TROISIEME VOLET
An 1 An 2 An S An 4
Posts                                               Units  P.U./km  1991  1992  1998  1994 ITotal   IDA C.E.
Rehabilitation Legere                               km                   0   26   66   60   135
Rwnise on Forms avec Apports                         km             I  70  106  106   86   3 865
Entretien Amellorant                                 km             I  76  106  106  8a s   370
Cantonnage de cao Troncons                          km                   0   146  390  660 I 1186
Reparation Ouvrages                                 U                   29   40   46   41  166
Rehabilitation Ouvrag.u                              U               I  16   27   30   31 I 104
Reconstruction Ouvr*gss                              U              I   8    16   l6   16    S8
eRehabilitation Leger*                               USS low6             0   144  338  281   763   783
*Remisa en Forme avec Apports                        US8 '600        I 198  294  294  238  1024  1024
*Entr-tion Ameliorent                                US8 *o6         1  42   69   59   481  207          6  207
Cantonnage do cot Troncons                          US8 '666             0    86   98  163 I 296        6  29E
Reparation Ouvrage                                  USS '666        1  29   40   45   46 I 166   180
Rehabilitation Ouvr*ge                               us$  66        I  48   81   90   93   3 812   312
Reconstruction Ouvrage                              USS 'W6         I 16   200  200  26 I 766   780
---------------------------------------------I                                    -- - - - - - -_-- - - - - - - - - - I----- ------ -----
Total Travaux                                                          477  864  1123  1068 I 3623  8019  504
Surveillance et Controlo                                            I   9   16   26   181   63          6   3a
TOTAL TROISIEME VOLET                               US8 'low        I 486  870 1143  1087 I 686  3019  S3E
-------------------------------------------------------------------        -------        -----------------------------------
RECAPITULATIF PROJET PILOTE
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__------------------------------------
I                                                    Unito           IAn I An 2 An 8  An 4 1        1
IVOLET                                               US8 '66  (1996)   1991  1992  1993  1994 ITotal I IDA C.E.
IPREMIER VOLET                                                       I                       I      I
ITRAVAUX DE SAUVEGARDE                                               I 416  876  670  836 I 2090 j 2069
IOUVRAGES A BACS                                                     I 123  143  221   93   58s   680
ITRAVAUX D'ENTRETIEN                                                 I  26   60  160  2801 616 51
IETUDES, SURVEILLANCE & CONTROLE                                     I  12   16   18   111   6e1              S
IACTIONS PILOTES                                                          a 6  819    6    61  8191  819
ITOTAL PREMIER VOLET                                                 | 676  1207  1069  719 j 3660  2989  671
IDEUXIEME VOLET                                                      i                       I      I
ITRAVAUX DE REUISE EN ETAT A REHABILITATION                          I 717  801  829  140 1 2487 1 2487
ITRAVAUX D'ENTRETIEN                                                 I   0    13   33   56   1011            101
ETUDES, SURVEILLANCE A CONTROLE                                      I  22   23   24    SI   721              7
IACTIONS PILOTES                                                     I   6  281    6    o1  2611  281
ITOTAL DEUXIEME VOLET                                                   739 1099  s88   198 I 2921 I 2748  171
---------------------------------------------------------- --       -     ------ ------ -----------
ITROISIEME VOLET                                                     I                       I
ITRAVAUX DE REMISE EN ETAT A REHAILITATION                           I 198  438  632  519 I 1787 1 1787
IOUVRAGES A SACS                                                     I 237  821  835  889 1 1232 1 1232
ITRAVAUX D'ENTRETIEN                                                     42   96  158  210 1 604 1           504
IETUDES, SURVEILLANCE A CONTROLE                                     I   9   16   20  1t1   638
ITOTAL TROISIEME VOLET                                               I 486  870  1148  1087 1 3586 1 8019  567
------------I--------------------------------------------- ------ ------ -----------
ITOTAL TROIS VOLETS                                                  1-1799 8178 3088  2006 1l16e6  I 8758 1311
___---------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--------------------------------__---



- 43 -                          Annex VI
Page 1 of 6
ZAIRE
Pilot Feeder Roads Proiect
SUMMARY of TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROGRAM
Oblectives
1.        The objectives of the technical assistance and training program are
to assist SNRDA in implementing the project and to train its staff and the
staff of executing entities to develop the local capacity in feeder road
management and execution of works.  This program is a complement to the
ongoing technical assistance being provided by the International Labor
Organization (ILO) and financed by UNDP.
Composition of the Team
2.        Technical assistance to SNRDA will comprise of:
(a)  a  senior  highway  engineer  with  extensive  experience  in  related
activities to assist SNRDA in coordinating, planning, budgeting,
implementing and controlling the civil works (24 man-months);
(b)  a highway engineer to assist the above expert and ensure continuity of
support to SNRDA management during the project implementation (48 man-
months);
(b)  an experienced financial management expert, to set up and operate
accounting and reporting systems, maintain project accounts and train
the local staff assigned to these tasks (48 man-months);
(c)  two junior highway engineers to control and monitor works and to train
SNRDA inspectors (2-48 man-months);
(d)  engineering  experts  for  specific  tasks  (such  as  on-site  work
supervision), to be determined in the course of project implementation
(34 man-months).
In addition to this, the project will provide, under the study fund, for
services of consultants and experts to carry out (i) technical design studies
for complex work and pilot actions (20 man-months) and (ii) evaluation and
monitoring activities (10 man-months).
3.   The experienced engineer would specifically be involved in reviewing and
developing: (i) procedures of the SNRDA and of the Regional Roads Committee,
including the formats of various documents (technical evaluation documents,
model   contracts,   bills   of  quantities,   payment   orders,   technical
specifications, periodic reporting); and (ii) time management, supervision
and recycling systems for the instructors and other travelling personnel
(inspectors, regional coordinators and their assistants, zone engineers).
The financial management expert would review and develop financial management
and accounting systems and computerize these systems, including accounting



- 44 -
Annex VI
Page 2 of 6
of expenditures under contracts.   He would also organize and supervise
training in financial management using outside services initially but
gradually ensuring in-house training skills (see para. 10).
3.         The training program will require:
(a) a highway engineer specialized in training, with extensive experience
in project related activities to: set up the training institution, train
its staff and organize and manage a detailed training program
(theoretical and practical training and seminars), supervise the quality
of the training, develop the technical and management manuals; ensure
the gradual selection of in-service trainers, assist the personnel
division of SNRDA in monitoring and evaluating the impact of training
on staff and SNRDA's achievements, and develop personnel management
systems (48 man-months);
(b) two local engineers to carry out on-site training (48 man-months each);
and
(c)  training instructors (umoniteurs") provided by SNRDA, experienced in
civil works techniques with a secondary education degree, to supervise
and train local road contractors and workers.
The project also includes the hiring on a temporary basis of junior engineers
or students in their final academic year to assist in preparing and
implementing pilot actions described in Annex V (240 man-months). This will
develop their practical skills in managing road works.
5.   Aside from training, the instructors would develop road maintenance
schedules to be included in the maintenance contracts and would refer their
technical observations to the zone engineers and work inspectors, in view of
perfecting technical specifications and maintenance instructors. Specifics
on the procedures, territorial responsibility, work load and timetable; and
on the training, supervision and recycling of the instructors would be
developed in the early phases of the project. Beyond the pilot phase, the
norm would be to staff each region with two to four instructors.   The
instructors would spend four to six weeks with each implementing agency
within their pilot areas, and would be supervised by the regional
coordinators and zone engineers, according to arrangements to be specified
in the management manual (see below).
6.   The project will provide the necessary means to facilitate the tasks of
the technical experts and executing agencies. In general, it will provide
the vehicles and equipment/supplies and cover operating costs (including
travel, transport, and subsistence). The instructors would be equipped with
a motorcycle, small tools and equipment and work clothes. Physical outputs
expected are shown in the attachment.
8.   On the technical side, SNRDA will organize field seminars to train the
field versonnel of the Government and executing entities in the technical
aspects of road maintenance, including technical interventions to protect the
environment. Technical training will include management methodologies (to



- 45 -                            Annex VI
Page 3 of 6
organize workers and the ase of equipment), as well as appropriate
technologies. Under the project, SNRDA will develop an illustrated training
manual including technical specifications (fiches techniques -- see Annex II)
and maintenance instructions (manuel d'entretien). Available premises, such
as those of Office des Routes and of CDI Bwamanda will serve to house the
seminars near the work sites, allowing for field trips.
9.   Management training will provide the staff with a thorough understanding
of the role and responsibilities of each line actor in SNRDA, from the front-
line (instructors and zone engineers), to the programming and administrative
back-up services at the regional and capital headquarters (see Annexes IV and
IX). Job descriptions will include timetables to ensure the rational use of
each employee's time, territorial responsibilities (based on the size of the
road  network  under  each  employee's  supervision),   and  supervision
arrangements.   As appropriate, management training would be provided to
contractors to improve the effectiveness of managing their field staff. A
management manual will be developed under the project.
10. The SNRDA staff will receive training in financial management and
accounting systems, based on the systems to be reviewed, developed and
computerized under the project.  This aspect of training will include the
elements of contracting related to: cost estimates, disbursement schedules,
accounting and payments. As necessary, training in financial management and
accounting systems will also be offered to executing entities.



- 46 -
Annex VI
Page 4 of 6
Traning Program
7.                The  training  program will  include  theoretical  training,  practical  training
and seminars, covering technical, managerial and financial aspects:
Action               Level    Length       Subject                               Action by       Participants
Theorottcal          National 15 days      Feeder Road* RehablIitation           TA              SNRDA staff
Training                                   Feeder Roads Maintenance                              Training Team
Work Organization A Implementation
Contract Management
Roporting A Payment
Protection of the environment.
Theoretical          Regional 8*10 days   FR Rehab. A Maint.                     TA              SNRDA staff
Training                                   Design of Studies                     Training Team   Zones Engineers
Work Organization A Implementation
Work Control
Controct Management
Reporting A Payment
Protection of the environment.
Theoretical          Regional 8*16 days   FR Rehab. A Maint.                     TA               Contractors' Staff
Training                                   Work Organization                     Training Team
and Implementation
Contract Management                  Zones Engineers
Protection of th. environment.
Demonstration Sites Regional 20 days       FR Rehab. A Maint.                    TA              Contractors' Staff
(Visits)                                  Work Organization                     Training Team   Zones Engineers
Bridge Works
On-Site Training    21 Zones 21*400 days FR Rehabilitation                       Training Team   Contractors' Staff
Labor-Based Techniques               Zones Engineers
Work Organization
Bridge Works
Seminars             Regional 8*1e  days   FR Rehab. A Maint.                    TA              Contractors' Staff
Bridge Works                         Training Team   Zones Engineers
Labor-Based Techniques
Environment Protection



- 47 -
Annex VI
Page 5 of 6
Budget
S.               The budget In US3 for this program is summarized as follows:
UNDP         IDA         GOZ
Technical Assistance (including contingencie)
Support to SNRDA (international experts)
Senior Highway Engineer (24 m-m)
Highway Engineer (48 m-m)
Financial Management Expert (48 m-m)
Junior Highway Engineer (2-48 r-m)
Engineering Expert (34 m-m)
Sub-total                                 981,000      646,000
Study fund       Sub-total                                       -         400,000
Training Program (including contingencies)
i. Training      Training Expert                      620,000
(48 m-m)
ii. National Training Team
2 Training Assistants (2*46 m-m)
Training Instructors (16*48 m-m)
Juniora Engineers (240 m-m)
Sub-total                                 188,000                  180,000
ii.  Theoretical Training and Visit*
Travel 1/                                  76,0 s
Field Expenditures 1/                      90,000
186,000
iv. On-Site Training
Travel  2/                                 46,000
Field Expenditures 2/                     440,000
Sub-total                                 486,00W
v. Seminars and Pilot Actions
Travel  3/                                 80,000
Field expendituros 3/                     192,000
Sub-tote l                                272,000
vi. Operating Costs, miscellaneous
Travel 4/                                  86,000
Field Expenditures 4/                     102,000
Vehicle Operating Costs                    67,000
264,000
Sub-total                                 1.864.000          --       180.OW
GRAND TOTAL                               2,846,000     1,045,000    180,000
1/ On the basis of an average of  5 travels of  16 days per year, per staff
2/ On the basis of an average of  3 travels of 122 days per year, per staff
3/ On the basis of an average of  6 travels of  30 days per year, per staff
4/ On the basis of an average of 12 travels of  15 days per year, per staff
eg a total of 980 travels and 3870 days of mission.



- 48 -
Annex VI
Page 6 of 6
Attachment
ZAIRE
Pilot Feeder Roads Proiect
Output                           Timetable                         Responsibility
Model contracts                   12-1990                          Civil engineer
Progress reporting system        12-1990                           Civil   engineerlFinancial
analyst
Technical   specifications       06-1991                           Civil engineer (training)
(for standard works)
Maintenance instructions         06-1991                           Civil engineer (training)
Management manual                06-1991                           Civil engineer (training)
Computerized financial           03-1991                           Financial analyst
management systems



- 49 -
Annex VII
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
Outline TORs fcr the Impact Evaluation
General
1.       Monitoring the environmental, social a.sd economic impact of feeder
road development is an essential part of the Pilot Feeder Roads Project. This
project will therefore provide the first phase of setting up a monitoring and
evaluation system on the long-term effects of feeder road development in
Zaire.
Description
2.        The action proposed under the project will consist of:
(i)  an ex ante survey of the conditions of the environmental conditions of
the roads, the population and the economy in a number of zones covered
and not covered by the project. Parameters to be measured in the survey
will include erosion and water stagnation along the roads, road traffic
volumes, agriculture production, commercial activities, access to
markets, rural-urban links, access to social services;
(ii) the gathering of data according to a determined format on the parameters
above during project implementation;
(iii)an ex post survey with the same objectives and for the same zones as in
(i) above;
(iv) the subcontracting of the collection and processing of the data gathered
under (i) to (iii) in order to evaluate the impact of the project and
formulate recommandations for further action on feeder roads;
(v) the publication of the evaluation results.
The result of the impact evaluation of feeder road development will be used
by DDR and shared with other authorities, such as administrations in charge
of environment and territorial administration, decentralized collectivities,
NGOs and donors. It is expected that this process of impact evaluation will
continue after the completion of the pilot project, under the responsibility
of DDR as its institutional capacity increases.
Means required
3.        The project requires the following resources:
(i) a socio-economist and environmental expert with extensive experience
for the preparation of the surveys (para. 2), including the
identification of the impact parameters for the survey and the format
for data collection; and for assisting in (a) the detailed preparation



- 50 -
Annex VII
Page 2 of 2
of TORs, staffing plan and work program and (b) analysing the impact
and findings at the end of the project (9 man-months in three to four
short-term interventions);
(ii) a socio-economic university researcher (recruited locally or abroad) to
head the survey team and train its staff in its initial phase (30 man-
months);
(iii)about 13 staff years of local junior engineers, researchers and/or
students in their final academic year, some of them with training in
environmental issues, to carry out the surveys above, follow up on the
gathering of data during the project implementation, and monitor the
pilot actions to be undertaken during the project (para. 2.04 and Annex
V of SAR). Some of this staff are expected to become a permanent staff
of DDR to continue the impact evaluation at the completion of the
project;
(iv) office space to be provided by DDR and office equipment including data
processing equipment;
(v)  an operating budget to finance field subsistence, travel in the interior
and office supplies; and
(vi) two vehicles.
Budget
4.       The total budget and financing plan for this action, which will be
fully-financed by the UNDP is estimated as follows:
(US$)
(i) Technical Assistance (including contingencies)
- Socio-Economist Expert (9 m-m)
- Socio-Economist University Researcher (30 rm-m)
Sub-total                                                  207,000
(ii) Operating Costs (including contingencies)
- Junior Engineers, Researchers (155 m-m)              31,000
- Travel  1/                                           32,000
- Field Expenditures 1/                               140,000
- Vehicle Operating Costs                              45,000
Sub-total                                                  248,000
1/ On the basis of an average of 16 travels of 50 days each per
staff eg a total of 130 travels and 6,300 days of mission.



- 51 -
Annex VIII
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Proiect Financing Plan
I                                                 I(USS million)  I                         Financing
lItem                                             ITotal                I       IDA         GOZ       UNDP
I-----------------------------------------------------------------------------l
IFirst Component                                  I                     I                                       I
I                                                 III
IRehabilitation                                   1  2.09               1          2.09                         1
lBridges & Ferries                                I  0.68               I          0.68                         I
IRoutine Maintenance  Works                       I  0.62               1                    0.62               1
lPilot Operations                                 I  0.32               1          0.32                         1
IDetailed Design  and Supervision                 I0.08                 I                    0.08
II                                                                      II
ITotal  First  Component                          I  3.63               1          2.99    0.57 6
I--------------------------------------------------------------------------I
ISecond Component                                 I                     I                                        I
I                                                 I                     I                                       I
IRehabilitation                                   I  2.60               1          2.50
IRoutine  Maintenance Works                       I  0.11               I                    0.11
IPilot Operations                                 I  0.26               1          0.26
IDetailed Design  and Supervision                 I  0,07               1                    0.07               I
ITotal  Second Component                          I  2.96               1          2.78    0.18                 I
IThird  Component                                 I          I                                                  I
I                                                 I                     I                                       I
IRehabilitation                                   I  1.79               1          1.79                         |
1Bridges A Ferries                                I  1.23               i          1.23
IRoutine Maintenance Works                        I  0.60               I                    0.50               I
IDetailed Design  and Supervision                 I  0.06               I                    0.06               1
I                                   ~           ~         ~~~~~I  II
ITotal  Third  Component                          1  3.69               1          3.02    0.57                 1
I----------------------------------------------------------------------------
iTotal  Three Components                          I 10.09               1          8.77    1.32                 I
I----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITechnical  Assistance                            1  1.74               1          0.S2                  1.22  1
ISupport to SNRDA                                 I   1.18              j          0.62                  0.64  I
ITraining TA                                      I  0.42               1                                0.42
lObservatory  TA                                      0.17              I                                0.17  1
ITraining                                         I  1.30               I                    0.14        1.16
III
ITraining Team                                        0.36              I                    0.14        0.21  1
ITheoretical  Training                            I  0.13               1                                0.13  1
IOn-Site Training                                 1  0.39               1                                0.39  1
ISeminars  and Pilot Actions                      I  0.22               I                                0.22  1
lOperating  Costs                                 I  0.20               1                                0.20  1
IStudy  fund                                      1  0.32               1          0.32
Impact Evaluation                                1  0.23               1                                0.23  1
lEquipment SNRDA                                  I  0.39               1          0.39
I----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITOTAL BASE  COSTS                                I 14.08               1         10.00    1.47          2.62  1
iContingenctes                                                          I I
I       Physical  (10%)                           I  1.41               1          1.00    0.16          0.28  1
I       Price                                     I  2.01               1          1.42    0.21          0.37
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------I
ITOTAL PROJECT  COSTS                             I 17.60               1         12.43      1.82        3.26  I
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__



- 52 -
Annex IX
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Proiect Management Responsabilities
1. As the project's executing agency SNRDA will be responsible for:
(i)  project coordination at the central and regional levels;
(ii) project implementation through appropriate monitoring of (a) the
selection of project roads by the Regional Authorities according
to agreed selection criteria (see Annex XIII), (b) the
contracting out process (paras. 2.19-26 of SAR), (c) the
preparation of detailed project design and contract documents by
the zone engineers, the Technical Directorate of SNRDA or
external consultants in compliance with agreed technical
standards for works including subsequent road maintenance (Annex
II), (d) the work supervision, (e) the regular payment of works
to contractors; (f) the implementation of the training program;
and
(iii)  providing the staffing of the training and the work supervision
activities;
(iv)  keeping the project accounts as agreed, requesting replenishment
of the Special Account (para. 2.31) when and as needed,
providing the regional project accounts with funding required
for payments to executing entities as needed, and monitoring the
utilization of these regional accounts; and 1/
(v) reporting on progress implementation according to an agreed
format (see Ar.nex XI).
2. The responsibilities above will primarily bear upon the Director of
SNRDA with assistance from (i) the Technical Directorate, (ii) the
accounting unit of SNRDA (iii) the Project technical assistance (TORs in
Annex VI), (iv) SNRDA's inspectors (TORs in Annex IV), (v) SNRDA's regional
directors and staff, and (vi) the zone engineers from ODR (TORs in
Annex IV).
1/   In each of the eight regions benefiting from the project, regional
project bank accounts would be opened in local currency. The SNRDA would
ensure that a sufficient initial deposit is made in the regioial accounts.
Thereafter the regional accounts would be replenished from the Special
Account, by exchanging foreign currency.



- 53 -
Annex IX
Page 2 of 2
3. SNRDA's regional directors will be involved in the planning process as
follows. They will represent SNRDA in the Regional Road Committe in charge
of selecting the roads to be rehabilitated and maintained and based on the
technical proposals prepared by the zone engineers, they will submit
proposals to the Committee for the annual work program--based on the
project's selection criteria--and corresponding budget. They will serve as
the secretariate of the Committee under the authority of the Regional
Governor and will transmit the annual program approved by the Committee to
the Technical Directorate of SNRDA for verification of compliance with
agreed criteria. Should SNRDA or IDA have any objection to the program as
decided by the Committee, the regional director would have to inform it on
the changes required to comply with these criteria or invite it to meet
again in the case significant changes or a choice between options are
required.
4. The regional director of SNRDA will also have to (i) verify the
documentation for payments prepared by the zone engineer to the executing
agencies and depending on the amount of the payment, either (a) transmit it
for approval and payment to SNRDA's headquarters and inform the Regional
Governor (for payments above $10,000 equivalent) or (b) transmit it for
approval and payment to the Regional Governor and inform SNRDA (for
payments below $10,000 equivalent); (ii) request SNRDA to replenish the
regional account when needed and provide the appropriate documentation to
justify the utilization of the account's resources; and (iii) collect from
the zone engineers and transmit to SNRDA with comments if any, the
information needed to prepare progress reports.  A summary of payment
procedures is shown in the Attachment.
5.   Finally, the regional director of SNRDA will report to the Regional
Road Committee on progress in project implementation and follow up both on
site and at the central level of SNRDA on any complaints and/or
recommendations from the Committee concerning the project implementation.



- 54 -
Annex IX
Attachment
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
Pilot Feeder Roads Proiect
Summarv of Payment Procedures
Attributaires principaux                 Moyens et petits attributaires
(relativement aux travaux de remise    (relativement aux travaux d'entretien
en etat et de sauvegarde et aux          et aux interventions limitees pour
interventions importantes pour les       les ouvrages)
ouvrages)
[Ignieur de zone             8 jours     ngenieur de zone  ]    4 jours
Metres et preparation du document        Prise de l'attachement sur le terrain
pour le paiement                         et preparation du document pour le
paiement
- S.N.R.D.A. regional        5 a 10 jours S.N.R.D.A. r6giona1l       4 a 8 jours
V6rification des 2 documents             Verification des 2 documents, approbation,
e1aboration de la demande de paiement
S.N.R.D.A. national          8 a 15 jours S.N.R.D.A. national
Approbation des 2 documents et           Verification et approbation a
e1aboration de la demande de             A posteriori des 3 documents
paiement
Gouverneur de region       8 'a 15 jours Gouverneur de region      5 jours
Acceptation de la demande pour           Acceptation de la demande pour
effectuer le paiement et mise            effectuer le paiement et mise
en oeuvre                                en oeuvre
Compte regional specifique au            Compte regional specifique au
projet pilote                            projet pilote
Virement a l'attributaire 2 jours        Virement a l'attributaire 2 jours
D61ai maximum : 1 mois a 50 jours        D61ai maximum : 15 a_20 jours



.                     jJ !j X: I! '                                              :1L-:1L:Et!     t!     i
.                    sa               'C           .. !              a    '
-,                      p  a                                            a. rS            |     j 
~~ t¢ yg m  X r f  * 7  e M  § [ m U  U r U U    t 7 i p    U                                !Ii   ¢¢U7w    
*       a *  ', *   *     V        *     -  a                a S    8-LU|t  -[      B  '      
j   t$ 3a1   w"*   bE                   I  :e 
3             3,       : .: ,: ,:~ 3,*    *                                                                                     -. [
a~   ~    a                                                           I           I    I       I        I    I      j
a             :  ,3         I,3:               3                                    ,      3       3        3     
__,__,*~~~il                a          a   HI' I *t [fil   I U I __E I
_ _ _ _   _     _  _    _  _     _     _  _     _ _     _     _  _     _  _    _     _  _     _  _    _ I      L ;
*3  ,S    -  a3                                     -.pp        a              pa      pa '  _'        54"
7  7,   1        17                      7                7        7-a   7      -.  -a
:    :  ::   : '    3    :    :                    ::               ::       ::       :        : * monaOal  a:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  __*  a 
'   . ,3      .......  ...         .              .    ,3    :    : '3 .    .:         .        33 -  3, a3.
_ _ _    _ _     _  _     _  _  _    _  _     _  _     _  _  _    _  _     _  _     _  _  _    _  _     _  _ a
1____1:_I____ ___O___1_ 
, 3,    ,          33,      ,           ,                ,,, 33    ,.    ,3 I                           "  3 
--1-- 1--ll-l---l-~~~~2z   a                            111a1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~  a 
:~~ ~ ~~~~~~ :              t:I::                        :         X         :      :        ."
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                         at1 v
xS                                  IInrUa .III                                              d    i a



- 56 -
Annex XI
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Progress Reporting Requirements
Proiect Progress Reports
1.        The Borrower will prepare quarterly and annual progress reports
to be submitted to the Association. The quarterly report will be submitted
not later than one month after the end of each reporting quarter and the
annual report no later than March 31 of the following year. The annual report
will include a synthesis of the quarterly reports and a forecast of
activities and expenditures for the following year.
2.        The progress reports shall contain the information described below:
(a)  the physical progress of each executing entity up to and during the
reporting period, by region and zone, including:
(i)    main   activities   programmed,   monitored   and   implemented:
geographical location of works on a map, road rehabilitation (km
completed and m3 of selected material vs. programmed quantities),
surface grading (km completed); ditches (km), road routine
maintenance (km), culvert maintenance (number and length), and
bridges (number and length);
(ii)   status of technical studies;
(iii)  status of contract award, reference and amount of contract, dates
of approval, effectiveness and completion, amount invoiced
cumulated during review period and dates of actual payments,
explanation for any delays, amount of updated forecast final
payments versus initial forecast.
(iv)   unit costs of each type of work;
(v)    training indicators, such as number of contractors, staff being
trained, length of training; program of training;
(vi)   progress in pilot actions; and
(vii)  other key information which is not provided by the quantitative
indicators;
(b)  the estimates of physical progress and payments to be made during the
next quarter;
(c)  progress on procurement of goods, materials, equipment and services
(status of procedure, contracts, implementation rates of contracts,
status of invoices and payments);



- 57 -
Annex XI
Page 2 of 3
(d) problems with procurement of civil works, information on difficulties
encountered and unforeseen events which have a bearing on the
implementation of the program and solutions proposed;
(e) expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(f) information on key staff changes in SNRDA, consultants or contractors;
(g) financial information on budget execution
(h) financial information on each project component (including regional
accounts) indicating the original estimated cost, the revised cost if
appropriate, the actual expenditure, the planned expenditures, and the
actual and planned withdrawals from the Credit Account;
(i) progress in the activities of impact evaluation;
(j) status of CRR's meetings and findings, requests or complaints by the CRR
members expressed and/or discussed during such meetings; and
(k) explanation as to deviations from the targets set and implementation
schedule and description of the corrective measures which have been
taken or are being prepared;
Proiect Completion Report
3.          The Borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to
be submitted to the Association not later than six months after the closing
date.
4.          The primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce the self-
evaluation  ^- tscity  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Association's  operating
department    . to facilitate dissemination of lessons learned through the
project.        A  will examine and assess:
(a)    the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and whether the
Association could have been more helpful;
(b)    the results that can be expected from the project, as compared
with expectations at appraisal and whether the original
expectations were realistic; and,
(c)    whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could have
been done better.
5.          For those components of the project for wlhich a rate of return
was estimated during appraisal, the PCR should contain a revised estimate of
the rate of return of the project, analyze the reasons for physical or
economic deviations. However, the revisec rate of return calculation should
be as simple as possible and should absorL only a minor portion of the time



- 58 -
Annex XI
Page 3 of 3
devoted to the preparation of the PCR. Relevant information supporting this
analysis should be included as an annex.
6.          The basic documents to be referred to are:
- credit application
- consultants' reports
- staff appraisal report (SAR)
- Credit Agreement document and supplementary letters
- supervision reports
- quarterly and annual progress reports
- correspondence files
- miscellaneous evaluation reports
- audit reports.



- 59 -
Annex XII
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Outline TORs for a Permanent Feeder Road Inventory
General
1.        A permanent feeder road condition inventory will be introduced in
SNRDA at the beginning of the project implementation to facilitate work
programming and controlling and will be developed and maintained during and
beyond project implementation.
Description
2.        The inventory will concern all feeder roads and will include:
(i) a physical description (location, identification of villages,
collectivities and major cross roads, length, width, bridges, soil,
vegetation);
(ii) road conditions (surface, ditches, erosion sites, drainage
structures, bridge and ferry conditions);
(iii)villages concerned by the road and contractors involved in road or
bridge works;
(iv) traffic volume, where available;
3.        The inventory will be completed and updated by ODR zones engineers
and SNRDA inspectors after each visit and completion of works. SNRDA will
keep computerized files of this data and will produce a hard copy on a
regular basis.



- 60 -
Annex XIII
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
Preliminary Economic Evaluation
Main Assumptions and Sensitivity Analysis
Introduction
The econonic evaluation of the pilot feeder road project amounts to
an initial estimate of the project's likely contribution to development. Lack
of disaggregated data for each specific site on crops, yields, population
density, areas of influence, farm gate prices, labor costs, and transport costs
have rendered unavoidable the estimation of project benefits on an aggregated
basis, using conservative assumptions regarding production increases from
consultant reports covering project zones and the mission's own estimates.
Furthermore, of all sources of direct benefits associated to the project only
the increased value of production has been estimated.   Project costs on the
other hand have been estimated on a unit cost basis for each project zone and
represent a firm estimate of project total costs irrespective of the fact that
road selection remains to be made (See Annex XIII).
The pilot nature of the project resides precisely in that ex-ante
and ex-post collection of data is to take place for each project site wh4ch will
ellow. firstly, for a direct measure at each site of the impacts and benefits
of feeder road construction in Zaire, and secondly, a validation of unit
construction cost estimates.
Main Assumptions and Details of the economic evaluation
The main assumptions made in the court? of the economic evaluation
are the following:
i) there will be a 30% increase in marketable agricultural production
in the area of influence of the project in the first two years of
the project life and increases of 5% p.a. thereafter;
ii)  area of influence of the project roads reaches 4.5 km away from the
road centerline;
iii) life time of bridges is estimated at 15 years;
iv) life time of road rehabilitation works is five years for the first
and third components and seven years for the second component;
v) crop types and aggregated crop proportions available for each zone
of the project are applicable to the respective areas of influence;



- 61 -
Annex XIII
Page 2 of 3
vi)  a five year horizon for the evaluation has been adopted;
vii)  only benefits from increased production have been estimated;
viii) a sensitivity analysis has been performed for: a 30% reduction of
benefits; a 10% increase in project costs; and variations of +l-
10% in the area of influence of the road; and
ix)  an adjustment of market prices for distribution and transport charges
has been made to approximate otherwise unknown, farm gate prices.
The preliminary rate of return given for the project is the weighted
average over all zones. Lack of site specific data and the use of zone wide
aggregates would not lend much significance to an attempt to disaggregate the
rate of return calculations by project component or by zone. A plausible range
between 12% and 33% for the project's economic rate of return has been
established.
The table below gives a summary of the estimates developed on the
basis of existing consultants reports and the mission's own field observations
for the year 1990, followed by the sensitivity analysis results.
ZAIRE
Project Feeder Road Project
Values of Production 1990
Component    Zone         HA Cult.     Gross  value  Net value    Pop/km Net value
of Prod.     of Prod.     of    of prod/
____ _____  8/ha       S/cap       FR    km of FR
2            GEMENA        77907       193             15        378    6834
3            BUMBA         74682       363             37        207    7608
3            BULUNGU      319169       357             92        414   38138
3            IDIOFA       341266       420            137        252   34511
3            MASI-MANIMBA  287136      283             87        288   25166
3            LUIZA        103786       320            e8         153   10410
1            KASONGO       80893       323             62        144    7443
3            NYUZU         19463       174             17         126    2184
3            KONGOLO       34463       228             21         126    2672



- 62 -
Annex XIII
Page 3 of 3
Economic Evaluation
Sensitivity Analysis
ERR         Zone of
InfDuence         Value of    Growth in           Costs
(km from road      increased   production
centerline)        production  thereafter
(in 2 years)
(%)          (%)
33% (*)         4.5                30         5                Base
29Z                                30         5                Base +10%
15%                                20         4                Base
12%                                20         4                Base +10%
28%             4                  30         5                Base
23%                                30         5                Base +10%
11%                                20         4                Base
8%                                20         4                Base +10%
39%            5                   30         5                Base
34%                                30         5                Base +10%
19%                                20         4                Base
16%                                20         4                Base +10%
(*) Best estimate



- 63 -
Annex XIII
Attachment
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Summary of Selection Criteria
General
1.        Pre-selection of roads by Regional Roads Committees will be based in
priority on the population's willingness to participate financially or in kind
in road rehabilitation or maintenance of the road which concern it. Economic
analysis will complete this selection to give priority to roads with high
probability of an acceptable rate of return and avoid a misapplication of
resources to works of low priority.
Description
2.        The selection process is described as follows:
At the pre-selection stage the ratio (S) of projected benefits due to feeder
road rehabilitation over rehabilitation cost is calculated for each road.
(i)    If this ratio is below a certain level which represents an estimated
economic rate of return (EER) of 10%, the road should not be
selected.
(ii)   If the estimated rate of return is between 10% and 12%, the road
would be a second priority;
(iii)  If the estimate rate of return is above 12%, the road is a good
candidate for selection.
During project implementation, collection of data for the purpose of evaluating
the project impact (Annex VII) will refine the data needed for selection criteria
and assumptions made under the economic analysis.



- 64 -
Annex XIV
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
LIST OF EQUIPMENT ACQUISITION
(US$)
ICB                                      Unit Price    Nb.    Total
Equipement des executants
Tracteur Lourd                             28,000       7       196,000
Jeux de Lames                               9,000       7       63,000
Remorque Lourde                             7,500       7       52,500
Remorque Plateau                            6,000       5       30,000
Tracteur Liaison                           23,000       5      115,000
Remorque Plateau                            5,500       5       27,500
Citerne Eau Tractee                         8,000       7       56,000
Chargeuse Pelleteuse                       64,000       7      448,000
Compacteur Tracte 7 Roues                  12,000       5       60,000
Rouleau Vibrant Manuel                      8,000       7       56,000
Petite Remorque Atelier                     5,500       7       38,500
Moto Pompe                                  4,000       7        28,000
Betonniere                                  1,500       7       10,500
Bicyclettes & Remorques                      ,175    300        52,500
Outillage Terrassement                     15,000       7      105,000
Outillage Ouvrages                         18,000       7      126,000
Outillage Mecanique                         4,500       7       31,500
Compacteur Automoteur                      40,000       2       80,000
Camion Benne                               14,000       4       56,000
Niveleuse                                  50,000       2       100,000
1.732,000
Equipement SNRDA
Pick-up                                    14,000       7       98,000
Motocyclette 125cc                          2,100      15       31,500
Berline                                    14,000       3       42,000
Jeep 4x4                                   22,000       3       66,000
Phonie                                     30,000       1       30,000
Equipement Bureaux                         50,000       1       50,000
317,500
2)049,500
LCB
Outillage a main                          300,000       1      300,000
Outillage Actions Pilotes                 100,000       1       100,000
400,000



- 65 -
Annex XV
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.   IDA's Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc. (estimated for this project to require six staff-weeks during the
first project year, four staff-weeks per year during the two following
project years, and three staff-weeks per year thereafter).
2.   Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a) Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i) in the form as indicated in Annex XI;
(ii) at the end of each quarter no later than one month later
and at the end of each year before March 31 the following
year;
(iii)by SNRDA which will coordinate report preparation by the
various entities involved in project execution;
(b) Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility
of the Technical Director of SNRDA. Review meetings with the
participation of the various agencies involved in project
execution will be held normally in mid-April and mid-October of
each year. The meetings will be chaired by the Director of
SNRDA.
(c) The SNRDA will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
IDA supervision missions, and for providing information required
by missions. Missions will normally travel extensively in the
field and be accompanied by the technical director of SNRDA.
(d) Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings will
normally be chaired by the director of SNRDA and agencies
involved in the project.
(e)   Minutes from the Regional Road Committee's meetings to be held
twice a year.



- 66 -
Annex XV
Page 2 of 2
Table: IDA Supervisioni Input into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                                                Expected Skill                   Staff Input
a    (monthly/year)                  Activity                                Requirements                     (staff-
weeks)
weeks)
6-9/90                   Supervision Mission                           Engineering                      5.0
(Project Launch Workshop)                     Economics
Assist in Preparation of                      Procuroment
Training Program.                             Training
Will include fi-ld visit.
10-12/90                Supervision Mission                            Engin-erirg                      3.0
(to revi-- start-up, and                      Training
implementotion of organi-                     Socio-economico
zational arrangement,
s*l-ction of consultants
and coincide with preparation
of annual work plans and
budget). Review start up of
the evaluation process Impact.
2-3/91                   Two Supervision Missions                      Engineoring                      2x3.0
and                      (to review start-up and                       Procurement
S-8-/91                  procurement matters),
with field visits.
10-12/91                Supervision Mission                            Engineering                      6.0
(to review progreos in                       Procurement
works, training and coincide                  Training
with preparation of annual                    Economics
work plan and budget).
Will include field visit.
2-4/92                   Supervision Mission                           Engineoring                      4.6
(to review progress)                         Procurement
Will include field visit.                     Environment
8-8/92                   Supervision Mission                           Engineering                      2.6
(to review progress)
10-12/92                Supervision Mission                            Engineering                      4.0
(to review progress and                       Procurement
coincide with preparation                     Training
of onnual work plans and
budget). Will include
field visit.
Years 93, 94, 96         Some pattern as for 92                        Engineering                      3x9.0
Three supervision missions per yeor           Procurement
(including one at the end of                  Troining
1995 or early 1996 to prepare                 Environment
PCR).                                         Soc;0-economics
Mid-term review meeting to be held
by November 1, 1993.



- 67 -
Annex XVI
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
Pilot Feeder Roads Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
1.   Mission aide memoire by D. Tighe dated July 1989 and mission report:
"Zaire Agricultural Feeder Roads - Project description August 1989."
2.   Mission report by E. Bynens: " Programme d'Ajustement des Secteurs
Sociaux - Projet de rehabilitation des routes de desserte agricole' dated
November 89 (2 volumes including annexes) and mission aide memoire.
3.   Draft final report by SWK-CADIC of the UNDP financed study: "Etude de
preparation d'un programme de rahabilitation et d'entretien de routes de
desserte agricoles" dated March 1990 in 3 volumes.
4.   USAID Study Report: "Decentralized Finance and Management of Road
Management in Zaire" - August 1989.
5.   Aide memoire dated October 27, 1988: "Suivi du Sixieme projet routier
et de l1tkude du programme de routes de desserte agricole."
6.   Mission aide memoires. dated April 4, 1989 and July 7, 1989: "Routes
de desserte agricole."
7.   SWK-CADIC Report dated February 1989: uVolet initial de formation
1989-90."
8.   Report by M. Garaud, "Annexe detaillees du rapport d'evaluation du
Projet Pilote des Routes de Dessertes Agricoles.' March 1990.



8.N.R.O.A. OROANIZATION
RURAL DEVELoIPMET DEPARTMENT
I
NATIEONAL DIRECTOR
TECiICAL lIRECTOR
[  Huesn Resources    l     l       Flann|                                    St>i-s A                       Region*#
A Logistic                          udget                                  Evaluation                    Coordinotteno
Diiel                           Division                                  Division                       Diviiion
Staff Section      j             Flnrnce Section                           Studies Secon Mnrket Section
Adeltnitr tion                   BuOdget A                                 ibridgim i Re d,             Regionol Progrnam
_   & Leciatic         _       Control                            _          Section                      S Secttin
Dlivclon                                                                                                                             c
Pubilc Relations                                                              Control
a  protocol                                                           _      Evaluation Section
S ctien
RegionaIl         Regional         Reional        Regional Coord. a1Rional                                Regional      |    Regional
Coordinatien     Coordination     Coordination                          Kaaali- Kasal-  1 Coordination   Coordination    1  Coordination
| andandu    | ae Zaire            Equateur         Occidental       Occidental         Nonthec            Shaba             South-Kivu
IFl



IBRD 22294
MALI]       NIGER                                                                                                                               2 CHD  2  24                                                                  3'2
'-      -'                                     SUDAN                                                        CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NIGERIA                                                                                                                                                                                                SU A
;                                          4  ETHIOPIA                 BG                 3             _
GA'O                12          _       AN                                       ANAA                                                         1    - 0 f                                                         UAD
G     C~TA 'ARIA BREP              EPL'           E U LX            <,,      V\~<,
r0000.  \- 4          RUNDite                                                            Jx -"L. L-    c
>                                    J          U    ~   )Xe ANZANIA<                                              HA    -ZIREt                         ,y\   UrUD 
4"I                K-                                                                     .-
GABTO N                                                                                                                                                                                                 j     'VBI
ZA I R E                _                                  t    V            o           >                     .M,           f  _._.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ZA IR 
ANGOLA         '           * t                              1             E           ER
r    AEA -4    G5BGU2                        BNAA-rao                                                                                                                     UGANDA
n  PEOPLE'S  RE`PUBLIC                                                                                                                         R il  L, oro
GABON                         ~~~~~~OF THE CONGO                                                                                                                                                   -
p                                                                                                                                                                           4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Zone             BAunDaUNeU                                                         i~                                       >   'ASA K  3
BAZZAVIBANDUN DU-, 3oundanes                                                      IAE    A Tn A 
A T L A N TIf-C          /CRegionsouE Aar.                                                                                                                                                                             TANZANIA
OC E AN                000fl  Lo4iR~.h   En                                                                                                           L                         3onOoY c   aL !
5       100      20)      ass001
Miles  12
ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROAD PROJECT3
1 Fi,,t Coepan-t                    -     Paved Roads
2    Semad C..pan..nt                   - Mawn Earth Gravel Roads
.   Third Coo,p-ni                  4teRirodse -pea h.., oe non-aby
[] Pilot OFeraAnon                  @     National CaprtalsAN OAd-I .- ,*                                                                                                                                            i
*    Reg,on Capitals                                                                                                                                      Vb.Th
-W                                                                                      0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B OB e  do ad irpt, -r Bin   12
Zooe Boundaries                                                                                                                                    pweafa Th. VbBA Bo, wa meA
Sub-region Boundanes                                                                (                                            noon.oI           Id         --nB .iteion CqrBsm
Region Boundaries                                                                                    ZA BAaae  aet o..
-.-    nternational Boundaries                                                                                                                         -h b. W
APRIL 1990



