Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RePOrt No. 13917
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2178-ZR)
JANUARY 19, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit = Zaire (Z)
January 1989       US$1  =        Z300
December 1990      US$1  =       Z2,000
December 1991      US$1  =    Z91,080
December 1992      US$1  = Z2,736,250
March 31, 1993     US$1  = Z2,529,500
December 31, 1993' US$I =         NZ12
February 28, 1994   US$1  =      NZ108
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                                 3.28 feet
I kilometer (km)                            0.624 miles
I square kilometer (km2)     =              0.386 square miles
I metric ton (m ton)                        2.204 pounds (Ibs)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDI      Centre de Developpement Integral (an NGO in Bwamanda, Equateur)
CRR      Commission Routiere Regionale (Regional Road Committee)
DDR      Departement du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
DTPAT  Departement des Travaux Publics et de l'Am6nagement du Territoire
(Ministry of Public Works)
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
ILO      International Labor Organization
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
ODR    Office des Routes (Bureau of Roads)
OVD      Office de la Voirie et du Drainage (Drainage and Streets Bureau)
PCR      Project Completion Report
PPAR    Project Performance Audit Report
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SME      Small and Medium-Size Enterprise
SNRDA  Service National des Routes de Desserte Agricole (National Feeder
Road Service)
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDP   United Nations Development Program
In October 1993 the Bank of Zaire introduced a new currency unit, the New Zaire (NZ), equal to NZ = Z3,000,000.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 19, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zaire
Pilot Feeder Roads Project (Credit 2178-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zaire - Pilot Feeder Roads Project (Credit
2178-ZR) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower which
basically concurs with the statements in Part I.
Credit 2178 (SDR9.6 million approved September 11, 1990) was closed on January 25, 1994,
four years ahead of schedule. 23.5 percent of the credit was disbursed. The credit was closed
because the political and economic situation deteriorated in Zaire, and because the Government did
not comply with the provisions of the Credit Agreement, specially regarding counterpart funding.
Zaire being delinquent on its debt service to IDA, all disbursements were suspended, and the country
placed in non-accrual status on November 15, 1993.
Following IDA's decision to curtail its lending program to Zaire, the project was part of a
core program of high priority projects. Objectives were to (i) test and evaluate alternative methods
for rehabilitating and maintaining feeder roads; (ii) strengthen the institutional framework; (iii)
promote the local road works capacity; and (iv) develop financial mechanisms for cost recovery. The
project was complex, with a major institutional strengthening, studies and training component; and
a five-year program of some 9,200 km of road works and of reconstruction of 450 bridges. The PCR
concludes that actual project results were negligible despite the remarkable dedication of
implementing agency staff. The number of bridges and culverts reconstructed and repaired was less
than 50 percent of targets. Road rehabilitation and maintenance realized only 15 percent and three
percent of targets. Renewal of ferries was not accomplished. Project headquarters were devastated
during the 1993 riots and equipment looted; the project could not be re-started. Training activities
coordinated by an International Labor Organization (ILO) expert were competent but trainees could
not be employed due to lack of counterpart funds. The institutional strengthening goals could not
be reached.
The PCR is complete, well-written and issues-oriented. The project outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely and its institutional impact as negligible. No audit is
planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2178 - ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PR E FA C E                                  ............................................... i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY  ................................................                                                            ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  PROJECT  IDENTITY                                                        1......................................... 
B. PROJECT BACKGROUND ......................................... 1
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ........................................ 2
Project Objectives ......................................... 2
Project Description ........................................... 2
D. PROJECT  DESIGN  AND  ORGANIZATION    ......................................... 3
E. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION .........................................                                                   5
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up .........................................                          5
Implementation  Schedule ..........................................                                         5
Procurement ..........................................                                                      7
Project Costs ..........................................                                                    8
Disbursements and Credit Allocation ..........................................                              8
F. PROJECT RESULTS .......................................... 9
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                        ....................................... 10
H. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................                                               ...................... 10
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                           ..11.................................... 1
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP                                   .......................................... 12
K.  CONSULTING   SERVICES                             ...................              ...................... 12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                               I



Table of Content (Cont'd)                                                                                                                           Page No.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA .......................................... 12
M. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ........................................ 13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........... 15
A. INTRODUCTION ....................................................                                                                       15
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................                                                       ............... 16
Technical Assistance and Porvision of International Experts    ................ 16
Local Higher-Level Staff                                        .................................................... 17
Work Programs and Capacity of Contractors ....................................... 17
W ork  Contracts ....................................................  18
Equipment Contracts ....................................................  18
Pilot Actions  ....................................................  19
Studies ....................................................                                                                 19
Training ....................................................                                                                20
C. PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION .................................... 20
D. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE                                               .................................................... 21
Project Cost and  Financing .................................................... 21
Disbursements  by  Project Sub-Component .............................                                        ............. 22
Use  of Bank  Funds .................................................... 23
Audits  ..................................................... 24
Conclusions ..................................................... 24
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ......................................................... 25
1.  Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits .25
2. Timetable .26
3.  Credit Disbursements .26
4.  Project Implementation .27
5.  Project Costs and Financing .28
6. Project Results .29
7.  Status of Covenants .30
8.  Use of Bank Resources .33



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2178-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Pilot Feeder Roads Project in
Zaire, for which Credit 2178-ZR in the amount of SDR9.6 million was approved on
September 11, 1990, and signed on October 4, 1990. The Government of Zaire was the
Borrower, and Service National des Routes de Desserte Agricole (SNRDA) the
implementing Agency. The credit became effective on May 3, 1991, and was closed on
January 25, 1994, about four years ahead of schedule. The last disbursement under the
credit was on January 12, 1994. Only 23.5% of the credit was disbursed; the balance of
SDR7.3 million was canceled, effective January 25, 1994.
The credit was closed ahead of schedule because of the deterioration of the
political and economic situation in Zaire and of non compliance by the Government with
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. Because Zaire was delinquent on
its debt service payments to IDA, disbursements were suspended for all credits on July 15,
1993, and IDA placed Zaire in "non-accrual status" on November 15, 1993. In view of
persistent problems with the overall country situation which made it unlikely that the
project's development objectives could be attained, as well as the country's non-accrual
status, IDA decided to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit and close the account.
This PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the South
Central and Indian Ocean Department (AF3IN).  The project was supervised in
October/November 1993, but a completion mission did not take place. Parts I and III
were sent to the Borrower with the request to prepare Part II, which was received in July
1994.
This PCR is based on The Memorandum and Recommendation of The President,
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit Agreement, reports by and
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal memoranda and interviews with
staff associated with this project over the years.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2178-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
(i)    The general objective of the project was to strengthen Zaire's institutional capacity
to maintain and rehabilitate feeder roads. Specific objectives were to test and evaluate
alternative methods for the rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads, strengthen the
institutional framework including the development of local capacity to carry out the
works, and develop cost recovery mechanisms. The project consisted of the following
components: (a) institutional strengthening, including training and a study fund; (b) feeder
road works (on a total network of 1,700 kilometers) and pilot actions; and (c) monitoring
and evaluation of the project's impact. The project's goals were to identify: (1) the most
efficient institutional and financial arrangements for financing and managing feeder roads;
(2) the technical requirements for the roads to meet future traffic needs and minimize
negative environmental impact; (3) the socio-economic factors having the greatest
influence on the successful implementation of low-cost rural road works; and (4) the most
appropriate methodology for identifying, evaluating, executing and monitoring rural road
works (paragraph 4).
Implementation Experience
(ii)   For reasons mostly beyond the control of the implementing agency, the National
Feeder Road Service (Service National des Routes de Desserte Agricole - SNRDA), the
overall implementation experience of this project was not satisfactory. The main reason
for the project's unsatisfactory implementation experience was the disastrous effect of the
civil disturbances and military-led looting of September 1991 and January 1993 on
SNRDA and the executing agencies. Less than half of the contracted works were carried
out, covering only 10 zones (not 21 as envisaged in the SAR). In January 1993, SNRDA's
headquarters were destroyed and all its equipment was stolen. Insufficient means of
communications, combined with a chronic shortage of counterpart funds and difficulties in
recruiting regional staff, made it almost impossible for SNRDA to exercise its supervision
and control functions satisfactorily. Moreover, payments to small contractors were made
more difficult by the collapse of the banking system (paragraphs 15-17).
(iii)   Two of the pilot actions were not carried out, and the other three (protection
against erosion, cost recovery experiments and wooden bridges) were only partly
completed (paragraph 18). Implementation of the institutional strengthening component
suffered from political uncertainties and the absence during most of the project's duration



- iii -
of the UNDP-financed and ILO-provided Project Coordinator and of the IDA-financed
Financial Management Expert. The money allocated for the Study Fund was not used
(paragraphs 19-20). On the other hand, with the UNDP-financed and ILO-provided
Senior Training Coordinator on the job during most of the project's duration, training
activities were quite substantial and included the preparation of manuals and technical
brochures. Practical training was limited, however, because a suitable construction site
school was identified only in early-1993 (paragraph 21). The implementation of the
component for the monitoring and evaluation of the project's impact was limited to the
carrying out of three ex-ante surveys in two regions (paragraph 22).
(iv)   Although the original closing date of the credit was December 31, 1997, the credit
was closed on January 25, 1994, because of the deterioration in the country political and
economic situation, Zaire's non-accrual status and persistent non compliance by
Government with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. The undisbursed
balance of the credit (SDR7.3 million) was canceled effective January 25, 1994 (paragraph
27).
Results
(v)   Project results can be described as negligible. The number of bridges and culverts
reconstructed and repaired was slightly less than 50% of those targeted in the SAR for the
whole of the project's duration. However, for road rehabilitation and grading, and routine
maintenance, only 15% and 3%, respectively, of targeted works was completed. With
respect to another road works sub-component, the renewal of ferries was not
accomplished. The pilot actions sub-component yielded insignificant results, as did the
component for monitoring and evaluating the project's impact. Regarding institutional
strengthening, some useful work was done in terms of preparing technical specifications
and manuals, and designing model contracts as well as a progress reporting system. Also,
a substantial number of people have received training. The conditions prevailing in the
country during the three years of project execution (political disturbances, pilferage of
vehicles and equipment, lack of local funding, and collapse of the banking system) explain
to a large degree the lack of progress towards achieving the objective of strengthening
Zaire's institutional capacity to maintain and rehabilitate feeder roads (paragraphs 28 to
33).
Sustainability
(vi)   As the results of the project thus far have been negligible, the issue of project
sustainability is not too relevant. Although the IDA credit has been closed, project
execution is expected to continue--albeit on a much reduced scale--with UNDP financing;
some objectives that have not been achieved to date may therefore be achieved in coming
years (paragraph 34).



- iv -
Findings and Lessons Learned
(vii) When the credit was approved, IDA had significantly curtailed its lending program
to Zaire, and had decided to finance only a core program of high priority projects
(including this project). Difficulties were expected, and some of the project's risks were
identified in the SAR. With the wisdom of hindsight, one might argue that it was not
reasonable for IDA to have stayed with the project for as long as it did in the hope that the
situation would improve. As it was, the overall situation continued to deteriorate and the
results of the project were therefore negligible. The project's design, implementation and
supervision by SNRDA and IDA should have been more focused towards its experimental
and pilot elements.  IDA did not fully appreciate the staff intensity required for
supervision, although country conditions were such that it might have been difficult to
improve performance.  IDA  could have done more to enforce the Government's
compliance with the covenant on counterpart funds (paragraphs 44 to 46).
(viii) Two main lessons can be learned from this project. First--and this applies to many
other projects--when a government is not capable of financing its share of project costs,
maintaining the peace or protecting assets, successful implementation is impossible, no
matter how good the project's design. Second, a "pilot" project should be small in scope
in order to remain manageable. The project had ambitious objectives which would have
been difficult to achieve even in five years. At the same time, even a small pilot project,
often requires the resources and diversified expertise commensurate with a full-scale
investment project (paragraph 47).






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIREO
PILOT FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2178-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name             Pilot Feeder Roads Project
Credit Number            2178-ZR
RVP unit                 Africa Region
Country                  Zaire
Sector                   Transportation
Sub-Sector         :     Roads
B.  PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    At the time of project appraisal, Zaire's tremendous development potential was
beset by formidable constraints which arose primarily from issues related to governance,
including the lack of sound public expenditure management and commitment to
development. Zaire's poor performance in addressing these issues had led to an erosion of
the country's external credibility. In response to deteriorating country performance in
general, and public expenditure management in particular, IDA had postponed indefinitely
the preparation of new quick-disbursing and large investment operations. Instead, IDA
adopted an assistance strategy consisting of a core program of high priority investment
and institution-building projects which addressed long-term development issues, and
whose benefits would continue to accrue even in the absence of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework. The Pilot Feeder Roads Project was part of this core
program.
2.    Zaire is an almost land-locked country of vast proportions (2.3 million km2). Its
population is located around a large equatorial rain forest, with about 60 percent living in
rural areas. Despite the obvious agricultural potential of these areas, realized yields have
been typically low in part because of a lack of feeder roads to link producers to
intermediaries, consumers and technical and physical inputs.
3.    In line with its commitments in the transport and agriculture sectors, IDA intended
to support the Government in rehabilitating the basic feeder roads infrastructure and in
setting up maintenance institutions and financing mechanisms to ensure its sustainability.
With the Pilot Feeder Roads Project, IDA intended to initiate this complex task with an
innovative approach involving the use of labor-intensive techniques; reliance on existing



local institutions (that are directly concerned with feeder roads but do not specialize in
road rehabilitation and maintenance) to be executing agencies; experimentation with
different cost-recovery methods; and the development of an on-site evaluation mechanism
to measure and monitor the project impact. Like the Pilot Agriculture Extension Project
(Cr. 2096-ZR), this project was considered a pilot operation, whose lessons were to serve
as the basis for future replication on a larger scale.
C.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
4.    The overall objective of the project was to strengthen Zaire's institutional capacity
to maintain and rehabilitate feeder roads. Specific objectives were to test and evaluate
alternative methods for the rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads, strengthen the
institutional framework necessary for this purpose, promote the development of local
capacity to carry out the works and develop the necessary financial mechanisms. As a
result, the project was to identify: (1) the most efficient institutional and financial
arrangements for financing and managing feeder roads; (2) the technical requirements for
the roads to meet future traffic needs and minimize negative environmental impacts; (3)
the socio-economic factors having the greatest influence on the successful implementation
of low-cost rural roads, and (4) the most appropriate methodology for identifying,
evaluating, executing and monitoring rural roads works.
Project Description
5.    During project preparation, a spectrum of pilot areas (zones) had been selected,
taking into account the existence of local capacity to execute the works. Out of the 21
administrative zones which were to benefit from pilot operations in eight regions, fifteen
were chosen to coincide with areas covered by the Pilot Agriculture Extension Project; the
six other pilot areas were retained because of ongoing or planned rural development
activities and the presence of worthy executing agencies (cotton and rice companies).
6.    The project consisted of the following components:
(a)   Institutional strengthening, studies and training (US$4.8 million).
- Strengthening the capabilities of the Service National des Routes de Desserte
Agricole (SNRDA), of the Commissions Routieres Regionales (CRR) and various
other entities (SMEs, NGOs and Collectivities) through the development of
systems for programming, subcontracting, monitoring, and supervising works, as
well as for payment,
- Conducting technical studies for the preparation and monitoring of the work
programs (Study Fund); and



- 3 -
- Providing theoretical and practical training of the staff of the SNRDA and of the
entities carrying out the project both in technical matters and in administrative and
financial management.
(b)   A program of road works, including pilot actions (US$12.5 million).
- Rehabilitation of about 70 km with lightly mechanized techniques and grading of
about 700 km of roads; repair and reconstruction of about 180 bridges and culverts-
renewal of three ferries; and labor-intensive routine maintenance of about 2,500 km
of roads, all in the perimeters of operations of the Codenor and La Cotonniere
cotton companies (cotton areas sub-component or "Premier Volet");
- Mechanized rehabilitation of about 90 km, grading of about 300 km and labor
intensive routine maintenance, including spot improvement, of about 1,260 km of
roads within the areas of Centre de Developpement Integral (CDI) Bwamanda, an
NGO in the Equator region (CDI sub-component or "Deuxieme Volet'); and
- Rehabilitation of about 140 km with light mechanized brigades and grading of
about 360 km of roads, repair and reconstruction of about 260 bridges, and labor-
intensive maintenance of about 3,600 km of roads in the areas included in the Pilot
Extension Project (Cr. 2096-ZR) and other agricultural development projects
(SMEs sub-component or "Troisieme Volet").
- Pilot actions designed to minimize the potential negative impact of the project on
the environment and to test sustainable methods of rehabilitation, maintenance and
cost recovery
(c)   Monitoring and evaluation of the project's impact, including the evaluation of the
effects of rural road improvements on the environment, social and economic conditions,
agricultural activities and traffic volumes of rural roads (US$0.6 million).
7.    The total cost of the project, including contingencies but net of taxes, was
estimated at US$17.5 million equivalent. The project was cofinanced by IDA (US$12.4
million), and UNDP (US$3.3 million). The Government contribution was US$1.8 million.
Execution of the works was expected to cover a five year period starting in July 1991, and
technical assistance for project management and training was to be provided for four years
starting in January 1991. The project's completion was planned for June 30, 1997.
D.   PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
8.    The project was prepared on the basis of a solid conceptual foundation. In 1988,
the Government undertook a UNDP-financed study of a large-scale feeder road program
for which IDA was the executing agency. The study recommended ways of improving
institutional  arrangements,  local  management  capabilities,  and  the  planning,
implementation, monitoring and financing of feeder roads, and reviewed criteria for



- 4 -
project economic analysis and standards for rehabilitation and maintenance works. It
concluded that a national feeder road program should be started, on a limited scale, to test
the viability of institutional strengthening.  The scope of the project was set by this
recommendation.
9.    The project, largely based on the recommendations of the study, was designed as a
first phase of a national feeder road program, and its concept was owned by all parties.
Project design was innovative: although requiring some initial Government funding, the
project was expected to become progressively self-sustaining after appropriate cost-
recovery mechanisms had been tested and adopted. The design of the project tried to
address all the major issues in the road subsector.
10.   In mid-1989, the Government decentralized feeder road activities, allowing the
programming, procurement, payment and monitoring of works to be carried out under the
Regional Govemor's authority, with periodic reporting to the central level. The financing
of feeder road works was partly ensured by earmarking a portion of the road tax to
SNRDA, and this mechanism was subsequently improved with the introduction of an ad
valorem fuel tax and the resumption of periodic price adjustment of petroleum products.
11.   The project was to be implemented by Government through the Ministry of Rural
Development (Departement du Developpement Rural - DDR), with SNRDA as the
implementing agency. SNRDA was to be responsible for project coordination at the
central and regional levels, and for various stages of project implementation: (a) the
selection of project roads by the regional authorities according to agreed criteria, (b) the
preparation of detailed project design and contract documents by the zone engineers, its
own Technical Directorate or external consultants in compliance with agreed technical
standards for works including subsequent road maintenance; (c) the contracting out
process; (d) work supervision; (e) the payment to contractors for works; and (f) the
training program. SNRDA would also provide the staff for training and works supervision
activities, keep project accounts, manage the Special Account, monitor the regional
accounts, and report on the progress of project implementation. Execution of the works
would be contracted to cotton companies, collectivities, SMEs and small NGOs which are
located in the areas and have the capacity to execute the works. When bidding was
rendered infeasible by insufficient competition or unacceptable results, negotiated
contracts were permitted on the basis of a specified schedule of prices.
12.   The project was well prepared, although a number of details remained to be
worked out. Five issues in particular--contained in a supplemental letter to the Credit
Agreement--were discussed and agreed during negotiations, as follows: (i) road selection
criteria and role of the Regional Road Committees; (ii) objectives and principles of the
cost recovery mechanisms; (iii) objectives of the mid-term review; (iv) terms of reference
for the impact evaluation; and (v) technical assistance and training programs. Project
design and organization were based on the lessons of past experience with feeder roads in
Zaire and on recent government decisions intended to address some of the issues in the
road subsector. The nature and objectives of this pilot project were clearly understood,
and IDA showed flexibility, particularly in procurement, to ensure that the project and its
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - - - - - -



- 5 -
implementation arrangements would be well adapted to local circumstances. It was
generally agreed that, given the high degree of political and economic uncertainty in Zaire
and the lack of experience of SNRDA's staff with IDA procurement rules, the project
would require substantial supervision input at an early stage.  Experience showed,
however, that the project was too ambitious and that, particularly given its pilot nature, it
would have been better to limit it to a smaller geographical area. In fact, this is what
occurred, given the flexibility allowed in the project's design.
13.   One of the innovative features of the project was that it would "help develop a
local capacity to review and evaluate the potential environmental impact of road works
and to design remedies, including engineering measures, as a provision in the contract
documents"; engineering measures to protect the environment were part of the pilot
actions. The objective of environmental protection, which may have been too ambitious,
was not achieved (on the other hand, the few works completed must have had a positive
impact on the environment by repairing the deteriorating road drainage system, although
drainage was not included in all road sections).
E.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up
14.   Although the project was approved in September 1990, the credit was declared
effective only on May 3, 1991. In order to facilitate the project's early start-up (October
1, 1990), IDA approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$300,000
(P647-ZR) to finance complementary training equipment, office equipment, spare parts
and technical assistance. The PPF was intended to complement the ongoing UNDP
project and expand UNDP-financed activities to address specific project preparation
needs, as well as cover additional technical assistance for project implementation.
However, the PPF was not used because the Minister of Finance did not countersign
IDA's letter of approval before December 3, 1990. In order to implement the project,
there was a need to assign a minimum number of staff (including zone engineers) for
project management, to make government counterpart funds available, to have UNDP
experts take up their positions (the Chief Technical Adviser (CTA) arrived in April 1991),
to prepare bidding documents and standard contracts, and to set up a system for control of
works and for reporting.
Implementation Schedule
15.   The start-up of the road works with five executing agencies (four cotton
companies and CDI Bwamanda) was delayed until August 1991. Work had barely begun
at the time of the disturbances of late September 1991, following which one of the
executing agencies indicated that it could not continue to carry out the works because of
force majeure; the remaining four were also affected and had to reduce their programs.
At the same time, SNRDA's ability to supervise the works and administer the contracts
was seriously diminished by both the pilferage of its equipment (23 vehicles were stolen)



- 6 -
and the fragility of its domestic funding. Because of the late startup of the project and the
socioeconomic difficulties, the 1991 budget and work program also covered 1992.
16.   The preparation of standard bidding documents and model contracts  for the
SME's sub-component of road works (or " Troisieme Volet") to be implemented by smaller
agro-industries, SMEs, NGOs and collectivities took longer than estimated; the first
contracts for this SMEs component were awarded towards the end of 1992, as part of the
second (and last) program of works submitted to IDA. Additional contracts were signed
with two more executing agencies in the first half of 1993. Work on the ongoing
contracts had to be stopped on July 15, 1993, following a general suspension of
disbursements by IDA in response to Zaire's default on its debt service.
17.   Table 4 in Part III identifies the portion of works actually completed, relative to
those proposed, for each of the project's components. Most of the contractors carried out
only a portion of the contracted works; overall execution was meager. Out of a toial
contract value of US$2.5 million equivalent, actual payments amounted to only US$1.1
million equivalent. Works were carried out in only 10 zones, instead of a planned total of
21.  SNRDA was devastated during the January 1993 riots; its headquarters was
destroyed, and all its equipment, including mobile radios, motorbikes and bicycles, was
stolen. Insufficient means of communications, combined with a chronic shortage of
counterpart funds and the difficulty of recruiting staff for the regions, made it almost
impossible for SNRDA to exercise its supervision and control functions satisfactorily.
Moreover, because of the collapse of the banking system, SNRDA had to find new
channels (essentially relying on the executing agencies) to pay contractors under the SMEs
sub-component.
18.   Two of the pilot actions envisaged in the SAR, (to test labor-based maintenance
and to compare different types of light equipment, as well as road signing and traffic
regulations measures) were not carried out; the other three were partly executed. Some
studies and tests were carried out on embankment protection or protection against
erosion, and in North Kivu, NGOs experimented with cost recovery for the maintenance
of rehabilitated road sections. Regarding the use of Bailey bridge construction, work was
started on two bridges but not completed; for one of those bridges the site was not
properly selected and the works were of poor quality.
19.   The institutional strengthening component, financed two-thirds by UNDP and one-
third by IDA, was partly implemented. The Chief Technical Adviser (CTA) for the UNDP
project (implemented by ILO), who was to serve as Project Coordinator, arrived in Zaire
in April 1991, left after the September 1991 disturbances, returned in March 1992, and
resigned in July 1992. He was never replaced, and the UNDP-financed ILO Training
Coordinator acted as CTA and Project Coordinator for the remainder of the project's
duration. This person could not fulfill all the responsibilities of a Project Coordinator, in
addition to its own responsibilities for training.
20.   The money allocated to the Study Fund was not used, but terms of reference were
prepared for a study of cost recovery and for permanent inventories of feeder roads. The



part of the project dealing with the review and development of accounting and financial
management systems and the programming of these systems was not implemented. The
recruitment of a financial management expert, financed by IDA, encountered a series of
setbacks, and the position was filled for only eight months.
21.   A substantial portion of the UNDP-financed training activities were carried out
with good results (Table 4, Part III). The ILO Training Coordinator was on the job
during most of the project period. The training benefited not only the personnel of
SNRDA in Kinshasa and in the field, but also collectivities and local committees. It
included assistance for the establishment of local committees for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural roads, also known as CLERs (ComitWs Locaux de Rehabilitation et
d'Entretien des Routes de Desserte Agricole). A manual for the management of feeder
roads was prepared for use by persons in charge of CLERs, and a number of manuals and
technical brochures were prepared for the use of technical personnel (foremen, works
inspectors, etc.), collectivities, executing agencies and contractors. Training was provided
through workshops and seminars, including some outside Zaire, and featured a study tour
to Kenya. Emphasis on practical training may have been insufficient, particularly for
foremen who play a crucial role in the rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads. For
that purpose, the project included a "construction site school". At first, SNRDA selected
facilities in South Kivu which could not be easily used; it was only in early 1993 that it
decided to use a more suitable workshop at Butembo in North Kivu. There were also
delays in the procurement of training equipment for the school.
22.   Not much was done regarding the monitoring and evaluation of the project's
impact on environmental, social and economic conditions, agricultural activities and traffic
volumes in the areas concerned. Three ex-ante surveys were carried out by a local
consulting firm for two regions: Equateur and Shaba. The surveys included a general
description and interesting information and data on the areas, but did not clearly identify
the key indicators to be monitored nor the method of systematically reporting and
evaluating selected data.  No ex-post surveys were carried out due to the country
conditions.
Procurement
23.   IDA showed considerable flexibility with respect to procurement arrangements in
agreeing to negotiated contracts, with good results. According to Schedule 4 of the
Development Credit Agreement, competitive bidding was not required if potential
contractors--for rehabilitation and maintenance of roads (including construction and repair
of bridges and culverts) rehabilitation of ferries, and labor-based works and pilot actions--
numbered fewer than three. In such a situation, works were to be negotiated by the
Feeder Roads Service directly with Codenor, La Cotonniere, CDI Bwamanda, small
businesses, non-governmental organizations or communities, in a manner satisfactory to
IDA. A standard contract and a schedule of prices were prepared by a consultant and
used for the first-year program with executing agencies; the experience gained during that
first round was taken into account to improve the standard contract and, in particular, to
try to ensure proper definition, measurement and control of the works. The system of



negotiated contracts, which aimed to facilitate the development of sustainable capacities
for feeder road maintenance by the early involvement in road rehabilitation and
improvement of the entities in charge of maintenance (like larger agro-industries and
collectivities), was better than force account and seems to have worked well.  The
adequacy, under this arrangement, of the control of works and certification of payments
has been questioned. While the extent of these problems is not clear, such shortcomings in
supervision appear related more to logistics (lack of vehicles, telecommunications and
money) than to the modalities of contracting.
24.'  The procedure of competitive bidding (advertised locally) was to be followed for
small contracts for civil works under the SMEs sub-component. At least for the first year,
selection criteria included the following factors, rather than price: organization, business
experience, road works experience, available equipment, personnel qualifications, work
plan, knowledge of labor-intensive techniques, and financial capacity, with a number of
points assigned to each category. Once contracts were awarded, payments were made to
contractors on the basis of a schedule of prices established each year, taking into account
labor and material costs, normal productivity and volume of work. This was not in line
with Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement on "Procurement" and the
provisions of the SAR. This procedure was followed because SNRDA believed that small
contractors were not capable of submitting realistic financial proposals based on a
knowledge of their real costs, and that they needed to be trained first. At the end of July
1993, IDA telexed SNRDA that bid evaluation for future contracts would have to be
based on price.
Project Costs
25.   IDA, UNDP and the Government disbursed or spent $3.1 million, $1.3 million and
$0.3 million respectively, which represented 25%, 35% and 17% of their respective
estimated total contributions to the project. The total amount of US$4.7 million spent by
the end of 1993 represented about 26% of the adjusted project cost appraisal estimate of
US$17.9 million (see Table 5 in Part III). Project accounts have been kept only by
disbursement categories with summary balance sheets, and not by project component in
the same format as in the SAR. Comparisons between actual expenditures and SAR cost
estimates cannot be made for some sub-components because of inconsistent category
classifications; for example, actual expenditures for equipment are not comparable to the
SAR estimate since they include, in addition to equipment for SNRDA, equipment for
executing agencies and contractors.
Disbursements and Credit Allocation
26.   The SAR disbursement forecast was too optimistic.  Total disbursements
represented 23.5 % of the credit when expressed in SDRs but 25% in terms of US dollars,
because of an increase in the value of the SDR in dollars since negotiations of the IDA
credit. Since the credit was closed ahead of schedule with about one-fourth disbursed in
total, and with no category in which more than two-thirds was expended, the allocation of
credit proceeds in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement did not need to be



-9-
amended. At 62% of the amount allocated, disbursements for the category "Equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, materials, supplies" were well above the average for all categories.
Unfortunately, that category corresponds to goods that for the most part were stolen,
destroyed, or have otherwise disappeared.
27.   The original closing date of the IDA credit was December 31, 1997.  All
disbursements to Zaire were suspended on July 15, 1993, when the country defaulted on
its debt service to IDA, and on November 15, 1993, Zaire was placed in non-accrual
status. In view of the persistently inadequate overall country situation and the non
compliance by Government with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, as
well as Zaire's non-accrual status, the undisbursed balance of SDR7.3 was canceled and
the credit closed on January 25, 1994. At closing, about US$2,000 of the Special
Account remained undocumented.
F.    PROJECT RESULTS
28.   Project results can only be described as negligible, notwithstanding the good
technical work and remarkable dedication of the Borrower's staff and other Zairians
involved in implementation, who tried to make this project a success. The project's failure
was mainly a reflection of the very difficult situation in Zaire that prevailed during most of
the implementation period.
29.   With the exception of bridges and culverts, achievements in the first two years of
the project were well below target. The number of bridges and culverts reconstructed and
repaired was slightly less than 50% of the SAR target. Road works carried out in 10,
rather than 21 zones, achieved limited results. For road rehabilitation and grading, and
routine maintenance, the project realized only 15% and 3% of its targets, respectively.
Renewal of ferries was not accomplished. In addition to civil disturbances, the shortfalls
may be explained by delays in the start up of works, difficulties in obtaining fuel and
materials, as well as insufficient monitoring and supervision by SNRDA due to lack of
funds and means of communications. The quality of the works was generally satisfactory,
with the exception of those done by one cotton company which had used labor-intensive
methods where mechanical equipment would have been more appropriate. Also, in the
same region, investments were made in feeder roads although the main roads on which
they depended had not been rehabilitated and were not passable. Another deficiency was
that, because of a lack of reliable data, economic rates of return were not calculated for
the road sections to be rehabilitated, though it was one of the selection criteria; however,
this is not a serious issue as the rehabilitation needs were so obvious. For the few works
that were carried out, the information necessary to compute actual rates of return was also
not available.
30.   Pilot actions have either not been completed or only partly so, and therefore the
results are insignificant. An interesting experiment in cost recovery involved arrangements
under which local committees of beneficiaries contracted routine maintenance to a local
NGO that operated a system of tolls for all motorized users. However, this experiment
remained limited in scope.



- lo-
31.   As of the end of 1993, the results of the component for the monitoring and
evaluation of the project's impact were nil.
32.   The project was of such short duration and suffered from such severe logistical
difficulties that it could not achieve its general objective of strengthening Zaire's
institutional capacity to maintain and rehabilitate feeder roads. Although much useful
work was done in terms of preparing technical specifications and manuals, and designing
both model contracts and a progress report system, the project failed to identify (i) the
most efficient institutional and financial arrangements for financing and managing feeder
roads; (ii) the technical requirements for the roads to meet future traffic needs and
minimize negative environmental impacts; (iii) the socio-economic factors having the
greatest influence on the successfuil implementation of low-cost rural roads; and (iv) the
most appropriate methodology for identifying, evaluating, executing and monitoring rural
road works.
33.   With the ILO Training Coordinator on the job during most of the project, training
activities (Table 4, Part III)--particularly theoretical training--were probably the most
successful part of the project. Unfortunately, in most regions, those staff who received
training are reportedly no longer on the job due to a lack of counterpart funds for
continued payment of salaries. Further, the absence of the Financial Management Expert
(whose services were to be financed by IDA) for most of the project period, prevented the
development and programming of financial management and accounting systems. The
institutional strengthening component also suffered from the absence, for all but ten
months of the implementation period, of a UNDP-financed Project Coordinator.
G.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.   Since the results of the project have been largely negligible, the sustainability of the
project cannot be addressed. Had the results been more substantial, however, one might
have questioned whether the assumptions made at appraisal, concerning the financing of
the recurrent costs of the project, were realistic. It was assumed that the cost of the
routine maintenance of rehabilitated roads and bridges would be financed under the
decentralized funding mechanisms established under the project, and that SNRDA's costs
for the management and supervision of maintenance works would represent only a small
share (about 0.2%) of its annual operating budget.  In practice, the cost recovery
experiment is too limited in scope to be meaningful, and almost from the beginning
SNRDA had serious funding problems. It should be noted, however, that, although the
IDA credit is closed, project execution continues, albeit on a much reduced scale, with
UNDP  financing.   Some  objectives (particularly  those  related  to  institutional
strengthening) which have not been achieved to date may yet be achieved in the coming
years.
H.  BANK PERFORMANCE
35.   At the time of project approval, IDA had already scaled down its lending program
to Zaire in response to the deteriorating country performance in general, and poor public



- I I -
expenditure management in particular. IDA decided to finance only a core program of
high priority investment and institution-building projects (such as the Pilot Feeder Roads
Project), which addressed long-term development issues and whose benefits would
continue to accrue to the population even in the absence of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework. Originally appraised as a component of the Social Sector Adjustment (then
Social Sector) Project, the Pilot Feeder Roads Project was subsequently processed as a
separate operation, which made sense. In retrospect, it may not have been reasonable for
IDA to continue financing a core program in the face of a deteriorating country situation.
It should be recognized, however, that throughout this period a resolution of the political
crisis was generally believed to be imminent.
36.   IDA's contribution to the project's design was mixed. A positive aspect of project
design was its reliance on experienced executing agencies. However, the project's design
failed to adequately link the various components with the intended results, in terms of
identifying various kinds of information needed for the sound management of feeder roads
(see paragraph 4). In addition, the project was too ambitious for a pilot project.
37.   The SAR was commended internally for being one of the first to include a
supervision plan. However, IDA did not allocate adequate resources for supervision,
despite the fact that two of the technical assistance positions (Project Coordinator and
Financial Management Expert), whose work would have facilitated project supervision,
remained vacant during most of the implementation period. At 9 to 11 staff-weeks per
year, required supervision input may have been underestimated and may indeed have
needed a different kind of expertise: to the extent that the project aimed at tackling the
rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads in an experimental manner, it would have
made sense to involve research staff in its supervision. On the other hand, IDA's resident
mission in Kinshasa played a positive role in the general follow-up of the project's
progress, and IDA made good use of research assistants for supervision both on missions
and at headquarters. During project supervision, the issue of counterpart funding could
have been pursued by IDA more vigorously.
38.   The Bank responded to the country's deteriorating situation in the appropriate
manner, by reducing the project's scope. In March 1993, planned feeder road works were
reduced by about 30%, with rehabilitation works limited to 10 zones instead of the 21
foreseen in the SAR. In October 1993, IDA proposed an even more substantial reduction
in the project's scope, with feeder roads and rehabilitation works cut by 70% and limited
to seven zones, respectively. When IDA finally decided to close the credit, SNRDA,
UNDP and IDA agreed that rehabilitation of works would be limited to two zones, that
SNRDA would reduce its headquarters and zone personnel accordingly, and that UNDP
would keep technical assistance limited to training activities in the two remaining zones.
I.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39.   The performance of the Borrower on this project was not very satisfactory. The
Government was not able to protect the goods financed with the proceeds of the IDA
credit, or to replace the vehicles and equipment stolen during the civil unrest. From the



- 12 -
beginning, the Government did not stand by its commitment to annually allocate no less
than US$5.3 million equivalent (in terms of 1990 dollars) for feeder road rehabilitation and
maintenance.  The Borrower did not comply with other covenants of the Credit
Agreement dealing with procurement, annual work programs and budgets, exchange of
views on cost recovery mechanisms, and the maintenance of project accounts. On the
other hand, the Government did ensure continuity in management by keeping the same
competent National Director of SNRDA on the job for most of the project's duration (that
National Director was finally removed only because he became involved in politics and
behaved in a manner incompatible with his civil service status). Also, with IDA's full
support, the Government avoided building up SNRDA into a large bureaucracy. Under
competent management, SNRDA performed as well as could be expected on the feeder
road works, considering the lack of funding and problems of logistics, the difficulties
encountered in the recruitment of regional staff, and the fact that some important technical
assistance included in the project did not materialize.
J.    PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
40.   IDA's relationship with the Ministry of Rural Development, SNRDA, UNDP and
ILO on the project was generally good.
K.   CONSULTING SERVICES
41.   The IDA credit was to finance the Financial Management Expert, the Study Fund,
Pilot Actions and the audit. The Study Fund was not used, and only a small portion of the
money allocated for a Financial Management Expert was spent. The expatriate expert
provided by the selected firm stayed only a few weeks in Kinshasa and was replaced by
another expatriate, following a procedure which was not acceptable to IDA; the contract
with the firm (which seemingly had acted in bad faith) was canceled by SNRDA. The
Borrower's proposals for the selection of another expert were received only shortly before
the IDA credit was closed and were therefore not acted upon. Only a small percentage of
the amount allocated for Pilot Actions was spent on contracts with local firms. The
performance of these firms can be rated mediocre to satisfactory. Measured against their
terms of reference, the performance of the auditing firms was satisfactory.
42.   The ILO-provided Project Coordinator financed by UNDP did not stay more than
a total of ten months, he performed well. The UNDP-financed and ILO-provided Training
Coordinator remained on the job for most of the project period, and for part of that time
he also acted as Project Coordinator. Although practical training should have received
greater emphasis, the overall performance of the Training Coordinator was good.
L.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
43.   Project documentation (the SAR, the Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President, the Development Credit Agreement and the Supplemental Letter, and the
standard bidding documents and contracts that were subsequently prepared) was generally
adequate for implementation and supervision. However, progress may have been more



- 13 -
easily monitored if institutional strengthening (including training) objectives had been spelt
out in greater detail. Also, some indication in the SAR of the methodology to be followed
for identification of the most efficient institutional and financial arrangements for financing
and managing feeder roads would have been helpful. Although progress reports were
generally submitted, they were incomplete and did not provide a consolidated picture of
the progress of the project.  The lack of updated information on project costs, by
component and by source of financing, made preparation of the PCR difficult.
M.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
44.   The SAR correctly identified, as the main risks associated with the project, the
weak administrative and financial capacity of the Government; the implementation
limitations of executing agencies; possible delays in payments; and difficult access to the
project areas. These risks were supposed to be minimized through close monitoring,
technical assistance and intensive training, limiting local financing requirements to a
minimum level and gradual establishment of decentralized cost recovery mechanisms, and
progressive start-up of works in the project zones. These safeguards might have worked
under normal circumstances, but conditions in Zaire were not "normal" during project
implementation.  Political disturbances, pilferage of vehicles and equipment, lack of
counterpart funding, and the collapse of the banking system are the main reasons for the
project's negligible results and overall failure to date. Although possible, it is unlikely that
the continuation of the project, on a substantially reduced scale and with UNDP-financing,
will significantly change the picture.
45.   When the credit was approved, IDA had significantly curtailed its lending program
to Zaire. Its assistance strategy consisted of a core program of high priority investment
and institution-building projects (including this one). With the wisdom of hindsight, one
might argue that IDA should have ceased all lending to Zaire much earlier, and should not
have remained associated with the project for as long as it did because of the country's
steadily declining overall situation. At the time, however, the experience of other African
countries provided some support for the prospect of an improved political situation, and
IDA wished to maintain a minimum presence during the transition period. IDA could
have done more to enforce compliance by Government with the covenant on counterpart
funds. It is also unfortunate that the Government could neither prevent nor minimize
SNRDA's loss of vehicles and equipment and recover the stolen goods, nor make funds
available to SNRDA for feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance.
46.   Design, implementation and supervision by SNRDA and IDA should have focused
more on the experimental and pilot characteristics of the project, in terms of the
components for institutional strengthening and monitoring and evaluation of impact. The
successful implementation of these components could have had a greater impact than the
rehabilitation and maintenance of a few kilometers of roads in a country the size of Zaire.
In addition, IDA could have allocated more staff resources for project supervision.
47.   Two main lessons can be learned from this project. First--and this applies to many
other projects--when a government is not capable of financing its share of project costs,



- 14 -
maintaining the peace or protecting assets, successful implementation is impossible, no
matter how good the project's design. Second, a "pilot" project should be small in scope
in order to remain manageable. The project had ambitious objectives which would have
been difficult to achieve even in five years. At the same time, even a small pilot project
often requires the resources and diversified expertise commensurate with a full-scale
investment project.



15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'
(English Translation)
A     INTRODUCTION
48.   The Government of the Republic of Zaire and the International Development
Association concluded a Credit Agreement on October 4, 1990, for the joint financing
of a pilot feeder roads project, for which SNRDA was to serve as implementing
agency. The project, which had also received UNDP financing for technical assistance
carried out by the ILO, was envisaged as the first phase in a large-scale national feeder
roads rehabilitation and maintenance program, with the participation of local entities,
through the local cost recovery measures that the project was to introduce.
49.   Planned to take five years, the project actually began in July 1991 and was
closed on November 15, 1993, following the suspension of World Bank activities in
Zaire owing to the accumulation of the country's arrears to the Bank.
50.   Over the two and a half years during project implementation, SNRDA faced a
serious financing problem with its annual budgets, as the project financing plan was
based on regular contributions from SNRDA generated from the petroleum tax, which
up to that point had been operating satisfactorily.  The financing problem  was
exacerbated by Zaire's socioeconomic troubles that resulted in considerable losses of
equipment procured under the project.
51.   This unhealthy environment forced SNRDA and its partners to reduce the area
to be covered under the project, from 21 to 10 rural zones. The factors cited above
also undermined the performance of potentially capable and eager contractors, and
resulted in the inadequate control and ineffective supervision of project activities by
SNRDA as well as difficulties in the mobilization of experts.
52.   While recognizing the relevance and critical importance of the project's
objectives to its future activities, SNRDA believes that the complex nature of the
project called for a more phased implementation over a smaller area.
53.   A pilot project of this nature would nevertheless always be recommended, given
the importance of road transport to the development of the rural areas of the country,
which have traditionally housed a large share of the population.
'Prepared by SNRDA (National Feeder Road Service) and Ministry of the Interior and Territorial Security.



16
B.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Technical Assistance and Provision of International Experts
54.   During implementation, the project utilized the services of four of the eleven
international experts originally envisaged:
the senior technical advisor (ILO expert) worked for eight months, essentially
on project coordination, preparation of bidding documents for the third
component and the pilot actions (UNIDO bridges, sand roads and gabions);
the training specialist (ILO expert) remained in the country throughout the
duration of the project (except during the period of civil unrest - from
September 1991 to March 1992). In addition to training, he also assisted with
certain activities delegated to the senior technical advisor;
the specialist in socioeconomics provided assistance, beginning in July 1992, to
a local office overseeing the impact study. He conducted three supervision
missions since the start of the project;
the accounting specialist (BEROCAN) originally assigned to this post was able
to work for only two months and was replaced on an irregular basis by a second
person who remained on board for six months. Following the termination of his
contract, local shopping was organized to recruit another specialist; no contract
was concluded due to the suspension of disbursements by the Bank. UNDP
agreed to finance under its budget the services of this expert for part of the
project implementation period.
55.   In addition to these specialists, two UNIDO experts (2 staff-months) provided
assistance in identifying sites and preparing the training session on wooden modular
bridges.
56.   In general, the services rendered by the international specialists were acceptable,
except for the accounting expert who was unable to implement a consistent work
program despite the time spent on the job. However, SNRDA deeply regrets the
absence of a senior technical advisor for project coordination, given project
complexity, the services of such an expert or of a part-time highway engineer were
vital. Unfortunately, security conditions prevented UNDP and ILO from promptly
finalizing the relevant documentation, despite its urgency for SNRDA.



17
Local Higher-Level Staff
57.   SNRDA, which had just been reorganized in 1990, in short order assigned to
both its headquarters and regional offices the personnel who were to conduct project
activities:
-     a training official, counterpart to the ILO training advisor (1991);
-     two training assistants for theoretical and practical training (1991);
-     12 zone road technicians responsible for monitoring the implementation of the
road programs (1991-1992); and
-     five local instructors responsible for overseeing training operations in the field
(1992-1993).
Unfortunately, a lack of motivation (personnel were not paid for several
months) and work equipment (a large number of vehicles and mopeds were lost during
the rioting) prevented these personnel from effectively carrying out their assigned tasks
properly.
Work Programs and Capacity of Contractors
58.   As provided for in the Credit Agreement, SNRDA was to furnish the work
programs and annual budget to the Bank, for its approval. Two annual programs (1991
and 1993) were sent to the World Bank.
59.   The 1991 program covered only works awarded to large contractors (first and
second components), since the third component, reserved for small contractors, was not
to begin until the training of their representatives had been completed.
60.   The 1993 program involved works awarded to large contractors (year 2) and
small contractors (year 1). It called for the rehabilitation of 2147 km of roads in 13
rural areas of the project. Due to the riots of September 1991, the 1991 program was
renewed for 1992.
61.   With regard to projections, SNRDA believes that the implementation capacity of
the contractors for the first and second components was somewhat overestimated in the
appraisal report. Many of the contractors could carry out the works solely on a labor-
intensive basis. The few that used equipment (COTOLU and CDI-BWAMANDA) did
so only in part and sometimes with difficulty. The project consequently reviewed the
unit costs applied to these contractors as of year 2 of the project.



18
Works Contracts
62.   The works contracts were split into two lots, depending on the type of
contractor. The works contracts for the first and second components were negotiated
between SNRDA and the contractors, after joint evaluation of the works to be carried
out. For the third component and pilot actions, public competitive bidding was
organized by the local governments and the contracts concluded between the contractors
and those governments.
63.   For year 1, the award procedure did not take into account the price criterion,
given the difficulties in preparing realistic estimates faced by the communities and the
training contractors were to undergo prior to the execution of works in accordance with
THIMO methods.
64.   The performance of most contracts was thrown into disarray by external factors
such as socio-political instability and problems in the economic and bank channels that
caused significant difficulties in supply and payments.
65.   SNRDA found a marked difference in results achieved, between SMEs and
communities that had and had not received training prior to the implementation of
works (e.g. Nord-Kivu and Bandundu).  To be effective, therefore, the training
program should be carried out before implementation of the works gets under way.
Equipment Contracts
66.   Project equipment was procured either internationally or locally, depending on
the size of the contract. International competitive bidding and three instances of local
competitive bidding were organized for a total amount equivalent to US$1,276,761.
67.   Equipment contracts were, in general, properly carried out; however, contracts
for imported products ran into major delays owing to a lack of flexible procedures for
exemptions from customs duties, despite the project's supposed exemption from such
taxes. In most instances, operations were undermined by administrative red tape and
an unjustified unwillingness to use procedures approved for the project. This situation
led to a delay in operations, along with exorbitant financial charges due to
warehousing.
68.   Much of the procured equipment could not be sent to the regions because the
SNRDA warehouses had been looted during the civil disturbances of September 1991
and January 1993. Nevertheless, SNRDA was able to send the regions vehicles to be
used in supervision by the regional officials (coordirators), some of the supplies for the
training programs for team leaders, works under the third component and equipment
for the organization of the worksite school (tractor and tools). Unfortunately, SNRDA
was not supported by the various governments in its efforts to recover or replace the
stolen equipment.



19
Pilot Actions
69.   This component of the project had first been incorporated into the large works
contracts.   Faced  with organizational problems caused by  the socioeconomic
environment, these contractors were unable to initiate pilot actions outside of the works
assigned to them.
70.   During year 2, the project adopted the approach of initiating pilot actions from
headquarters, following a proposal by the regional technicians. Several pilot actions in
particular were thus able to get off the ground:
erosion control through the use of gabions;
stabilization of sand roads (not yet completed);
wooden modular bridges (not yet completed).
Only the use of gabions was the subject of rural extension training among the
regional technicians.
71.   SNRDA believes that the pilot actions could have been properly carried out only
with the active participation of the regional technical personnel assigned to the project
as well as the contractors. However, project technical staffing was incomplete and
inoperative for the reasons mentioned above, and contractors had difficulty in carrying
out works assigned to them. Several pilot actions that were begun will nevertheless be
continued with the support of UNDP.
Studies
72.   The project undertook a socioeconomic impact study using UNDP financing.
At the time that World Bank financing ended, the study had provided additional data
for the ex-ante studies in the two regions selected. The study will be continued using
UNDP financing in a single zone, with new planning orientations.
73.   In addition to the impact study, the project completed a study on the
construction of the Piopio bridge (30 ml [sic]) and also accomplished the drafting of
technical specifications for feeder road-spanning structures, with the input of both local
consultants. SNRDA also finalized the terms of reference for the local road inventory
and the cost recovery studies.
74.   Pointing out that a category of studies vital to project implementation (cost
recovery and road inventory) was started late, SNRDA observes that the various Bank
supervision missions did not pay sufficient attention to that issue, even though the
project was being carried out without a senior technical advisor. As early as the end of
year 1, SNRDA had even requested Bank assistance in the practical identification of
road selection criteria in accordance with the recommendations of the project appraisal
report.



20
Training
75.   The training program had two major thrusts: the training of SNRDA staff and
the training of contractor personnel who would manage and carry out the road works.
76.   The training of SNRDA staff in accordance with project needs and available
funds enabled SNRDA to acquire the necessary planning, management and
implementation capabilities for the road programs. Several internal training seminars
were held to pass on the lessons drawn from the various training centers (Turin,
ASIST/Kenya, CEPETEDE/Zaire).
77.   The training of road contractor personnel was based on the needs expressed by
the contractors.  In addition to road management policy, works implementation
techniques, in particular those that were labor-intensive, were stressed. Unfortunately,
it was not possible to supplement this training program with training for the foremen at
the worksite.
78.   SNRDA considers that the second component of the training program (training
of contractor personnel) should have been initiated somewhat earlier and the locations
for the worksite schools determined first. Further, the training program was once
again undermined by the inadequacy and insufficiency of local instructors who were to
provide the training and assess training needs. The few instructors who were hired
could not take up their duties owing to SNRDA's financial problems.
C.   PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
79.   By the end of year 1 of the project, SNRDA had established a system for
monitoring the project's monthly activities in the regions, which was to provide data
for the quarterly reports. The system could not become operational, however, owing to
the operating difficulties associated with SNRDA funding.
80.   SNRDA also appreciated the assistance of the World Bank in improving its
project progress reports. SNRDA enjoyed a good working relationship with its outside
partners (World Bank/UNDP/ILO), who, moreover, were very sensitive to the
difficulties encountered in project implementation.
81.   SNRDA feels that Bank supervision missions should take the necessary timne to
study the specific problems encountered by the project both at headquarters and in the
regions; unfortunately, owing to security considerations, such assistance was not always
possible.



21
D.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Project Cost and Financing
82.   The project cofinanced by IDA (US$12.4 million), UNDP (US$3.6 million)
and the Zairian Government (US$1.8 million), was expected to cost US$17.8 million.
In point of fact, IDA and UNDP did make their contributions, unlike the Government
was unable to provide its counterpart funds for the project on time.
83.   Actual disbursements over the three years of project implementation accounted
for only 25% of initial estimates, as follows:
* IDA             :      US$2,989,837
* UNDP            :      US$1,254,061
* Government       :     US$  300000
TOTAL              :     US$4,543,898
84.   With regard to IDA, disbursements exceeded projections by 25% for the
operational period of the project. Significantly, for some time after credit effectiveness
(May 1991) Zaire was mired in instability that was characterized by looting and rioting,
along with extensive disarray in the banking system which has not yet been remedied.
This deplorable situation virtually single-handedly caused a marked reduction in the
size of the project and, consequently, in related disbursements.
85.   UNDP utilized a maximum  of its resources (33%), even though certain
specialists and local consultants, as well as training instructors were not recruited as
initially planned. Over the three-year period, 45% of planned resources were used.
Nevertheless, we are pleased with the continuation--even on a very reduced scale--of
UNDP financing through several project actions.
86.   With regard to the Government, the funds allocated to the SNRDA budget
(including project counterpart) were subject to continuous devaluations (particularly
against the US dollar) throughout the project implementation period; the initial value
eroded steadily as the funds remained frozen in the account. Even when credited, the
account in zaires did not provide sufficient cash flow from as early as the second year
of project implementation, until closing.
The petroleum tax that was eliminated in 1990 left SNRDA without a steady
source of funding. This was one of SNRDA's major handicaps in the monitoring and
supervision of field activities.



22
Disbursements by Project Sub-Component
87.   The following table shows disbursements by project sub-component; the data
can be used to compare projected and actual disbursements.
A.    IDA                                 PROJECTED                 ACTUAL
(in US dollars)
- Civil works                                10,155,000             1,119,517
- Pilot actions                                720,000                 60,374
- Technical Assistance                         745,000                182,191
- SNRDA equipment and supplies                 380,000              1,613,580
- Study fund                                   400,000                             l
- Amount to be repaid by SNRDA                     --                  12,175
- Amount to be justified (special account balance)  --                  2,000
Subtotal A                                   12,400,000             2,989,837
B.    UNDP
- Technical Assistance                        1,771,600               639,977
- Studies606,000                                91,838
- Training                                     770,000                197,792
- Equipment                                    548,600                324,454
Subtotal B                                   3,696,200              1,254,061
C.    Government
- Maintenance works                           1,385,000               200,000
- SNRDA supervision                            235,000                 70,000
- Training (15 instructors)                    180,000                 30,000
Subtotal C                                   1,800,000                300,000
GRAND TOTAL                                  17,896,200             4,543,898
88.   In general, the works that were carried out were substantially below projections
and targets.  Of total contracts valued at US$3,024,151, for rehabilitation and
construction works concluded under the three components of the project, contracts
actually carried out amounted to only US$1,117,867 (37% of the total).
89.   With regard to the pilot actions, of total contracts concluded for US$71,590,
84% were executed, amounting to US$60,374.
90.   The absence, during most of the project, of both a senior technical advisor
recruited by the ILO, and a specialist in financial management who was to be financed
by IDA, had an impact on the estimates for technical assistance.
91.   SNRDA equipment (vehicles, supplies and spare parts) financed by IDA was
virtually all acquired. The amount envisaged in the Credit Agreement, category 2
(SDRl, 192,00) was taken into account.



23
92.   The study funds provided for in the IDA budget were not used for obvious
reasons. The studies on the socioeconomic impact and the construction of the Piopio
bridge, as well as the drafting of the specifications for the feeder road-spanning works
in conjunction with local consultants, were the only studies undertaken by UNDP,
under this component of the project.
93.   The performance of the training program was relatively satisfactory, given the
number of people trained in three years ( 600). As in the past, UNDP continues to
train SNRDA staff and managers.
94.   Owing to difficulties of many types (disarray of the banking system, cash flow
difficulties, lack of financing, etc.), SNRDA was unable to exercise its functions as
supervisor and auditor. This accounts for the disappointing figures in the foregoing
table.
Use of Bank Funds
95.   The portion of disbursements drawn from the credit account in Washington and
the special account in Zaire amounted to 54.6% and 46.4%, respectively.
96.   SNRDA considers that it managed the funds deposited by IDA in the special
account judiciously, in strict compliance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Nevertheless, at the closing date of the credit, the account was as follows:
A.   Amount to be Justified
Account balance at June 30, 1994  -                US$32.88
-    Amount to be documented for the account          US$1.960.88
* US$1,310 Charges for bank transfers
* US$ 650 Payments for works (pilot actions)
(1)   Total to be justified                     US$1,982.88
B.    Amount to be Repaid
-     Replacement of ticket and traveler's
checks lost in Washington by an SNRDA
higher-level staff                               US$ 3,500
-     March 1993 supervision mission                    US$ 2,675
-     October/November 1993 supervision mission         US$ 6.000
(2)   Total to be repaid                         US$12,175
TOTAL (1) + (2)                              US$ 14.167.88



24
97.   The disbursement requests sent to the Bank were limited essentially to the
financing of contracts for equipment (US$1,276,763), fees for expert services
(US$138,341) and several payments under the larger works contracts (US$216,868).
Audits
98.   In accordance with Section 4.01 (b) and (c) of the Credit Agreement, audits
were made for fiscal 1991 and 1992.  Satisfactory opinions were issued for the
expenditures made by SNRDA with regard to disbursements under the credit during
those periods.
99.   SNRDA will be able to order the audit for fiscal 1993 when the funds become
available.
Conclusions
100.  As road infrastructure is a driving force in the development of a country, the
pilot project to rehabilitate feeder roads in Zaire remains relevant. Its objectives were a
good fit with Zaire's visions for the future.
101.  However, owing to the socioeconomic problems experienced by Zaire during
the period of its political adjustment, it was not possible to implement the pilot project
effectively.  An organizational breakdown in SNRDA, the Government's project
executing agency, resulted in the unsatisfactory results that have been observed and
give the impression that the project's objectives were overly ambitious.
102.  The Government must seek the financing necessary to continue the project,
which should be modified with a view to sustaining and realizing maximum returns on
its achievements and on the ongoing actions financed by UNDP.



- 25 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan/Credit                                     Year of           Status\Comments
Number                                       Approval
Loan 184-BE     Highway Project - New highway      1957     Satisfactorily completed.
construction, improvements to
prepare for mechanized
maintenance of feeder roads.
Loan 251 -BE    Transport Project - Construction   1960     Most of the loan was canceled due
and improvement of feeder roads,           to prevailing political conditions.
ferries and bridges.
Cr. 152-CK      Technical Asst. Highway Adm.       1969     Completed in 1976 (PPAR in
Project.                                    1978). Partially successful. Did
not achieve the expected results.
Cr. 292-CK      Second Highway Project -           1972     Completed in 1979 (PPAR in
Institution building, maintenance           1983). Partially successful project.
and rehabilitation of highway
system.
Cr. 536-ZR      Third Highway Project.            1975      Completed in 1980 (PPAR in
(id)                           1983). Successful completion of
main components, in particular
regional maintenance.
Cr. 916-ZR      Fourth Highway Project.           1979      Satisfactorily completed in 1983.
(id)
Cr. 1264-ZR     Second Cotton Rehabilitation.     1982      Credit closed in 1989. Project
experienced major problems.
Cr. 1290-ZR     Fifth Highway Project -           1982      Completed in 1987. Overall
Institution building, maintenance           physical objectives were fairly well
and rehabilitation of highway               achieved.
system.
Cr. 1540-ZR     Lulua Agricultural Development    1985      Closed in 1992. Project's results
were modest / good.
Cr. 1608-ZR     Sixth Highway Project -            1985     Closed in 1993. Despite initial
Institution building, maintenance           problems, Project was generally
and rehabilitation of highway               successful.
system.
Cr. 1790-ZR     South Shaba Agricultural           1987     Closed in 1993. Project
Development                                 experienced major problems.
Cr. 2096-ZR     Pilot Extension Project           1990      Closed in 1990. Project performed
well.
Cr. 2292-ZR     National Agricultural Research    1991      Closed in 1993. Implementation
Project.                                    period too short to pass judgment
on Project.



- 26 -
2. Project Timetable
Item             Timetable         Revised Date        Actual Date
Identification       September 1986            -             September 1986
Preparation           1988 and 1989             -            1988 and 1989
Appraisal Mission       July 1989           July 1989          July 1989
October 1989       October 1989
Feb./Mar 1990
Credit Negotiations     May 1990                               May 1990
Board Approval           9/11/90                                9/11/90
Credit Signature        10/04/90       __10/04/90
Credit Effectiveness     1/04/91             4/03/91            5/03/91
Credit Closing          12/31/97                                 1/25/94
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year           1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
Appraisal Estimate         1.2   2.2   4.3   7.0   9.5   11.3  12.3  12.4
Actual                     0.1   1.2   3.0   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.]
Actual as % of Estimate    8%    55%   70%   44%   33%   27%   25%   25%
Note: Expressed in SDRs, disbursements represent only 23.5% of the SDR9.6 million
credit.



- 27 -
-27-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4. Project Implementation
Indicators                                       Actual or PCR Estimate
(with planned date if applicable)                         (up to or as of 12/31/1993)
Institutional Strengthening
I Model contracts (by 12/1990)                          1. Done in 1991
2. Progress reporting system (by 12/1990)               2. Although a lot of useful work has been done, the task has
not been completed.
3. Technical specifications (by 6/1991)                3. Partly done.
4. Maintenance instructions (by 6/1991)                 4. A Manual has been prepared.
5. Management Manual (by 6/1991)                        5. A Manual has been prepared for the use of the local
committees for rehabilitation and maintenance (CLER).
6. Computerized financial management systems (by 3/1991)   6. Not done (but TORs for consulting assignment have been
prepared).
Road Works (by 6/30/97)
I. Zones of activity 21                                                          10
2. Rehabilitation: 300 km                                                        33 kin
3. Grading: 1,360 km                                                            182 km
4. Routine Maintenance: 7,360 km                                                247 km
5. Bridge and culverts reconstruction and repairs: 440                          195
6. Renewal of ferries: 3                                                          0
Pilot Actions:
I Embankment protection or protection against erosion;  1. Studies and tests done (gabions), but not enough time to
implement on a larger scale;
2. Usc of wood for bridge construction;                 2. Work on 2 bridges was started but not completed (for one
bridge, site is questionable and work is not of good quality);
3. Actions to test labor-based maintenance and to compare  3. Not done, except that subjects were included in some of
different types of light equipment;                    the training;
4 Cost recovery actions;                                4. Two experiments in Kivu with NGOs - TORs for study
prepared in August 1993;
5. Road signing and traffic regulations measures.       5. Not done.
Monitoring and Evaluation, through pre- and post-activities   Pre-activities surveys of impact studies carried out for
surveys, reporting of selected data and data processing.  regions of Equateur and Shaba.
Training:
I The training program included theoretical training,   1. A substantial training program has been carried out over a
practical training and seminars, covering technical,   three-year period (1991-1993), with the following numbers
managerial and financial aspects (but the SAR did not include  of people trained:
any estimate of the number of staff of SNRDA and of         - 527 members of CLERs;
executing agencies/contractors to be trained).              - 53 work inspectors and foremen of executing agencies
and collectivities;
- 10 staff of SNRDA (computing);
- 16 SNRDA staff (procurement, and planning, control
and monitoring);
- 3 regional coordinators, 4 work inspectors and 2 work
controllers of SNRDA (management of feeder roads);
- 15 who attended seminars on various subjects.
2  T o carry out the training program, the Project had made  2. Training specialist (ILO expert) remained in country
provision for the following experts and staff:          through most of implementation period. SNRDA assigned a
- I training expert - for 48 months                counterpart to ILO expert (1991), and recruited two training
- 2 training assistants - for 48 months each       assistants (1991) and five local instructors (1992-1993).
- 1 5 training instructors- for 48 months each
- junior engineers - a total of 240 man/months



- 28 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Adjusted    Actual or
Item                         Appraisal      PCR
Estimate*    Estimate
Institutional Strengthening:
- Technical Assistance                                 2.5         0.8
- Study Fund                                           0.4
- Training                                             1.0         0.3
- Equipment for SNRDA                                  0.9         2.0
Total Institutional Strengthening                      4.8          3.1
Works on Feeder Roads, including pilot operations     12 5          1 5
Monitoring/Evaluation of Impact                       0.6          0.1
Total Project Costs                                   17.9         4.7
* The SAR estimates of project costs and financing plan have been adjusted and
increased from US$17.5 million to US$17.9 million to take into account the increase in
the UNDP contribution from US$3.3 million to US$3.7 million.
B. Project Financing Plan
(in US$ Million and %)
Source             Adjusted Appraisal      Actual or PCR Estimate
Estimate
IDA                            12.4   69%                3.1   66%.
UNDP                            3.7   21%                1.3   28%
Government                      1.8   10%                0.3    6%
Total                          17.9  100%                4.7  100%.



- 29 -
6. Project Results
Indicators            Appraisal Estimates                PCR Estimates
(As of, or for period ended 12/31/1997)   (Most recent information
available)
Economic      Between 12% and 33%                     Since    no      ex-post
rates of return                                       collection of data took
place for the project sites,
no direct measure of the
impact and benefits of
feeder road construction
is available.
Impact        First phase of setting up a monitoring and  Not achieved.  Ex ante
Evaluation    evaluation system of the long-term effects  surveys were not properly
of feeder road development.             carried  out, and  there
were no ex post surveys.
Institutional   Development of systems for programming, Not achieved, for lack of
Strengthening  subcontracting, supervision and payments logistics and  because of
for works, and for the monitoring of the   collapse   of  the
rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder banking system; most of
roads.                                 the staff that have been
trained  are  no  longer
_____________                               working for SNRDA.
Road works   See Table 4 on "Project Implementation"    See Table 4
Pilot Actions   See Table 4 on "Project Implementation"   See Table 4



7. Status of Covenants
Section in                                                  Deadline
Credit                       Subject                         for                          Status
Agreement                                                   Compliance
2.02 (b)   Operation of Special Account                   Continuous  Satisfactory, except that about US$2,000 remain
undocumented.
3.01     Borrower's commitment to objectives of the Project;  Continuous  Government did not provide, promptly as needed,
Borrower to carry out Project with due diligence and        funds required for the Project. Because of that, and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate          of the pilferage of vehicles and equipment during the
financial, economic, administrative and engineering         disturbances, SNRDA could not carry out the Project
practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the          with due diligence and efficiency.
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
3.02     Procurement of goods, works and consultants' Continuous  Generally satisfactory; however, some of the civil
services to be governed by the provisions of                works contracts that were supposed to be awarded
Schedule 4 to the Credit Agreement.                         on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, were awarded on the basis of a "points"
system that did not include price.
3.03     (i) By November 1 of each year, Borrower to furnish  November 1  (i) SNRDA furnished annual work programs and
to IDA for its approval its proposed annual work  of each year  budgets for 1991 (which was a condition of credit
program and budget for the Project for the coming           effectiveness) and 1993, but not for 1992 and 1994.
year, and to exchange views with IDA  on the                  Exchange of views on cost recovery not complied
progress made and on further steps required in the          with.
establishment of decentralized mechanisms for cost
recovery,
(ii) in no event shall the amount of the Borrower's  Continuous  (ii) Not complied with since the beginning of the
own funds   allocated annually for feeder road              Project.  SNRDA received US$1,440,000 in 1992
rehabilitation and maintenance be less than US$5.3          and US$150,000 in 1993.
[million equivalent in terms of January 1990 dollars.  I_I



7. Status of Covenants (continued)
Section in                                                    Deadline
Credit                        Subject                          for                           Status
Agreement_                                                   Compliance
3.04     Borrower and IDA to carry out a mnid-term review on   November  Not carried out, since by late 1993 it appeared that
progress of Project and exchange views on any       1993      the IDA Credit would most likely be closed.
required corrective measures.
4.01(a)    Borrower to maintain project accounts.           Continuous  Unsatisfactory.   Accounts have been  kept by
expenditure category of the IDA credit, and not by
project component (in the same format as in the
SAR) including financing from all sources.
4.01 (b) and  Borrower to have project accounts audited annually,  June 30 of  Audits (of mainly the proceeds of the IDA credit)
(c)     with audit report submitted not later than six months   each year   have been carried out and reports subrmitted as
after the end of the year.                                   follows:
- for 1991: on August 31, 1992
- for 1992: on July 22, 1993.
- for 1993: ( audit to be undertaken when financing
becomes available).
Section in                                                    Deadline                         Status
General                        Subject                          for
Conditions                                                   Compliance
9.06     Periodic Progress Reports                         Continuous  Satisfactory. Quarterly Progress Reports have been
._____________________________________________  submitted rather regularly without too much delays.
9.06     Completion Report                                             Part II and comments on Part I and III of PCR have
I ____________________________I_____________     ___________  been   subm itted   in   July    1994.



7. Status of Covenants (continued)
Supplemental  (i) Road selection criteria and role of the Regional  Continuous  (i) Generally not complied with. The demonstrated
letter referring  Road Committees (CRRs);                                  willingness  of inhabitants  and  authorities  to
to sections                                                              participate financially or in kind does not seem to
3.03 and 3.04                                                              have been the priority criteria for selection, and
and Schedule                                                               cost/benefit calculations were not carried out. There
2 of Credit                                                              is no information available on the role actually played
Agreement.                                                                by the Regional Road Committees (CRRs).
(ii) Objectives and principles of the cost recovery  Continuous  (ii) Not really implemented. No provision was made
mechanisms,                                                 for incentives to encourage regions to set up cost
recovery mechanisms, and no report submitted by
November 30 of each year.  No detailed review
(planned for the mid-term review) was carried out.
Terms of reference of a study were prepared.
(iii) Objectives of the mid-term review;        November  (iii) Did not apply because of early closing of IDA
1993     Credit.
(iv) Terms of reference for the impact evaluation, and  Continuous  (iv) Ex-ante surveys were carried out for 2 regions
by a local consulting firm, but no agreement was
reached between Government and IDA on
parameters to be measured, the minimum volume of
data to be gathered and the mechanics of gathering
them. No ex-post surveys.
(v) Technical assistance and training.          Continuous  (v) Mostly for reasons that were not SNRDA's fault,
the technical assistance team at SNRDA was never
complete; in particular there has been no qualified
and experienced financial management expert (to be
I financed by IDA).



- 33 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (in staff-weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual
Through Appraisal                                            5.0
Appraisal Through Board Approval                            37.7
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                         3.2
Supervision                                                34.3
Total                                                       80.2
Note: The figures for the various stages through board approval are low because
they do not include the staff-weeks spent on the UNDP project and when the
Project was originally prepared and first appraised as a component of the Social
Sector Project. The figures also underestimate the time spent for supervision to
the extent that they do not include consultants financed by trust funds.
B. Missions
Stage of    Month/  No. of   Days  Specialization   Perfor-   Types of
Project Cycle   Year   Persons   in    represented    mance   Problems
_____________   _______   ___ __  Field       Rating
Through
Appraisal    _                                         _        _ __
Identification   7/85      5      N/A   Eng ,Eco.          n/a        n/a
Preparation     10/85       1       7    Eng.              n/a        n/a
Preparation      1/86      2        9    Eng.,Eco.          n/a       n/a
Preparation      1/87      2        5    Eng.,Eco.         n/a        n/a
Preparation      2/88      2        3    Eng. ,Eco         n/a        n/a
Preparation     10/88      3        9    Eng., Fin., Res.    n/a      n/a
Preparation      2/89      1        5    Eng.              n/a        n/a
Appraisal        7/89      2             Eng.              n/a        n/a
Follow-up       10/89      2             Eng.              n/a        n/a
Follow-up       2-3/90     4             Eng.,Agr., Res.    n/a       n/a
Board
Approval
Through
Effectiveness
Supervision 1    6/90      2       12   Eng., Res.         not        not
available  available
Supervision 2   11/90      2       20   Eng., Res.         not        not
available  available
Supervision 3    2-3/91    2       16   Eng.                1         n/a



- 34 -
B. Missions (continued)
Stage of    Month/  No. of   Days   Specialization   Perfor-   Types of
Project Cycle   Year   Persons   in      Represented   mance   Problems
Field                  Rating
Supervision
Supervision 4    6-7/91    2       12   Eng., Res.         2     AOF,FP
Supervision 5   2/92       2       1    Eng., Res.
Supervision 6    5/92      4       14   Eco., Eng.,        2     AOF
Fin.,Res.
Supervision 7   10/92      4       15   Eco., Eng.,        2     PDO,PMP
Fin., Res.              CWLC,
AOF,FP
Supervision 8    3/93      3       2    Eco., Fin., Res.   3     AOF,TAP
Supervision 9    10-       3       16   Eco., Eng., Fin.    3    PDO,AOF,
11/93                                            TAP
Specialization Represented:           Type of Problem:
Eng. = Engineer;                      PDO = Project Development Objectives
Eco. = Economist;                     CWLC = Compliance With Legal
Fin. = Financial Analyst;             Covenants
Res. = Research Assistant,            PMP = Project Management Performance
Agr. = Agricultural Officer.          AOF = Availability Of Funds
TAP = Technical Assistance Progress
FP = Financial Performance



