Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2178 ZR
                   (Pilot Feeder Roads Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated October 4, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2178 ZR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1990, between the REPUBLIC OF
ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association):
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to receive from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $3,300,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into
among the Borrower, the UNDP and an Executing Agency; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Deve-
lopment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Ministry" means the ministry of the Borrower
responsible for feeder roads;
      (b)   "Feeder Roads Service" means the National Agricultural
Feeder Roads Service (SNRDA) of the Ministry;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated September 20, 1990 and October 1,
1990 between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 9,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
financial institution acceptable to the Association on  terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate
protections against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
Page  3
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15,
commencing October 15, 2000 and ending April 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, economic, administrative and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project,
including all information and data required for the evaluation
activities included in Part C.2 of the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. By November 1 in each year during the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its approval its proposed annual work program and budget for the
Project for the coming year and shall exchange views with the
Association on the progress made and on further steps required in
the establishment of decentralized mechanisms for cost recovery; in
no event shall the amount of the Borrower's own funds allocated
annually for feeder roads rehabilitation and maintenance be less
than the equivalent of $5.3 million in terms of January 1990
dollars.
      Section 3.04. By November 1993, the Borrower and the
Association shall carry out a mid-term review of the progress of the
Project and shall exchange views on any corrective measures which
may be required.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower and of any subcontractor, responsible for
the carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account, audited for each fiscal
                   year in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year,
                   certified copies of the report of such audits by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audits thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
Page  5
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts be
                   included in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   reports of such audits contain separate opinions
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:
      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
            (i)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                   have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                   whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
                   or
           (ii)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the utilization by the
Borrower of the UNDP Grant have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
      (b)   arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been
entered into between the Feeder Roads Service and the Office des
Routes for the utilization in the carrying out of the Project of the
zone engineers and training facilities of such Office; and
Page  6
      (c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association its first
annual work program and budget for the carrying out of the Project,
covering the period ending December 31, 1991, and such program has
been found satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre des Finances
            Bocte Postale 12997
            Kinshasa 1
            Republic of Zaire
            Cable address:                     Telex:
                   DENFIN                        21162 KIN GOMBE
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                   INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT)
                   Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                         By /s/ Tatanene Manata
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                           Africa
Page  7
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit
                               Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                5,140,000      100%
(2)   Equipment,                 1,920,000      100%
      vehicles, spare
      parts, materials,
      supplies
(3)   Experts' services            620,000      100%
(4)   Refunding of                 230,000      Amount due pur-
      Project Preparation                       suant to Section
      Advance                                   2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)   Unallocated                1,690,000
          TOTAL                  9,600,000
                                 =========
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to test and evaluate
alternative methods for the rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder
roads, strengthen the institutional framework necessary for the
purpose, promote the development of local capacity to carry out the
works and develop the necessary financial mechanisms.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:    Institutional strengthening, Studies, Training
1.    Strengthening the capabilities of the Feeder Roads Service and
of the entities charged with carrying out the Project through the
development of systems for programming, subcontracting, supervision
and payments for works, and for the monitoring of rehabilitation and
maintenance of feeder roads, centered on the pilot roads network
identified under Part B of the Project;
2.    Conducting technical studies for the preparation and
monitoring of the work programs; and
3.    Theoretical and practical training of the staff of the Feeder
Roads Service and of the entities charged with carrying out the
Project, in technical matters and in technical, administrative and
financial management.
PART B.    Four-year program of road works
Page  8
1.    Rehabilitation of about 70 km and grading of about 700 km of
roads, repair and reconstruction of about 180 bridges and culverts,
renewal of three ferries and routine maintenance of about 2,500 km
of roads, all in the perimeters of operations of the Codenor and La
Cotonnicre cotton companies;
2.    Rehabilitation of about 90 km, grading of about 300 km and
routine maintenance, including spot improvement, of about 1,260 km
of roads in the perimeters of operations of CDI Bwamanda in the
Equateur Region; and
3.    Rehabilitation of about 140 km and grading of about 360 km of
roads, repair and reconstruction of about 260 bridges and
maintenance of about 3,600 km of roads, in the areas included in the
Pilot Extension Project (Credit No. 2096 ZR) and other agricultural
development projects.
PART C:   Monitoring and Evaluation
1.    Carrying out of the first phase of a long-term program of
monitoring and evaluation of the effects of rural roads improvements
on the environment, social and economic conditions, agricultural
activities and traffic volumes of rural roads, including:
      (a)   pre- and post-activities surveys;
      (b)   systematic reporting of selected data following a format
recommended by the experts carrying out the pre-activities surveys;
and
      (c)   data processing.
PART D:   Research and development activities
      Carrying out of activities designed to minimize potential
negative impact on the environment and to test sustainable methods
of rehabilitation, maintenance and cost-recovery, including
activities:
1.    to improve the durability of roads through the consolidation
of surfaces and protection of embankments and erosion of slopes;
2.    to promote the use of locally available materials and wood for
bridge and culvert construction and repair;
3.    to compare and test the efficiency of labor-based maintenance
and the use of different types of light equipment and hand tools
under varying conditions in different parts of the country; and
4.    to test the feasibility of cost-recovery mechanisms through
the establishment of road-user charges.
                             * * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  9
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                 for deposits into the Special Account at such
                 intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                 documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                 paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                 withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                 the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                 by said documents and other evidence to have been
                 paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                 expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Page  10
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                           SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Services
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B of this Schedule, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    All works included in the Project shall be carried out under
contract; except as provided in the following paragraph 2, contracts
for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, including
construction and repair of bridges and culverts, contracts for the
rehabilitation of ferries and contracts for labor-based works and
for the Pilot Activities included in Part D of the Project, may be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.    Procurement of contracts for the works described in the
foregoing paragraph 1, which cannot be carried out through
competitive bidding because of the existence of fewer than three
potential qualified contractors, shall be conducted by the Feeder
Roads Service on the basis of contracts satisfactory to the
Association negotiated directly with Codenor, La Cotonnicre, CDI
Page  11
Bwamanda, small businesses, non-governmental organizations or
communities.
3.    Equipment, vehicles, spare parts and supplies which, after
grouping, are estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000,
may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertized
locally as described in paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines, provided
that without the prior approval of the Association the aggregate
value of items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
$200,000.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Contracts procured as described in paragraph B.1 and B.2 above
shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraphs 1 or 2 (a), the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Experts' Services
      In order to assist the Borrower in maintaining the accounts
required under Section 4.01 of this Agreement and in carrying out
the studies included in Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ a qualified and experienced financial expert and technical
experts acceptable to the Association, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, selected in accordance with the
principles and procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
