Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3133-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TI
April 2, 1981
Transportation, Water and Telecommunications Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0   =   T Sh 8.3
T Shl   =   US$0.120
:FISCAL YEAR
Government:  July 1 - June 30
TPTC      : January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THE REPORT
Carrier     -  A system of providing a number of circuits over one radio
link, coaxial cable, or a pair of wires
Channel     -  One circuit of a carrier system carrying speech or tele-
graph signals
DELs        -  Direct exchange lines
EAPTC       -  East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation--an
autonomous government-owned public corporation responsible
for the operation of all public services in the telecommuni-
cations sector in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.  The corpora-
tion has now ceased to operate with the break up of the East
African Community.
HF/UHF/VHF  -  High frequency radio up to 30 MHz; ultra high frequency
radio beyond 300 MHz; and very high frequency radio between
30 MHz and 300 MHz
TPTC        -  Tanzania Posts;and Telecommunications Corporation--an
autonomous government-owned public corporation responsible
for the opetation of all public services in the telecommuni-
cations sector
MHz         -  Megahertz
Microwave   - A wavelength term normally applied to systems working
at frequencies:above 1,000 MHz.
Multiplex   -  Part of the equipment.in a carrier system--see above
Telex       -  Telegraph exchange service for subscribers'
TAC         -  Tanzania Audit Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ...............................        1
Background and Organization.                                         1
Access to and Usage of Service.                                      2
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities.                          3
Demand for Service.                                                  4
Sector Goals.                                                        5
Sector Constraints.                                                  7
Bank Group Role.                                                     8
II. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT.                                          8
The Plan and the Program.                                            8
Project Concept.                                                     9
The Project.                                                         9
Project Costs .11
Contingencies .12
Project Financing ...........................................    13
Procurement ..............  13
Disbursements .................       ,       .....                 13
Project Implementation .14
Performance Indicators and Monitoring .15
III.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...........................................       15
Telecommunications and Economic Development .                       15
The Distribution of Benefits ................................       16
Tariff Policies .18
Least Cost Solution .19
Return on Investment .20
Risks ...,.... 20
Environmental and Health Aspects .20
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited
Tanzania in April/May 1980, comprising Messrs. D. Lomax and H. Ruud, TWTTL.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.    THE  IMPLEMENTING  AGENCY  .....................................                                                                                                  21
Organization   ................................................                                                                                              21
Management  and  Control   ......................................                                                                                            21
Staff  and  Training   ..........................................                                                                                            21
Accounting  and  Budgeting  ....................................                                                                                             22
Billing  and  Collection   ......................................                                                                                            23
Audit    .......................................................                                                                                             23
V.    FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS   ..........................................                                                                                                24
Postal  Operations   ...........................................                                                                                             24
Past  Financial  Performances  .................................                                                                                             25
Present  Financial  Position  ..................................                                                                                             25
Valuation  of  Assets   .........................................                                                                                            26
Financing  Plan   ..............................................                                                                                             27
Future  Financial  Performance  ................................                                                                                             28
VI.    RECONMENDATIONS   .............................................                                                                                                   29



LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
Page No.
1.  International Telephone Statistics ........................         30
2.  Existing Facilities as of December 31, 1979 ....       ...........  31
3.  Description of Works in TPTC's Program, 1980-84 ....     .......    32
4.  Program and Project Costs .................................         35
5.  Schedule of Disbursements .................................         36
6.  Implementation Schedule ...................................         37
7.  Performance Indicators ....................................         38
8.  Schedule of Telecommunications Tariffs and Charges                  39
9.  Study of Tariff Structure - Draft Terms of Reference                42
10. Return on Investment .45
11. Organization Chart .47
12.  Profit and Loss Accounts ..................................         48
13.  Estimated Source and Application of Funds .50
14. Balance Sheets .51
15.  Documents and Data Available in Project File .53
Map - IBRD 15091



I. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
1.01      Tanzania has a land area of about 945,000 square kilometers, a
large part of which is high, arid plateau.  The population of approximately
17.5 million (1978) increases by about 3% per annum.  Five percent of the
total population live in Dar-es-Salaam and five percent in the twenty other
biggest urban centers; the rural population, making up the major part or
about 90% of the total, is well spread over the territory, with higher
densities near the three main Indian Ocean ports of Dar-es-Salaam, Tanga,
and Mtwara, and in the Lake Victoria area, the highlands around Kilimanjaro,
and the southern highlands near Lake Nyasa.  Per capita GNP for 1979 is
estimated at US$230. About 90% of the active population is engaged in agri-
culture, which accounts for about 50% of GDP and 80% of export earnings
(mainly cotton, coffee, sisal, tobacco, and cashew nuts). The small but
growing industrial sector includes textile and sugar mills, tobacco process-
ing, two cement factories, an oil refinery, and diverse other small plants.
Government has been trying hard to increase the country's agricultural
production, both food crops and export crops, and to create additional
employment opportunities. The efforts during the last decade have focused
on measures to organize the rural population (in villages, districts, and
regions), to accelerate its social development, and to decentralize develop-
ment action responsibility, to the district level in particular. Further-
more, collective and cooperative farming and the establishment of small-
scale industries are being encouraged. However, scant access to telecom-
munications services, poor road conditions, and limited transport facilities
impair government efforts, slow down the impact of any administrative and
social reforms, and make very difficult the marketing of agricultural
products and the timely delivery of agricultural inputs. The country's
economic development has also been constrained by a serious foreign exchange
shortage, caused by a need to import foodstuff during years of serious
drought (mainly 1973 and 1974), as well as by the more recent war in Uganda.
1.02      With the breakup of the East African Community (EAC), including
the East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (EAPTC), the
Government of Tanzania established in 1977 the Tanzania Posts and Telecom-
munications Corporation (TPTC), which is an autonomous government-owned
corporation under the Ministry of Communications and Transport. In addition
to its handling the postal services of the country, TPTC is responsible for
the establishment, expansion, operation, and maintenance of all local,
national and international telecommunications services. (Annex 11 shows the
organizational setup of TPTC.) In addition to the military organizations,
the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Aerodromes Department operate, under
licenses issued by TPTC, some telecommunications services for their
administrative needs. Private users can operate point-to-point telecom-
munications services after obtaining a license from TPTC. These licenses
are issued only when TPTC is not in a position to provide such services
adequately; they are renewed on an annual basis. Tariffs for telecommuni-
cations services are fixed by the Minister of Communications and Transport



- 2 -
upon recommendation by TPTC. With a sufficient separation between the
postal services and the telecommunications services being provided for
(para. 4.02), the telecommunications services are adequately organized.
Furthermore, there is no fragmentation in the responsibility for handling
of the telecommunications monopoly, as this is clearly assigned to TPTC
by the legislation. The country has no industry of significance for the
manufacture of telecommunications materials and equipment.
Access to and Usage of Service
1.03      In Tanzania, the number of direct telephone exchange lines in
service (DELs) per 100 population, about 0.21, is among the lowest in the
world. For Africa as a whole, except for the Republic of South Africa, the
corresponding average figure is 0.4; for Asia, except for Japan and the
People's Republic of China, it is 0.9; for Latin America 3.2 and for
North America 32. (Comparisons of telephone densities among countries are
presented in Annex 1.) Forty-four percent of the DELs of Tanzania are in
Dar-es-Salaam, with five percent of the population, which makes 1.8 DELs
per 100 inhabitants there. Another 42% of the DELs are installed in the
other regional capitals, making the average telephone density there about
1.4 DELs per 100 inhabitants. This leaves 14% of the DELs for the rural
areas with 90% of the population, making an average density of only 0.04
DELs per 100 inhabitants in the vast countryside, including district and
other development centers. All the regional capitals (20 on the mainland
and 5 on Zanzibar with Pemba) have some telephone service, but about one-
fourth of those district centers which are not co-located with regional
capitals are not yet satisfactorily connected to the telecommunications
network. About 60 other towns have manual telephone service of varying
quality and, in addition, about 200 remote places are equipped with radio
call service, 1/ but most towns and villages have no access to telecommu-
nications facilities.
1.04      No precise figures are available in regard to categories of
subscribers or users. However, it is known that 60% of telecommunications
revenues comes from government users, including the parastatal entities.
This category dominates the number of subscribers in the regions outside
the capital city, whereas private business and residential subscribers
amount to nearly one-half of the total number in Dar-es-Salaam. It is
also known that very few telephones are used solely for residential pur-
poses.  Due to the prevailing shortage of lines, a telephone is normally
used mostly for business transactions, even when it is installed in a
residence. The fact that business communications make up a big portion of
the total traffic is reflected in pronounced peaks in the traffic load of
both local and long distance facilities during working hours. The number
of pairs for telephone connections available in local cable networks and
1/ A shortwave radio facility for emergency and specialized purposes
but unsuitable for public communications.



- 3 -
particularly in the Dar-es-Salaam network is almost exhausted. This is the
main reason for the high number of telephones connected to the same line
(2.3 as an average for the whole country), which is detrimental to good
service in a network of the Tanzanian type, as is also the fact that many
of the exchange equipment have no more available lines. The high degree of
utilization of the available facilities leaves little flexibility for new
connections and has hampered growth during the last two to three years.
However, for the lines that can be connected, TPTC has an allocation system
which gives priority to essential services and works satisfactorily.
By modifications in the tariff structure, price considerations should to some
extent make the allocation to priority services automatic in the future (see
para. 3.11).
1.05      Eighty-two percent of the total number of telephones in the country
are connected to local automatic exchanges, the rest to manual exchanges.
Ninety-five percent of the local traffic and ninety-four percent of the inter-
urban traffic is automatic. The manual local exchanges have the following
opening hours:
less than 25 subscribers:   8 hours a day
25 to 60 subscribers    : 12 hours a day
60 or more subscribers  : 24 hours a day.
The international telephone traffic is operator-handled, except for the
traffic to Kenya and Uganda, which is operated and charged in the same
manner as are inland calls. Most of the international telephone traffic
and telex traffic (except for Kenya and Uganda) is routed via a satellite
earth station, operating since September 1979 in the INTELSAT system and
giving fully satisfactory service. Telephone satellite circuits have thus
been established with Italy, United Kingdom, Japan and Seychelles, and
telex circuits with Italy and the United Kingdom. HF circuits, having
limited working hours and giving less than satisfactory service, are
operating between Tanzania and Burundi, Zambia and Mozambique, for tele-
phone traffic, and between Tanzania and Mozambique, United Kingdom and
Zambia, for telegraph traffic.
1.06      There are 426 telex subscribers in the country, of which 110 are
outside Dar-es-Salaam. The latter are connected to either of the two telex
exchanges in Arusha and in Dar-es-Salaam. Of the regional capitals, 15 have
telex subscribers, and in these places TPTC uses teleprinters connected to
the telex network for telegram transmission.
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
1.07      Due to a much heavier demand for services than the network was
designed to handle, the local telephone exchanges, the interurban exchanges,
and the long distance transmission lines are all heavily congested during
daytime. Many of the transmission lines are frequently out of order for lack
of spare parts or inadequate maintenance, whereby the number of available
channels is constantly reduced below the nominal number and the congestion
problem is further aggravated. The high number of telephones per DEL (see



-4-
para. 1.04) also contributes to the problem. In reality the congestion
makes it difficult for a client to gain access to the telephone network and
to complete calls from about 9:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. during working days.
Thus it is not unusual that, during this period, dialing tone is obtained
in Dar-es-Salaam only after ten or more attempts and that a direct dialed
long distance communication can only be completed after hours of trial.
Sample studies show that only 5.5% of call attempts are successful. More
than 70% of long distance call attempts, made during any time of day and
night, are not completed due to equipment or circuits being congested, and
24% due to called subscriber station being busy (which in many cases is
due to him being engaged in trying to make another call). Waiting time
for manually connected long distance calls amounts in most cases to hours
or days, which often makes the service of little value and discourages
clients. (The number of cancelled calls is likely to be high; no statistics
on cancellations are available at this time.) The external plant in Dar-es-
Salaam and other cities consists mainly of underground cables, many of which
are old and cause faults by poor joints and, during the rainy season, by
leakage. In spite of this problem, the quality of service of the local
cable networks is not too bad: there was an average telephone failure rate
of approximatley 1.2 faults per telephone during the year 1979. Less than
one-half of the faults were cleared the day they were reported, with most of
the balance cleared within 48 hours. This performance is reasonable.
Demand for Service
1.08      In spite of the facts that a potential subscriber has to be
registered on a waiting list for an average period of more than two years,
and that he is normally not given any fixed delivery time promise at the time
of registration, the official waiting lists contained as many as about 18,000
registrations as of December 31, 1979. There is in addition a latent demand,
of approximately the same size, which shows itself from area to area, as
expansion works are undertaken. Of the 18,000 potential subscribers, about
9,000 could not be connected due to lack of both cable pair and exchange
equipment lines and a further 5,000 (approximately) due to lack of cable
pair. For the remainder a variety of reasons were given. The increase by
3,700 in the number on the waiting lists from the end of 1978 to the end of
1979 can be compared to the increase during the same period of the number of
DELs by about 2,900 to 38,283 (9.3% increase) and the number of telephones
by about 6,300 to 88,684 (8.7%).
1.09      Practically all the registrations on the official waiting list
relate to Dar-es-Salaam and other relatively important cities. This does
not reflect a lack of demand in smaller cities and rural areas but rather
the fact that potential clients have been discouraged by long waiting times
and by poor service from established facilities. At the time of Bank
appraisal, there was no sign that the number of new demands would decrease.
However, with the capacity of TPTC to increase the annual addition of new
connections by resources provided under its investment program (Chapter II),
the amount of the unsatisfied demand is tentatively projected to decrease by



-5-
1984 to perhaps as low as 12,000 or two-thirds of the end 1979 figure. TPTC
will also consider tariff measures that would help in channeling the demand
for new subscriber connections in a manner which is desirable to achieve
government development objectives (para. 3.11). The exact demand for tele-
phone communications has not been quantified; from the discussions on the
quality of service (para. 1.07), it is evident, however, that the demand
does now and will in the next few years greatly exceed TPTC's actual capacity
for traffic handling and investment implementation, and thus cause long
waiting times.
1.10      The number of telex subscribers increased from December 31, 1978,
to December 1979 by 22% to 426, while the waiting list was extended by 76 to
314 during the same period. The reasons for the latter, relatively large
figure, is a shortage of exchange lines and shortage of teleprinters. The
telex service is, more than the telephone service, dependent on the economic
activity in Tanzania and internationally. However, it has been projected,
on the basis of enquiries and studies within TPTC, that once the present
waiting list has been eliminated by means made available during the invest-
ment program, the unsatisfied demand for new telex subscriptions will
stabilize at around 150 a year.
Sector Goals
1.11      Telecommunications development objectives are in harmony with
those of the national development plans which give priority to rural develop-
ment and dispersal of the development effort away from major cities, together
with overcoming the isolation of areas within the country. Rapid two-way
communication is seen as an important means of achieving this goal. In the
current five-year plan the objectives established for telecommunications
include:
(a) measures to improve substantially the functional efficiency
of the present installations;
(b) measures to improve communications to rural development areas
and establish an infrastructure enabling such improvement;
and
(c)  measures to expand and improve Tanzania's international
telecommunications.
1.12      After having considered the present shortcomings in its services
(paras. 1.07-1.10) and the objectives set in paragraph 1.11, TPTC has
formulated in concrete terms the targets of its 1980-84 investment program.
These targets, which have been endorsed by Government, are as follows:
(a) to install manually operated facilities in unserviced
district centers and in other towns with major rural
development importance;



(b)  to provide satisfactory telecommunication channels to all
neighboring countries and to install manually operated
telephone facilities in all border towns;
(c)  to provide subscriber long distance dialing between all
regional capitals;
(d)  to increase the extension, reliability, and capacity of the
long distance network so as to ensure the likelihood of
call completion attaining acceptable levels;
(e)  to increase the reliability and capacity of the local
switching and cable networks at various cities and towns,
reducing the present number of outages and reducing the
number of unsatisfied demands registered on the waiting
lists (including the additions up to the end of 1984) to
two-thirds of the present level;
(f)  to install at least one public call box at all places with
a telephone switchboard installation;
(g)  to provide teleprinter installations at all district centers
and at some other towns with major rural development impor-
tance, for rapid and reliable transmission of telegrams and
for public access to the telex network; and
(h) to develop and train the staff of TPTC.
These targets appear to be well established, with a view to achieving develop-
ment towards a telecommunications network that is well balanced, technically
and economically, and that can support the country's economic and social
development to a desirable degree including government administration of the
country, the rural development effort, and private sector business.
1.13      The main components of the investment program are:
(a)  to increase the country's total telephone switching capacity
by about 54,000 automatic and 7,000 manual lines and the
local cable networks by about 75,000 lines;
(b)  to install about 30,000 new DELs, about 700 private branch
exchanges, and about 60,000 telephones;
(c)  to construct about 70 VHF, UHF or microwave radio links for
reliable long distance circuits, and to increase the
capacity of existing links by adding equipment for channeling
and switching;
(d)  to increase the capacity of the telex central office in
Dar-es-Salaam by 900 lines and adding about 1,400 teleprinters
and telegraph transmission equipment as needed;



- 7 -
(e) to improve the reliability of power supply facilities for
telecommunications installations; and
(f) to complete the construction of TPTC's new training center.
1.14      The following table outlines the result of some of the physical
achievements expected from the implementation of the 1980-84 investment pro-
gram, which achievements are in addition to a higher degree of reliability and
efficiency of the telecommunications services than at present, and to TPTC's
generation of a significant amount of local funds (para. 5.11) during the
program period.
end 1979     end 1984
Telephone line density (DELs per
100 inhabitants) - Total                    0.21          0.32
Urbanl/                 1.80          2.00
Rural                   0.04          0.09
Telephone availability in rural areas
- number of rural towns served               114           156
- percent of total rural population
with relatively convenient access
to telephone service                      3.60          4.70
Unsatisfied demand for telephone
subscription in areas with service        18,000        12,000
1/  The term "'urban" covers towns and cities with 20,000 or more
inhabitants.
Sector Constraints
1.15      The autonomy, responsibility, and organization of TPTC are adequate
for the operation and expansion of the Tanzanian telecommunications services.
The officials of TPTC management are well qualified for their tasks, and
staff with both training and experience is available on all levels in the
organization. There is, however, a shortage of such trained and experienced
staff, which shortage has made difficult the much needed increase of efficiency
in the utilization and maintenance of the existing installations and in
expansion work. Realizing this shortcoming, the Government has caused TPTC
to include a strong training department in its organization. Training facili-
ties, however, are extremely inadequate (para. 4.05).
1.16      The other major constraint which has impeded progress in the telecom-
munications sector has been the lack of secured long-term foreign exchange
financing. This has caused slow and somewhat erratic expansion, and resulted
in inability to implement continuous longer term planning, in high equipment
costs, and in a failure to sustain an adequate maintenance program.



-8-
Bank Group Role
1.17      Prior to 1977, the telecommunications services in the East African
Community (Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda) were managed by EAPTC. The Bank has
been associated with these services since in 1967 it approved a US$13.0 million
loan (483-EA) to EAPTC to help finance a project designed to increase local
and long distance facilities. The project was satisfactorily completed in
early 1974. A second loan (675-EA) for US$10.4 million was approved in 1970
to finance a project to further extend the telecommunications services.
This project was satisfactorily completed in June 1975.  The combined project
performance audit report on these first two projects, while holding an overall
positive view of the achievements by the Bank's association with EAPTC, points
to delays in project implementation caused by inadequate planning and project
management, to problems in procurement, and to failure to meet demand for
service. A third loan (914-EA) was approved in May 1973 for US$32.5 million
to further extend telecommunications services. Due to problems in the East
African Community, leading to its breakup, the works to be undertaken on the
third project have been delayed. The Tanzania part of the project is now
anticipated to be completed in 1981.
1.18      IDA first became associated specifically with the telecommunications
sector in Tanzania through a sector mission in January 1979 followed by a
project identification mission in September 1979. IDA's proposed role in the
telecommunications sector in Tanzania is focused upon institutional develop-
ment and staff training, provision of independent technical and economic
advice, promotion of an improved tariff structure, and provision of a sound
long-term foreign exchange base on which plans can be prepared and implemented
and equipment and facilities costs reduced. While the three EAC projects,
mentioned in paragraph 1.17, were managed by EAPTC in a not completely satis-
factory manner, the mission expects that TPTC, which will manage the proposed
project, would, with planned training initiatives, have the ability to imple-
ment it satisfactorily as it has now a significant experience in planning,
engineering, and construction of telecommunications installations. This
experience was partly gained during execution of Tanzanian part of earlier
projects (para. 1.17). Furthermore, TPTC is now conversant with Bank Group's
guidelines for procurement and in the process of preparing bidding documents
for procurement of goods in the project.
II. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Plan and the Program
2.01      The telecommunications investment program was designed within the
overall framework of the national development plans (para. 1.11). The tele-
communications component has been approved by Government and is not expected
to be modified. TPTC and the Ministries of Finance and of Planning have
always maintained close links concerning the preparation and approval of
telecommunications programs and required budgetary allocations. These
Ministries are thus aware that this sector cannot ensure completion of its
agreed program commitments and designs without an assured long-term funds
availability.



- 9 -
2.02      The updated program for telecommunications investment covers the
period 1980-84. The program is set out in detail in Annex 3 and includes
the following:
(a) the proposed project (para. 2.03); and
(b) other program works (see Annex 3 for more details):
(i)  completion of works under the third EAPTC project
(para. 1.17);
(ii) other ongoing works; and
(iii) preliminary works needed for expansion of the
telecommunications facilities from 1985 onward.
2.03      The complete program is estimated to cost about T Sh 1,715 million
(US$207 million) with a foreign exchange component of about T Sh 1,100 million
(US$133 million) (Annex 4).
Project Concept
2.04      The proposed project has been designed within the framework of
the TPTC's current investment program (paras. 1.13 and 2.02). It comprises
works to be undertaken principally during the years 1981, 1982 and the first
half of 1983, which are essential for the successful implementation of the
program.
2.05      In addition to providing physical facilities and help TPTC generate
significant amounts of local funds (para. 5.11), the project has a number of
broad objectives.  It aims at improving and developing TPTC as an institution,
and increasing its capacity for training staff. It aims at focusing the
services expansion in rural areas and at spreading the network to presently
unserved or insufficiently served areas, both urban and rural. Since in a
network of this size and stage of development, it remains necessary to estab-
lish reasonably uncongested and reliable urban and long distance networks
into which, naturally, most of the traffic from rural users would be flowing,
the project aims at supporting a technical and economic balance of the program.
Finally, the project will facilitate an increase to acceptable levels of the
reliability and functional efficiency of the present installations.
The Project
2.06      The proposed project provides for (references are made to the
overall investment program targets outlined in para. 1.12):
(a) construction of about 550 km of overhead line routes and
of about 12 VHF or UHF links, as well as installation of
about 850 channels of rural carrier equipment and of power
supply equipment for telecommunications facilities at



- 10 -
about 90, mostly rural, centers. These facilities will be
used to connect district centers and other rural towns, as
well as border towns to the telecommunications networks
(items (a), (b) and (d) of para. 1.12), and to ensure
reliable service;
(b)  construction of four microwave links and installation of
about 600 channels of multiplex equipment in new and existing
broadband transmission systems. This equipment is essential
in the development of the principal long distance network
(items (b), (c) and (d) of para. 1.12);
(c)  expansion of the local cable network at about 90 urban and
rural centers; pressurization of junction cables in Dar-es-
Salaam, and provision of dropwire. The local cable and the
dropwire correspond to outside network plant and subscriber
installations foreseen in items (e) and (f) of paragraph 1.12.
(The necessary switching equipment and telephone instruments
are partly available or under installation; the supply of the
remainder is being secured under bilateral financing);
(d)  provision of about 700 teleprinters.  This equipment is needed
during the first two years of the project, for connection of
telex subscribers (about two-thirds), for leased circuit
terminals, and for installations under item (g) of paragraph
1.12;
(e)  provision of cement and other building material.  The local
production of cement and certain other building material does
not adequately supply the needs of the country; the balance
having to be imported. The quantity included in the project
corresponds to what is needed for antenna tower foundations,
cable ducts, and operational buildings, so as not to allow
the shortage of such material to cause delays in the comple-
tion of the project;
(f)  provision of spare parts:  for existing power supply and
telecommunications installations, for air-conditioning
installations in equipment rooms, and for vehicles that are
needed in the installation of project items and in the
operation of telecommunications facilities. The general
shortage of foreign exchange has caused extreme difficulties
for TPTC's ongoing activities. Thus, about one-third of the
vehicle fleet is garaged, waiting for spare parts.  Parts of
the long distance network are out of use, due to lack of
spare parts. Some equipment installed in the coastal areas
will have its life length reduced by corrosion, due to the
fact that the air-conditioning does not work for lack of
spare parts. The provision of spare parts under the project
aims at rectifying the situation as far as possible;



- 11 -
(g) provision of an air-conditioning plant and of training equipment.
These items are critical in the completion of the new training
center and in starting up the activities there (para. 4.05).
They cannot be procured locally;
(h) provision of 40 vehicles. These vehicles are specialized or
four-wheel-drive vehicles for handling of cable drums and other
heavy or bulky items and for other installation and maintenance
work. In computing the number of vehicles needed, it has been
assumed that practically all of the vehicles now garaged (item
(f) above) will be brought back into service;
(i) installation of a digital telephone exchange in Zanzibar city
as a pilot project preceding the introduction of similar equip-
ment on a large scale in various parts of Tanzania;
(j) provision for training fellowships and overseas study tour.
These are intended for specialization in such essential fields
as outside plant engineering, construction, and operation, in
stores and supplies management, etc., and will complement the
locally available training; and
(k) provision of consultancy services for, inter alia, a study of
the impact of improved telecommunications on the economic and
social development of the country.
Project Costs
2.07      The estimated cost of the project is about T Sh 390 million (US$47.0
million), with a foreign exchange component of about T Sh 224 million (US$27.0
million). The cost details are given in Annex 4 and summarized below:



- 12 -
T Sh million             US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Local Network
Cables, accessories, dropwire               68      75      143    8.36    8.78   17.14
Interurban Network
Overhead lines and rural/line carrier        -      15       15    0.09    1.78    1.87
VHF, UHF and microwave links                21      28       49    2.62    3.30    5.92
Multiplex equipment                          1        8       9    0.08    1.04    1.12
Power supply equipment                       1       4        5    0.05    0.54    0.59
Telex and Gentex Network
Teleprinters                                 1      17       18    0.20    2.03    2.23
Support for Installation and Operation
Cement and other building material           1       7        8    0.14    0.82    0.96
Spare parts                                  1       7        8    0.10    0.82    0.92
Vehicles                                     1       4        5    0.10    0.50    0.60
Pilot Project                                4      11       15    0.36    1.60    1.96
Training and Consultancy Services
Training equipment and air conditioning  11          6       17    1.32    0.73    2.05
Fellowships, study tours and
consultancy services                      -        3        3    0.01    0.30    0.31
Subtotal                            110      185     295   13.43   22.24   35.67
Physical contingencies                6        8       14    0.65    1.00    1.65
Price contingencies                  50       31       81    5.99    3.76    9.75
Total Financing Required            166      224     390   20.07   27.00   47.07
2.08      The cost estimates (figures represent the expected cost level at
the latter part of 1980) are based on prices quoted in Tanzania and similar
countries for similar types of equipment.  No taxes or duties are charged on
imported telecommunications equipment. The local costs are based on preva-
lent costs of civil works, or costs of small equipment and services available
in Tanzania.
Contingencies
2.09      A physical contingency of 5% has been provided on foreign and local
costs. Price contingencies have been applied for all equipment and materials
on an annual price escalation of 8% in foreign costs and 17% for local costs.
They are considered adequate and reflect the declining cost in real terms of
telecommunications equipment. The resulting estimated overall price escalation
amounts to about 26% of the estimated base cost plus physical contingencies.



- 13 -
Project Financing
2.10      Project costs will be financed as follows:
US$ million     %
IDA                27.0         57
TPTC                20.0        43
Total     47.0        100
2.11      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 22.1 million (equal to US$27.0
million using the rate SDR 1.00 = 1.22) would be to the Government of
Tanzania on standard IDA terms and would finance about 57% of total project
costs. In line with conditions applied in government onlending to other
parastatals, Government would onlend the proceeds of the proposed IDA
credit, at an interest rate of 10% per annum, for a period of 20 years
including a grace period on capital repayments of five years with TPTC
carrying the foreign exchange risk. Assurances were obtained in this
regard during negotiations. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between Government and TPTC acceptable to the Association and reflecting the
above is to be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Procurement
2.12      All equipment to be financed by the proposed IDA credit will be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), except for a few
items costing a total of about US$1,500,000. The items excluded from ICB
and proposed for negotiated purchase on the grounds of compatibility are
spare parts for existing vehicles and for existing telecommunications and
auxiliary equipment (US$750,000). The prices paid for the negotiated
purchases would be subject to IDA approval and would have to be reasonable
in terms of ICB prices offered on similar items. Furthermore, contracts for
civil works materials and sundry maintenance equipment and spares costing
less than US$150,000, and not exceeding a total of US$750,000, would be
awarded following TPTC procurement procedures which are satisfactory.
Disbursements
2.13      Funds would be disbursed on the following basis and, for each
category, disbursement would cover 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of
local expenditures.



- 14 -
Category                                            US$ (000's)
(a)  Cables and accessories                                  9,000
(b)  Rural line and carrier equipment                        1,750
(c)  Microwave and UHF equipment                             3,500
(d)  Power equipment                                           500
(e)  Multiplex, VHF and radio call equipment                 1,000
(f)  Teleprinters                                            2,000
(g) Civil works raw materials (cement and
reinforcing rods)                                     1,000
(h)  Vehicles                                                  500
(i) Spares for telecommunications equipment,
air conditioning equipment, power
equipment, and vehicles                               1,000
(j) Training and research equipment
(including air conditioning)                            550
(k)  Fellowship and consultancy services                       400
(1)  Pilot project                                           1,800
(m) An unallocated amount transferable to
above categories as appropriate                       4,000
Total             27,000
An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 5.
Project Implementation
2.14      The Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC) will
be responsible for project implementation. TPTC staff will prepare engineer-
ing designs for all equipment, prepare bidding documents, evaluate bids and
prepare contract documents. TPTC will lay and commission all local and
junction cables and install subscriber facilities both in provincial towns
and the metropolitan area. TPTC will also install the microwave, multiplex
and radio equipment. TPTC's management and staff are sufficiently experi-
enced and are capable of managing the above work satisfactorily. TPTC staff
are currently preparing bid documents and technical specifications for
nearly all IDA-financed goods. Implementation and operations within TPTC
have been hampered by lack of spare parts for vehicles (currently about 35%
of vehicles are off the road awaiting spare parts). The project provides for
spare parts and tools, and the status of vehicle maintenance will be monitored
during supervision. During the execution of the project, IDA supervision of
procurement will also ensure that equipment will be properly deployed and
procured or delivered only when the building or structure for this equipment
is certain to be completed by delivery time and only when any necessary
ancillary equipment (switching, etc.) is certain to be ready for system
linkup. An estimated project implementation schedule is given in Annex 6.



- 15 -
Performance Indicators and Monitoring
2.15      Performance indicators to help monitor TPTC's project implementa-
tion and operational and financial performance are given in Annex 7. These
were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations and will be included in
TPTC project progress reports to be sent to IDA. Project execution reports
will be prepared and submitted on a quarterly basis, financial reports in
accordance with paragraph 4.10 below. The performance indicators and the
figures showing their expected annual variations have been chosen so as to
demonstrate TPTC's degree of success in installation of facilities provided
under the project, in making agreed staffing improvement, in accelerating
its training activities, in utilizing spare parts provided under the project,
in keeping down the level of outstanding subscriber accounts receivable, and
in improving its financial performance as projected.
III. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3.01      The economic analysis discussed in this chapter related to the
1980-84 telecommunications investment program, of which the project forms
an integral part. The program is designed to facilitate achievement of
the objectives of the telecommunications sector which are derived from the
National Development Plans (para. 1.11).
Telecommunications and Economic Development
3.02      Inside Dar-es-Salaam and a few other big cities, the existing tele-
communications facilities are congested, particularly during office hours.
Moreover, the main long distance network is almost always congested during
daytime hours, and often faulty. The characteristic feature of the rural
network is a very sparse availability, circuits often out of order and heavily
congested (paras. 1.03-1.09).
3.03      Government development efforts, which are focused on rural devel-
opment (para. 1.01), have an indispensable need for a countrywide network of
reasonably well functioning telecommunications services. In the actual
situation described above, these efforts are being seriously hampered,
particularly so by the inadequacy or unavailability of communications
channels between Dar-es-Salaam and the other regional capitals, and between
them and the district centers and other principal towns. For example, an
important long distance telecommunications link in the country goes between
Kigoma, situated on Lake Tanganyika, and Dar-es-Salaam. Kigoma is important
not only as capital of region but also as point of transfer of goods between
the railway to Dar-es-Salaam and the shipping lines, particularly the one to
Burundi. Usually, between two and four hours are required to establish a
call on this link during office hours, and this poor service contributes to
difficulties for the transporters to avoid transit delays, to difficulties
to comply with plans for Kigoma's development, and to Government's diffi-
culties to monitor the situation.



- 16 -
3.04      The lack of access to rapid communications over most of the vast
expanse of Tanzania has created significant problems or aggravated existing
problems in the coordination and management of all sectors. Major problems
have, for example, been encountered in creating and maintaining a national
transport system, and in coordinating trips to minimize fuel consumption;
many of these are related to a lack of information and reliable communica-
tion channels. Trucks often return to base empty even though there are
cargoes waiting to be picked up; breakdowns are not quickly reported and
there are delays in analyzing mechanical problems and sending a repair
team with suitable parts and tools. Agricultural development efforts also
suffer because of slow and unreliable communication. There are many instances
in which supplies are not ordered or provided on a timely basis, and informa-
tion on prices, transport, and administrative problems is either untimely,
unavailable, or sometimes grossly misleading. Among other things, this
directly or indirectly reduces the quantities of agricultural products
exported and reduces the quantities and the timeliness of locally produced
foddstuff available in the domestic consumer markets. This in turn has
undesirable consequences for the country's economy at large and for the
producers' development endeavors.
3.05      Government officials, responsible for project implementation,
who require daily information from parastatals and other ministry depart-
ments, spend up to three hours a day travelling, due to the fact that
inadequate telecommunications links necessitate frequent trips by car.
In the absence of adequate long distance telephone connections, other
government officials must make monthly or even weekly, costly and time-
and fuel-consuming trips. Instead of a situation where adequate telecom-
munications services contain the pressure on the strained transport system,
the present inadequacy of these services exaggerates the burden on the
system. Furthermore, due to shortage of both means of telecommunications
and of transport, day-to-day problems and bottlenecks remain frequently
not reported or inadequately attended to.
3.06      The investment program (para. 1.13) has been designed to improve
the reliability and efficiency of the present telephone installations to
more acceptable levels. It will also increase the capacity of the local
and long distance networks, so as to enable automatic and manual calls to
be established without excessive delay. It will expand the network to
about 42 presently unserved towns, enabling access both from public tele-
phone booths and from subscriber installations. Although the program will
not eliminate unsatisfied demand for subscriber connections or for immediate
access, it will significantly improve the present situation, thus alleviating
some of the difficulties indicated in paragraphs 3.02 to 3.05.
The Distribution of Benefits
3.07      Most segments of Tanzanian society will feel, directly or indirectly,
the benefits of TPTC's 1980-84 investment program, since the completion of
the program will contribute to greater efficiency in business, transportation,
and Government administration and rural development, health, and educational
programs.



- 17 -
3.08      By end 1984, the access to the network and the quality of communi-
cations should have improved greatly. In general, the targets described in
paragraph 1.12 should have been fulfilled as follows:
(a) the remaining 17 district centers and other presently unserved
towns which are important in the economic and social develop-
ment would have been connected to the telecommunications net-
work and been provided with a manual switchboard, one or more
public telephone booth(s), and the possibility for connection
of subscribers;
(b) all border towns would have been provided with rapid and
reliable telephone connections; none has it at present;
(c) high quality links with the eight neighboring countries would
have been established or would be in the process of being
established; more or less satisfactory links to three of these
countries now exist, with very poor links to the other five;
(d) the principal long distance network would consist entirely of
circuits complying with international standards and would
enable approximately the following:
(i)  direct dialing between all regional centers, with
not more than one failure in five attempts;
(ii) manual traffic to and from all district centers and
border towns, with less than half an hour waiting
time;
(iii)  manual traffic with other towns connected to the
network with less than an hour waiting time; and
(iv) international traffic of acceptable quality;
(e)  the reliability of the local networks at about 90 urban and
rural cities and towns will have been improved (the number of
faults per telephone and year reduced from 1.2 to 0.7) and
their capacities extended. About 60,000 new telephones and
about 300 additional public call boxes will have been installed.
The updated waiting list for new subscribers, in areas with
service, will have been reduced to about 12,000; and
(f) teleprinters will have been installed and connected to the
telex networks, at all district centers and at about 50 other
places with important economic activity.



- 18 -
3.09      By end 1984, the telephone density will have increased from 1.80
to 2.00 in urban areas and from 0.04 to 0.09 in rural areas (para. 1.14),
and the long distance network will have been improved and additional public
call boxes been installed (para. 3.08) Although the level of the telephone
density will still be much higher in urban areas, the relative increase is
much bigger in rural areas (125%) than in urban areas (11%). As a result,
the benefits of the program will be felt significantly in the activities
of economic and social development in rural areas, including those of the
small farmers and small businessmen and their families.
3.10      Inside Dar-es-Salaam and other urban communities, the greatest
benefits would flow to Government administration, including parastatals,
and to commercial activities. Benefits would also be reaped by a rela-
tively limited number of senior civil servants and others who can afford
a private telephone installation, and by the large number of people who
can utilize public call boxes. The expected flow of benefits is acceptable.
However, tariff measures should be considered that can in the future guide
the flow of benefits further (para. 3.14). The proposed project will have
a favorable financial impact on government development programs in other
sectors and will generate significant public savings. Over the project
period, it is estimated that TPTC will generate a net amount of US$84
million equivalent in local currency revenue, which Government may use for
other purposes (para. 5.12).
3.11      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that by December 31,
1982, TPTC will have carried out the study of the impact of improved tele-
communications services on the economic development of Tanzania under terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA. Such study shall include a survey on the
usage of telecommunications services by current and potential customers.
Tariff Policies
3.12      The last tariff increase was in February 1975.  TPTC has a tariff
review committee consisting of the director general, the two assistant
director generals, and the directors of finance and of research and
corporate planning. This committee sends its recommendations to the TPTC
Board, which forwards for approval final recommendations to the Ministry of
Communications and Transport. The telephone access allocational aspects
of tariff policy have not in the past been a prime factor in determining
tariff level or structure.
3.13      A table of existing tariffs is at Annex 8.  The installation cost
(US$36) and the annual rental (US$58) for telephone are the same in rural
and urban areas, as is the charge (US$0.08) for an untimed local call.
The charges for long distance domestic calls vary with the distance between
caller and called station (US$0.16 to.US$1.10 per minute; during "cheap
rate hours" the charge is one-half). The installation fee is relatively
low by developing country standards, and the long distance call, charges



- 19 -
relatively high; the annual rental charge and untimed call charge compare
approximately to the average of charges in other countries. On the average,
about 80% of the calls made from urban residential or office telephones are
local calls and about 20% are long distance domestic or international calls.
For rural telephones, the ratio is approximately the opposite. Hence, the
distributional result of the tariff structure for telephone calls is that
it favors urban clients by relatively low total charges. The structure,
however, corresponds to costs for installation, maintenance, and operation
which are lower in cities. Nevertheless, the relatively high costs for
subscribers in rural areas are not conducive to a higher usage which may be
commensurate with Government rural development efforts, and which over a
period of time, could render TPTC's installations in rural areas profitable.
3.14      TPTC will, therefore, undertake a tariff study under terms of
reference as discussed during the negotiations (draft terms of reference
are at Annex 9). The study should be completed by December 31, 1982 and
the results and implementation implications should be reviewed with IDA
not later than June 30, 1983. The study should compute the costs of the
various elements of the telecommunications services provided, and estimate
the needs for the services of the various groups of existing and potential
users. It should attempt to rationalize tariff structure and level toward
ascertaining what changes, if any, might improve channeling of the utili-
zation of the telecommunications network to high productivity users,
and to attempt to distribute the benefits of investments throughout the
entire country in such a manner as to promote equity and balance and to
efficiently support Government and private efforts for economic and social
development.
Least Cost Solution
3.15      The design of the telecommunications network has been based on
what is considered to be appropriate technology and standard engineering
methods for minimizing capital and recurrent costs.  Experienced engineers
within TPTC have carried out the planning and design for each component
of the network expansion. Appropriate intervals for extension of the various
types of plants have been adopted.
3.16      For the programmed expansion of the present central offices and
for installation of new switching facilities, register controlled crossbar
equipment of recent design will be used, since the Tanzanian installation
and maintenance personnel is familiar with this kind of equipment, and
since appropriate arrangements have been made in the stores organization
and in staff training. During the next program, the major portion of
switching equipment added is likely to be electronic digital; the pilot
installation at Zanzibar, provided for under the present project, will give
valuable planning information in this regard. Subscriber dialing, instead
of the operator-handled setting up of calls for traffic between the regional
capitals, is thought to be desirable despite this solution being somewhat
less labor intensive and slightly more demanding on initial capital. This
is primarily because automatic operation has distinct time, reliability, and



- 20 -
efficiency advantages, for both TPTC and the clients, on the high traffic
routes in question, with a significant amount of the traffic originating
beyond the regional capitals, in manual exchange areas.
Return on Investment
3.17      The internal financial rate of return on the program, defined as
the discount rate which equalizes the present value of cost and revenue
streams (at 1980 prices) attributable to the 1980-84 program, is 17%.
3.18      This rate of return understates the real benefits to be derived
from the investment program, partly because the benefits stream used in
the calculation does not take into consideration a major portion of the
indirect and external benefits which are received by nonusers of the ser-
vice. It also does not include much of the consumer surplus which telephone
users receive. In recent years, inflation has resulted in telephone tariffs
falling in real terms, and, in the absence of tariff changes (para. 3.12),
they will continue to do so. As an example of the significance of this,
a portion of the consumer surplus is estimated by (a) tabulating over the
program period the prices in 1980 real terms, which the existing subscribers
and existing registered applicants have demonstrated a willingness to pay;
and (b) assuming that the new applicants will also be willing to pay the
same real amount as existing subscribers and waiting applicants have
demonstrated a willingness to pay. Given these assumptions, all of which
are considered reasonable, and after shadow pricing the foreign exchange
elements of the program at US$1.0 = T Sh 12.0, the quantifiable estimate of
the economic rate of return would be 24%.
Risks
3.19      The project offers limited risk.  The principal risk is the pos-
sibility of delayed physical implementation due to unforeseen circumstances.
In telecommunications projects, which comprise a relatively large number
of independent activities, delay in the completion of a few works does
not generally prevent the use of other newly created assets. Furthermore,
costs and benefits are often delayed in roughly the same degree, so the
impact on the rate of return may not be significant. A sensitivity analysis
on the economic rate of return (Annex 10) shows that a combination of
10% higher capital costs and 10% lower revenues would result in a return
of 19%.
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.20      Telecommunications projects have very little direct impact on
the environment. The plant is mostly unseen and it consumes little energy.
Through its use as an alternative to communications involving physical
movements, however, telecommunications has the potential to conserve
energy, reduce environmental pollution, and facilitate such items as health
services delivery and emergency care.



- 21 -
IV. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Organization
4.01      Established by the Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corpora-
tion Act, 1977, dated December 2, 1977, TPTC, the project implementing
agency, is an autonomous government-owned public corporation responsible for
all domestic and international postal and telecommunications services in
Tanzania. It started operations on February 3, 1978.
4.02      TPTC has a board of directors on which are representatives of,
among others, Ministries of Finance and of Communications and Transport, of
Parliament, and of the employees' union. The day-to-day operations of TPTC,
which have a commercial orientation, are controlled by a director general,
who has reporting to him a director of research and corporate planning, and
two assistant directors general in charge of operations, and finance and
administration. Postal and telecommunications share the common services of
research and corporate planning, of finance and administration, and of
buildings. From an accounting point of view, the operations of postal and
telecommunications services are separately identified. TPTC's present
organization chart is shown at Annex 11.
Management and Control
4.03      The management, budgeting, and control systems in TPTC operate
reasonably well, although there are some areas which require strengthening
(para. 4.07). The flow of management information is not always presented
in a way that could lead to effective action. TPTC is working on a
management information system which is expected to be completed during the
next 12 months.
Staff and Training
4.04      Estimated telecommunications staff distribution by category is
given in the following table:
Staff Classification            Numbers
Senior engineers                          155
Technicians and specialist workers         911
Operators                                  962
Laborers                                   724
Administrative                             402
Total Communications Staff         3,154



- 22 -
This number of staff is on the high side when compared with the number of
telephones now in service (77 per 1,000 DELs). With the introduction of
more sophisticated systems, TPTC, during the project period, does not
anticipate expanding its staff at the same rate as in the past (about 7%
p.a.) and expects that by end 1984, staff density will have reduced to
about 58 per 1,000 DELs, which is acceptable pending further reduction in
subsequent years.
4.05      TPTC has a great need for training of its staff, both in order to
improve operation and maintenance of existing installations and to cater to
foreseen expansion. Currently, TPTC has two training campuses, both in
Dar-es-Salaam. In addition, TPTC has the possibility to send some students
for managerial and administrative training to a multi-national training
institution in Arusha. The available facilities are, however, very inade-
quate, and a new training center is being built in the outskirts of Dar-es-
Salaam. Completion is expected in early 1983, at which time the activities
at all the campuses will be consolidated. The major part of the training
will be done at the new center, although some will still be undertaken at
the TPTC's present centers and some students be sent to the Arusha
institution.
-4.06      Instruction and training programs within TPTC cover most signifi-
cant aspects of its business (engineering, maintenance, postal matters,
finance, civil works, etc.). There is both in-house and on-site training,
with instructors having formerly worked on site. Maintenance personnel are,
on the average, retrained for two weeks per year. Middle- and senior-level
technicians are sent overseas for short- and medium-term courses. Swedish
aid has provided a number of instructors for the schools and this aid is to
continue.  Several small items of equipment as well as air conditioning
for the machinery rooms are required. The project provides for these, thus
ensuring that external financing requirements for the training component
are covered. The present plans for TPTC's training activities foresee a
successive increase of up to 14,000 student-weeks in 1984, up from 6,000 in
1979. This corresponds to the need of the organization. The increase in
number of student-weeks will only be attained, however, if the planned
activities are implemented in a timely fashion.
Accounting and Budgeting
4.07      TPTC enjoys a considerable degree of financial autonomy and prepares
its accounts on a commercial basis. TPTC is required by the TPTC Act to
present its audited accounts within six months of the end of the financial
year. Up to now, this has not been possible due to various delays (para. 4.10).
TPTC prepares annual budget forecasts and these are presented to the board for
its review, comment, and approval, in September of each year (three months in
advance of fiscal year). Capital development budgets are forwarded for final
approval to the central government authorities via the Ministry of Communica-
tions and Transport, and it is in this area that full financial autonomy for
TPTC is not achieved. Government is in control of foreign exchange resource
allocation to TPTC and in this role can determine the size and scope of
expansion. Tanzania's extreme shortage of foreign exchange funds has been a



- 23 -
major constraint on sector development (para. 1.16). TPTC operating results
are presented separately for telecommunications and postal operations (para.
5.02). The annual balance sheet is prepared for TPTC as a whole, with tele-
commdnications and postal assets separately identified. TPTC's accounting
operations are slow but otherwise reasonably well controlled and managed.
Billing and Collection
4.08      Rentals are billed monthly in advance and call charges are billed
monthly after they have been incurred. The billing system at the issuing
office in Dar-es-Salaam is computerized. At present, bills are on average
issued about three-and-a-half months after the period to which they relate.
Two months of this delay occur prior to receipt of billing information by the
centralized computer center in Dar-es-Salaam. Subscribers can pay at any
post office and are expected to do so within two weeks of their receiving
the bill. The policy is that, if a subscriber has not paid the bill within
one month after receipt of the bill, the telephone is disconnected. This
policy, however, does not seem to be uniformly applied in all cases. Accounts
receivable as of December 31, 1979, are estimated to be T Sh 170 million
representing private and parastatal sector users. This is an overdue factor
of about six months, which equates to two-and-a-half months payment delay or
doubtful debts and three-and-a-half months bill issuance delay. In order to
clarify and improve the accounts receivable situation, TPTC will use their
receivables ageing analysis by type of user to institute procedures to ensure
a reduction of the level of outstanding receivables so that they do not
exceed the equivalent of four months of gross telecommunications revenues by
December 31, 1982, and three months by December 31, 1984. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that TPTC accounts, billings and computer
sections would investigate and suggest methods of improving the three-and-a-
half months delay in the present bill issuance and forward the report of
investigation with implementation implications and actions to IDA by
December 31, 1981. One critical factor in the current bill issuance delay is
the lack of vehicles for the billing services. This should be partly taken
care of under the project [para. 2.06(f) and (h)]. A recent mission to
Tanzania has confirmed that elements of this study have already started
and that progress has been made to the extent that total delay has
recently been reduced to about two and a half months.
Audit
4.09      TPTC has an internal audit section which, since December 1979, has
been expanded to 19 personnel. This section operates with an audit program
and covers both routine accounting and management control procedures. Every
two months, an internal audit report is issued to management.
4.10      The Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC) is TPTC's external auditor.
The audit of the 1978 accounts has recently been completed; delays have
occurred both in the presentation of draft accounts and in the auditing work.
The situation has improved somewhat, although the one major delay is the



- 24 -
billing delay (para. 4.08). During negotiations, assurances have been ob-
tained that TPTC will continue to employ independent auditors acceptable
to the Association and will conform to the following timetable with respect
to forwarding reports to IDA.
Fiscal Year                        Audited Accounts
(months after end of fiscal year)
1981                                   8
1982                                   7
1983                                   6
1984                                   6
1985                                   6
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.01      The final division of the East Africa Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (EAPTC) assets and liabilities 1/ among the former partner states,
after the breakup of the EAC in 1977, is still pending. The independent
mediator, appointed in January 1978 to advise on the division, has presented
his report in March 1980, but the acceptance of his recommendations and the
final settlement may take some time. Government has authorized TPTC to
operate EAPTC assets in Tanzania. However, these assets cannot be declared
the property of TPTC until final agreement is reached. This situation implies
that historic and projected financial statements presented for TPTC are
provisional and may be adjusted according to a future final settlement of
EAPTC's assets and liabilities. The financial covenants would be drafted to
become operative on a specific date subsequent to final agreement of the
mediation. During negotiations, agreement was reached on how to apply
the principles underlying these covenants on provisional financial data, until
such time as the mediation exercise has been concluded and final financial
statements are available.
Postal Operations
5.02      In addition to telecommunications, TPTC operates the postal
services. For the years 1976 to 1979, postal revenues covered operating
expenditures, leaving a profit margin of about T Sh 1.0 million. Postal
11 Including also the assets and liabilities of East African External
Telecommunications Corporation, a company which was owned by EAPTC
and which had been established for the purpose of operating the
installations for international telecommunications services.



- 25 -
services are supposed to operate on a break-even operating basis. Some
telecommunications funds will, however, over the project period, be used
to finance postal capital works. The accounting system of TPTC separates
postal and telecommunications operations (para. 4.07). Postal net fixed
assets accounts for about 10% of the total assets now managed by TPTC.
The analysis in this chapter relates to the whole of TPTC's operations.
Past Financial Performances
5.03      The past financial performance of TPTC has been good.  A summary
for the years 1977 to 1979 is given below.
1977    1978    1979
(T Sh millions)
Operating revenues                    249.7   298.4   329.3
Operating costs                       104.3   132.9   156.9
Operating surplus before tax          145.4   165.5   172.4
Taxation                                -       70.5    60.0
Net operating surplus                 145.4    95.0   112.4
Operating ratio (%)                    42      45       48
Rate of return on revalued assets
before tax (%)                       27      24       21
after tax (%)                        27      14       14
As can be seen, operating ratios and rates of return both before and after
tax are acceptable.
Present Financial Position
5.04      A summary of TPTC's estimated balance sheet as at December 31,
1979, is shown below.



- 26 -
T Sh       US$
(millions)
Assets (Book Value)
Fixed Assets
Telecommunication net plant in operation           385.9      46.5
Postal net plant in operation                      118.5      14.3
Work in progress and materials and supplies        230.0      27.7
Total net fixed assets                        734.4     88.5
Financial assets                                   109.0      13.1
Current assets                                     369.5      44.5
Total assets                                1,212.9    146.1
Liabilities
Equity capital                                     641.1      77.2
Reserve funds                                      132.4      16.0
Long-term debt                                     257.0      30.9
Current liabilities                                182.4     22.0
Total liabilities                           1,212.9    146.1
Financial assets consist of investment of INTELSAT 1/ and pension liability
funds. The book value of EAPTC Tanzania based assets are included above.
However, these EAPTC assets, which have yet to be legally vested to TPTC,
represent less than 10% of the value of TPTC's net fixed assets.
Valuation of Assets
5.05      TPTC's records on fixed assets are incomplete and historic cost for
each item cannot be firmly established. Plant accounts are maintained,
however, and present asset figures and future projections are considered to
be reasonably accurate.
1/ Covering the right to participate in the INTELSAT system for telecommunication
via satellites.



- 27 -
5.06      TPTC has never established the effect of inflation on the value of
its fixed assets. A consultant study of EAPTC assets valuation, dated
January 1976, concluded that the gross book value of the estimated Tanzanian
share needed to be increased by 21% to reflect replacement cost at December
1974. To reduce possible distortion in assets value by price inflation on
the one hand and declining unit costs of telecommunications assets from
improved technologies on the other, TPTC's total net fixed assets in operation
have been adjusted on a trial basis to reflect the current value of the assets,
by being revalued from the 1974 base by 6% per annum.
5.07      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, not later than
September 30, 1981, TPTC would propose and agree with IDA on a method for
the annual revaluation of its total fixed assets. Assurances would also be
obtained that TPTC would review the value of its fixed assets annually there-
after, in accordance with the methods agreed on with IDA for the purposes of
calculating the rate of return on the telecommunications assets.
Financing Plan
5.08      The forecast of sources and application of funds is based upon
TPTC's capital expenditure program and is shown in Annex 13. Following is a
summary of the financing plan for the period 1980-84.
T Sh    US$
(millions)
Requirements
Proposed project                       390     47
Other program works                    878    105
Future programs preinvestment          446     54
Total program cost             1,714    206
Increase in reserve and net
current assets                       592     71
Total requirements             2,306    277
Sources
Internal cash generation             1,249    150
Less debt service                      316     38
Net cash generation                    933    112
Medium- and long-term financing    1,373    165
Total sources                  2,306    277



- 28 -
Medium- and long-term financing consists of: multilateral agencies (IDA) -
T Sh 224 million; bilateral agencies (Japan and Sweden) - T Sh 800 million;
suppliers' credits and Government - T Sh 349 million. Of this financing,
approximately T Sh 680 million is already confirmed, and the items for
financing ensure effective implementation of the project vis-a-vis
ancillary link-up equipment.
5.09      TPTC has a good net internal cash generation which finances the
equivalent of 54% of program costs. Long-term debt and increase in net
current assets are both high as debt is required for foreign exchange
expenditures; hence, there is a large build-up in the accounts of local
currency. The Ministry of Finance has in the past swapped local currency
for foreign exchange. As there can be no certainty of this for the future,
it has not been assumed in any financial projections.
Future Financial Performance
5.10      Financial statements for the fiscal years 1980-85 are given in Annex 12
through Annex 14. A summary of TPTC's expected future financial performance,
assuming inflation on operating costs (17% on local and 8% on foreign costs)
consistent with those used for estimating project costs, is given below:
Fiscal Years Ending December 31:       1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Operating revenues (T Sh million)         377   461   565   692   850   979
Operating expenses (T Sh million)         187   235   297   361   435   507
Operating surplus (T Sh million)          190   226   268   331   415   472
Operating ratio (%)                        50    51    52    52    51    52
Rate of return on revalued assets (%)
before tax                            24    24    24    22    22    23
after tax                             13    12    13    12    12    12
Current ratio (times)                     2.9   3.1   3.4   3.6   4.0   4.7
5.11      TPTC's projected financial performance over the project period is
good.  The operating ratio at 52% and rates of return are considered satis-
factory.  From 1983 to 1985 the current ratio is high due to the local
currency build-up mentioned in paragraph 5.09.
5.12      In respect of tariffs, it has been assumed for the financial pro-
jections that there will be no increases during the project period since
TPTC's rate of return on revalued assets remains acceptable, despite inflation,
due to an almost doubling of DELs during the program period and to an increased
utilization of the services. The present forecasts show the annual rate of
return on the estimated revalued assets to be not less than 12% after tax, and
not less than 22% before tax. Each of these rates is adequate to meet TPTC's
future financial requirements. The payment of tax and interest would result



- 29 -
in a transfer to Government from the telecommunications sector during the
project period of about T Sh 700 million (US$84.0 million) (para. 3.10).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that TPTC would maintain
tariffs at a sufficient level to achieve a rate of return on revalued average
net telecommunications fixed assets of at least 12%, after tax, each year.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the following
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit:
that TPTC and Government had signed a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to the Association, whereby the pro-
ceeds of the IDA credit be onlent to TPTC at an interest
rate of 10% per annum for a period of 20 years, including
a five-year grace period, and with foreign exchange risks
to be borne by TPTC (para. 2.11).
6.02      During negotiations, the following major assurances were obtained
that:
(a) by December 31, 1982, TPTC will have carried out the study of
the impact of improved telecommunications services on the
economic development of Tanzania under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA. Such study shall include a survey on the
usage of telecommunications services by current and potential
customers;
(b) TPTC will study the level and structure of its tariffs; the
study to be completed by December 31, 1982, and that TPTC
would review with IDA the implications of the implementation
of the conclusions of this study not later than June 30, 1983
(para. 3.14);
(c) not later than September 30, 1981, TPTC would propose and
agree with IDA on a method for revaluation of its fixed assets
and would review the value of its fixed assets annually
thereafter for the purposes of calculating the rate of return
(para. 5.07); and
(d) TPTC would maintain tariffs at a sufficient level to achieve
a rate of return on revalued average telecommunications net
fixed assets of at least 12% after taxes each year (para. 5.12).
6.03      Provided the above conditions are met, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit to Government of Tanzania of
SDR 22.1 million (equal to US$27.0 million using the rate SDR 1.00 = US$1.22
equivalent).



- 30 -
A2N.;EX 1
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMOUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
International Telephone Statistics
TELEPHONES - JANUARY 1978
Principal           Rest of        Percent of
National                    Cities            Country         National
1977 Population                           Percent                                                 Principal
(OOOs)                        Per    Average  Autom-              Per               Per        Cities
Prin-                        100     Annual   atiza-             100               100    Pop-
cipal  Rest of    Total    Popu-   Growth    tion  Total    Popu-  Total    Popu-  ula-   Tele-
Country              Total    Cities  Country   (000s)  lation  1969-78    (Z)   (000s)  lation  (COOs)  lation  tion  phones
WORLD                4,138,000         NA        NA  423,082   10.22    6.6          99        NA      NA        NA      NA      NA      NA
AFRICA                 438,000         NA        NA    4,237   12.80    4.3          86        NA      NA        NA      NA      NA      NA
Algeria               18,100    1,991   16,109          298    1.64    7.5         87       176   8.84        122   0.76       10      59
Burundi                4,100         NA        NA         5    0.11    5.5         99         3   0.80         NA      NA      10    100
Ethiopia              28,609    1,855   26,754           79    0.28    9.1        100        60   3.24         19   0.07       6      76
Kenya                 14,384    1,385   12,963          144    1.00    9.3        100       116   8.38         28   0.22      10      81
Madagascar             7,995    1,165    6,830           29    0.36    2.0         94        29   2.09          0   0.00       15    100
Mauritius                 894       143       751        29    3.24    6.8        100        12   8.39         17   2.26       16     40
Nigeria               79,059    2,139   76,920          128    0.16    6.0         30        71   3.32         57   0.07        3     55
Rhodesia               6,860    1,044    5,816          197    2.87    6.0         94       159  15.23         38   0.65      15      81
Rwanda                 4,800         NA        NA         4    0.08    6.5        100         4   0.80         NA      NA     10    100
Seychelles               619        160       459         5    7.37   29.2        100         4  23.73          1   0.17       24     83
South Africa          26,130    8,909   17,221    2,320    8.88    5.8             87    1,703  19.08         617   3.58      34      73
Sudan                 18,000    1,971   16,029           62    0.34    3.8         91        56   2.84          6   0.04      11      90
Tanzania              16,132    1,216   14.916           74    0.46   10.1         80        59   4.80         15   0.10        7     80
Zambia                 4,067    1,855    2,212           54    1.32    2.9         97        44   2.32         10   0.46      46      82
AMERICAS               577,000         NA        NA  192,789   33.41    5.0          99        NA      NA        NA      NA      NA      NA
Brazil               119,004   26,729   92,275    4,708         3.96    7.9        98    3,597  13.46    1,111   1.20         23      77
Canada                22,943   10,308   12,635   14,506   63.23    5.7            100    7,445  72.73    7,061  55.88         45      51
Jamaica                2,000       823    1,177         111    5.55    6.9        100        97  11.79         14   1.19       41     87
Mexico                66,944   25,477   41,467    3,712    5.54   13.6             98    3,133  12.30         579   1.40       38     85
Trinidad & Tobago    1,067          100       967        75    7.03    4.9        100        46  46.00         29   3.00        9     61
United States        217,000   43,441  173,559  161,448   74.40    4.5            100   36,365  83.70  125,083  72.07         20      23
ASIA                 2,319,000         NA        NA   62,877    2.71    9.9          98        NA      NA        NA      NA      NA      NA
Bangladesh            81,800         NA        NA        89    0.01       NA       70        49      NA        40     NA      NA      55
Burma                 31,500    9,000   22,500           33    0.10    4.4         69        27   0.30          6   0.03       29     82
China (Taiwan)        16,866    5,340   11.526    1,685    9.99   22.1            100       986  18.46        699   6.06       32     59
Hong Kong              4,567    4,567        -       1,251   27.39   12.7         100    1,251  27.39          -      -      100    100
India                632,099   31,051  601,048    2,247    0.36    8.8             86    1,200   3.86    1,047   0.17          5      53
Indonesia            138,341   15,036  123,305          325    0.23    6.7         68       249   1.66         76   0.06      11      77
Iraq                  12,500   11,500    1,000          320    2.56   12.7         96       223   1.94         97   9.70      92      70
Isreal                 3,651    1,924    1,727          930   25.47    9.8        100       685  35.60        245  14.19      53      74
Japan                114,620   19,281   95,339   50,626   44.17   10.7             99   11,895  61.69   38,731  40.62         17      23
Korea (South)         35,860   14,643   21,217    1,978    5.20   16.8             97    1,419  12.77         432   0.19      41      71
Malaysia              13,086    1,439   11,647          375    2.86   10.2         99       226  15.70        149   1.28       11     60
Nepal                 13,130        303   12,827          9    0.07    6.4         83         8   2.85          1      -        2     92
Philippines           44,980    8,912   36,068          567    1.26   10.0         95       519   5.82         48   0.13      20      92
Singapore              2,325    2,325        -          455   19.57   16.1        100       455  19.57         -      -      100    100
Sri Lanka             13,970       955   13,015          74    0.52    2.8         97        47   4.92         27   0.21        7     64
Thailand              44,273    6,475   37,798          367    0.83   13.8         97       308   4.76         59   0.16      15      84
EUROPE                 781,000         NA        NA  154,829   19.82    8.0          99        NA      NA        NA      NA      NA     NA
France                53,183    9,664   43,519   17,519   32.94   10.7            100    7,129  73.77   10,390  23.87         18      41
Germany, Fed.Rep.    16,767    4,216   12,551    2,860   17.06    9.3             100    1,173  27.82    1,687  13.44         25      41
Italy                 56,601   20,677   35,924   16,119   28.49    9.3           100    9,236  44.67    6,883  19.16          47      57
Portugal               9,766    1,736    8,030    1,175   12.03    7.4             95       627  36.12        548   6.82      18      53
Spain                 36,230   11,203   25,027       9,528   26.30   12.5          95    4,611  41.16    4,916  19.64          31     48
Sweden                 8,267    3,598    4,669    5,930   71.73    4.6            100    2,882  80.10    3,048  65.28         44      49
Switzerland            6,292    2,173    4,119    4,145   65.88    5.6            100    1,919  88.31    2,226  54.04         36      46
Turkey                41,758    8,343   33,415    1,379    3.30   13.9             81       924  11.08        455   1.36      67      20
United Kingdom        55,844   17,522   38,322   23,182   41.51    7.5            100    9,064  51.73   14,118  36.84          33     39
USSR                 260,000   25,324  234,676   19,600    7.50    8.9             98    5,194  20.51   14,406   6.14          10     26
OCEANIA                 23,000         NA        NA    8,350   36.30    5.6          97        NA      NA        NA      NA      NA      NA
Australia             14,074    8,964    5,110    5,835   41.40    6.2             97    4,435  49.50    1,400  27.50          64     76
Fiji                     588         87       501        33    5.61    9.5         90        16  18.39         17   3.39       15     48
New Zealand            3,146    2,181         965    1,715   54.51    4.5          96    1,308  59.97         410  42.49       69     76
Papua New Guinea       2,914       250    2,664          38    1.30    9.8         99        33  13.20          5   0.19        9     87
Source:  AT&T's "The World's Telephones," a statistical compilation as of January, 1978.  Data for Principal Cities for the
United States and Japan is in respect of cities with 500,000 or more telephones only.



-31-                      ANNEX 2
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Existing Facilities as of December 31, 1979
I.  Local Telephone
Capacity of telephone exchanges, lines                            48,198
of which automatic   "                              35,703
manual   "                             12,495
Number of automatic telephone exchanges                                23
Number of manual telephone exchanges                                  122 1/
Number of telephones                                              88,684
Number of subscriber connections (DEL)                             38,283
Annual growth in DELs (last 4 years) percent                         10.0
Average exchange fill, percent                                       79.4
Unsatisfied demand, number on waiting list                        18,275 2/
II. Long Distance Telephone
Total number of long distance circuits (microwave, VHF,
UHF, HF, tropospheric scatter, line-carrier)                        724
Number of Radiocall Service Subscribers                               227
Number of Radiocall Control Centers                                     3
III.  Telegraph and Telex
Number of telegraph offices                                           149
Number of telex offices                                                 2
Number of telex subscribers                                           426
Unsatisfied demand for telex subscription, number on
waiting list                                                        314
IV. International Facilities (apart from circuits to Kenya
and Uganda)
Number of telephone circuits                                           29
Number of telex circuits                                               28
Number of telegraph circuits                                            4
V.  Staff
Total telecommunications staff                                     3,154
Number of staff per 1,000 DELs                                         77
1/  Does not include places with Radio Call installation only; those are
about 200.
2/  TPTC estimates that, in addition, there is a latent demand amounting
to at least this figure.



- 32 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3 pages
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Description of Works in TPTC's Program, 1980-1984
1.        TPTC's 1980-1984 telecommunications development program has the
following components:
(a) works of this telecommunications project;
(b) other program works, which are to be completed prior to
December 31, 1984; and
(c) works which will be completed after 1984 ("future work").
2.        The following is a brief description of the major works in groups
(a) and (b):
Works in Group (a):
Local Network
(i) to expand the local cable network by about 75,000 pairs
in about 90 cities and towns throughout the country; to
pressurize junction cables and primary cables in Dar-es-
Salaam and to provide dropwire for about 23,000 new
direct exchange lines;
Interurban Network
(ii)  to construct approximately 550 km of overhead line
routes in rural areas and to install about 850 channels
of rural carrier systems;
(iii) to construct about 16 VHF, UHF or microwave links, for
reliable 24-hour connection of regional and district
centers and other rural towns to the telecommunications
network. Telephone service will be introduced at 70
places, mostly rural towns, which have had no access to
two-way telecommunications service--about 30 places will
have public call office and about 40 places a manual
exchange;



-33-                          ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
(iv)  to install multiplex equipment for about 600 channels, in
order to increase the traffic-handling capacity on
congested routes;
(v)  to install equipment for power supply to telecommunications
transmission facilities, with solar cell equipment at about
70 places and with motorgenerators/batteries at about 20
places, most of the places being located in rural areas;
Telex and Gentex Network
(vi)  to provide about 700 teleprinters for telex subscribers
and for the TPTC telegram service, in various parts of
the country;
Support for Installation and Operation
(vii)  to provide cement and other building material to be
imported for a timely completion of the project;
(viii)  to provide spare parts for telecommunications equipment,
for power supply installations, for air conditioning
installations in equipment rooms, and for vehicles
needed for project installations and for operation and
maintenance of telecommunications installations;
(ix)  to provide about 40 specialized or four-wheel-drive
vehicles for handling of cable drums and for other
installation and maintenance work;
Training and Consultancy Services
(x)  to provide a minor amount of training equipment and an
air conditioning plant for the new training center;
(xi)  to provide for fellowships and overseas study tours in
outside plant engineering, construction, and operation,
in stores and supplies management, and in other sectors
of the TPTC's activity, as needed;
(xii)  to provide consultancy services for the study of the impact
of improved telecommunications services on the country's
economic, social, and cultural development, and for various
other purposes; and
(xiii)  to provide a pilot installation of a 4,000-line digital
electronic telephone exchange in Zanzibar city, this installa-
tion to provide basic planning information for a large-scale
introduction of such equipment in various parts of Tanzania.



- 34 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3 pages
Works in Group (b):
Local Network
(i)  to install automatic switching equipment, of a total of
about 54,000 lines, for extension of the capacity of
existing local exchanges and primary centers and for
establishment of new ones;
(ii)  to increase the capacity of manual local switching
(magneto-boards) by about 7,000 lines;
(iii)  to install about 700 private branch exchanges and
about 60,000 telephones;
Interurban Network
(iv)  to increase the interurban switching capacity by about
770 lines and the international by about 350 lines and
to install about 130 automanual switchboards;
(v)  to construct approximately 50 HF, VHF, UHF or microwave
links; and to increase the capacity on heavy-traffic
portions of the existing transmission network;
Telegraph and Telex
(vi)  to replace the present 360 lines' crossbar telex exchange
in Dar-es-Salaam by an electronic exchange for about 900
subscriber lines and to move the crossbar exchange to
Arusha where an increase of capacity is needed;
(vii)  to acquire approximately 700 teleprinters for new telex
subscribers;
(viii)  to quadruple the capacity of the voice frequency telegraph
network; and
Training
(ix) to complete the construction of the new training center
for about 300 students (of which 240 boarders), and to
move the main training activities to this center.



- 35 -                                    ANNEX 4
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Program and Project Costs
T Sh (millions)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984     Total
Local Network
Cables and drop wires                               -       56.5     35.7      34.4      16.4    143.0
Interurban Network
Overhead lines and rural/line carrier               -        5.0      4.0       3.0       3.0      15.0
VHF, UHF and microwave link                         -       12.7     22.1      10.4       3.8      49.0
Multiplex equipment                                 -        1.0      6.0       2.0         -       9.0
Power supply equipment                              -        2.0      1.0       1.3        .7       5.0
Telex and Gentex
Teleprinters                                        -       3.9      14.1         -         -     18.0
Support for Installation and Operations
Civil Works materials                               -        3.0      3.0       2.0         -       8.0
Spare parts                                         -       4.0       4.0         -         -      8.0
Vehicles                                            -        2.0      2.0       1.0         -       5.0
Pilot Project                                       -          -      1.7       9.1       6.6      17.4
Training
Training equipment and air conditioning             -        6.0      6.0       5.0         -     17.0
Fellowships, study tours, and
consulting services                               -         .2      1.0       1.2        .3      2.7
Project Base Costs                                    -       96.3    100.6      69.4      30.8    297.1
Physical contingencies                              -       4.9       4.9       3.0       1.2     14.0
Price contingencies                                 -      11.0      25.2      25.4      17.4     79.0
Total Project Costs                                   -      112.2    130.8      97.8      49.4    390.1
Other Program Costs
(inclusive of contingencies)                   301.3      248.8    284.1    324.1    166.1   1324.4
Total Program Costs                                         361.0    414.       421.9    215.5   1714.5



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements During   Cumulative Disbursements
IDA                             Quarter              at end of Quarter
Fiscal Year & Quarter                     US$000's                US$000's
1981
June 1981                                    0                       0
1982
September 1981                               0                       0
December 1981                                0                       0
March 1982                                 250                     250
June 1982                                  500                     750
1983
September 1982                             500                   1,250
December 1982                            1,000                   2,250
March 1983                               1,250                   3,500
June 1983                                2,300                   5,800
1984
September 1983                          1,500                    7,300
December 1983                            2,000                   9,300
March 1984                               2,000                  11,300
June 1984                                3,200                  14,500
1985
September 1984                           2,000                  16,500
December 1984                            3,500                  20,000
March 1985                               3,500                  23,500
June 1985                                2,000                  25,500
1986
September 1985                             500                  26,000
December 1985                              500                  26,500
March 1986                                 500                  27,000



TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
Telecommunications Project
Implementation Schedule
1981                  1982                   1983                    1984                   1985
,~~~ .                                                    2-   a_ -  4     -_-  --  -_ - -_ - -4-
1     2         3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3      4    1    2    3    4        1    2 __3    4
Local Cable Networks                            D3   -                                                                                           a  
Interurban Network
Overhead Lines and Carrier                              __
VHF Links and Rural Call Offices                              O                 - _  _                 -    - .          - _
UHF and Microwave Links                          D3_
Multiplex Equipment                                                                   -    -    -
Telex Teleprinters                                      CO ,    _      0    -      -   _-
Power Supply Equipment                                                   -               -                      -
Civil Construction Material
Spare Parts                                                         4I
Air-Conditioning for Training Center
and Vehicles                                             O3         ^       --- _4
Pilot Project                                           C                          -
Fellowships, Study Tours, Consultancy
Services                                                         --                                                                 
M ARCH 19, 1981____                                                                                        _     _     _     __               _     _l_X
0 Distribution of calls for bids                                             World Ban k-22692
O Signing of contract and start of implementation
I Completion of implementation, preliminary acceptance



- 38 -                      ANNEX 7
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
A set of indicators which would assist in monitoring TPTC's
future performance during the project period is given below. TPTC is
expected to indicate in its periodical progress report to the Bank the
actual performance relating to the projected figures.
For Fiscal Year Ending December 31:         1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
1.  Additional telephone connections
(DELs) installed                     5,400   6,000   6,800   7,700         -
2.  Additional telex lines installed        110     130      160      200       -
3.  Number of employees per 1,00
DELs                                     72      67       63       58      58
4.  Gross operating revenues
(T Sh million)                         461      565      692     850      979
5.  Operating ratio (%)                      51      52       52       51      52
6.  Rate of return on revalued
assets before tax (%)                    24      24       22       22      23
after tax (%)                   12       13      12       12       12
7.  Current ratio (times)                   3.1     3.4      3.6      4.0     4.7
8.  Subscriber accounts receivables
(as % of total telecommunications
revenues)                                40      35       30       25      25
9.  Training (student-weeks)-L/           8,500  10,500  12,000  14,000  14,000
10.  Faults per DEL per year
(average for all regions)              2.3      2.0      1.8     1.5      1.5
11.  Duration of faults (%):
-less than 24 hours                      54      58       62       65      65
-24 hours or more                        46      42       38       35      35
12.  Vehicles in garage for service
or repair (average vehicle--
calendar-days per year)                 100      60       45       30      30
/1  One-third of the figures relate to postal training.



- 39 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3 pages
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Telecommunications Tariffs and Charges
(in effect since February 1975)
T Sh
A. Telephone
1. Annual rental for a single telephone:-/
Individual line                                          480.00
Shared line                                              400.00
2. Installation costs:
Initial charge for an installation at not more
than 5.2 km from a central office2/                    300.00
Deposit is only required in certain cases and
then with an amount decided specifically
3. Call charges:
For an untimed local call                                  0.65
For an operator-timed interurban call, charge
per minute (3 minute-minimum), depending on
radial distance between caller and called                     3
station                                              1.30-9.1G0-
For an interurban call dialed by the subscriber,
a unit fee of T Sh 0.65 is charged for a
duration of call varying with the distance
between the caller and the called station,
from 30 seconds to 4.3 seconds. During
"reduced rate period" the call duration for
one unit charge is doubled
For an international call:
To Kenya or Uganda the same as for an inter-
urban call within Tanzania
1/ Additional charge for multiple telephone.
2/ For greater distance an additional charge is made.
3/ For a call during "reduced rate period" the charge is one half.



- 40 -                   ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3 pages
T Sh
To other countries, examples of charges per
minute (with a minimum charge for three
minutes):
Ethiopia, Zambia                                      16.00
United Kingdom, Sweden                                24.00
United States                                         30.00
Brazil                                                40.00
B. Telegrams
1. Internal tariff:
Ordinary telegram, per word (10 words minimum
charge)                                                  0.30
Urgent telegram, per word (10 words minimum
charge)                                                  0.60
Press telegram, minimum charge for up to 40 words          1.65
For additional 10 words or part thereof                  0.65
Greetings telegram, with a choice of 50 standard
texts, per telegram                                      1.50
Extra charge for de luxe form                            0.75
Transmission and delivery of telegram through
telex ("printergram service"):  telex call charge    75.00
Telegraphic address, per year
2. International tariff:
Ordinary telegram, examples of charge per word
(with a minimum charge for seven words):
To Burundi, Rwanda, Ethiopia                           1.50
To Zambia                                              0.85
To United Kingdom                                      2.60
To Sweden                                              5.30
To USA                                                 3.10
To Brazil                                              8.30
For certain destinations letter-telegrams are
accepted with the charge being one half of
charge for ordinary telegram and minimum
number of words being 22
Urgent telegram, charge per word double that of
ordinary telegram
Press telegram, the charge being approximately
one third of that of ordinary telegram, with a
minimum charge for 14 words
C. Telex
1.  Annual rental charge for a basic installationh           8,000.00
1/ For ancillary apparatus, like preperforator and autotransmitter,
additional charges are made.



- 41 -                  ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3 pages
T Sh
2. Installation costs:
The connection charge for a basic installationk/
within 5.2 km from the exchange_!                    1,500.00
3. Call charges:
For inland calls, manually connected, charge per
three minute period, depending on the radial
distance between the "charge points"                 1.60-9.60
For inland calls, automatically switched, time
length of writing per unit charge (at T Sh 0.80)
varies with distance between "charge periods"
from 90 seconds to 15 seconds
For international calls, examples of charges per
minute of writing (with a minimum charge for
three minutes):
To Burundi, Rwanda                                    21.00
To Ethiopia, Zambia                                   15.00
To United Kingdom                                     30.00
To Sweden                                             32.00
To USA, Brazil                                        43.00
1/ For ancillary apparatus, like preperforator and autotransmitter,
additional charges are made.
2/ Additional charge for longer distance.



- 42 -                      ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3 pages
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Study of Tariff Structure
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The purpose of the study is to develop the principles which should
guide formulation of an appropriate structure of tariffs for telecommunica-
tions services in Tanzania, and to apply these principles in the form of a
recommended structure of tariffs for application for 1982 through 1984.
2.        The basic approach to establishing an appropriate tariff structure
will be that of marginal cost pricing, with the constraint that overall
revenue generation must be sufficient to ensure financial viability of the
telecommunications entity. Marginal cost, or the amount which would be
saved to the economy if marginal demand (e.g., an additional telephone line,
an additional call) were not met, may take either of two forms:
(a) cost to the telecommunications entity of supply, where
capacity exists to meet the demand; and
(b) cost to the other competing user of doing without the
service, where capacity is insufficient to meet the
demand.
Thus the study has to have both a cost accounting dimension and a demand
assessment dimension, as well as to include a financial analysis to assess
the adequacy of revenues generated from the point of view of financial
viability.
Cost Accounting
3.        The purpose of this part of the work is to identify the marginal
costs of the principal different telecommunications services offered,
distinguishing between Dar-es-Salaam, major regional towns and country areas:
(a) provision of telephone connection;
(b) local calls;
(c) long distance calls;



- 43 -                     ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3 pages
(d) international calls; and
(e) telex, and same subcategories.
Such costs will be specified in 1981 values.
4.        The base of the calculations will be:
(a) financial accounts of the enterprise;
(b) operating records of the enterprise;
(c) spot-checks to establish on a sample basis the marginal
costs of particular services; and
(d) relevant data available from other telecommunications
administrations.
Demand Assessment
5.        The purpose of this part of the work is to assess the strengths of
demand for each of the different services offered by the telecommunications
entity, and the sensitivity of that demand to the prices which might be
charged. This is needed for two purposes: (a) in order to estimate the
cost to users (or potential users) of doing without the service, for cases
where it is not possible to meet demand fully; and (b) in order to identify
those services which are in least elastic demand (i.e., demand will be
least affected by price changes), so that they should be made to bear the
major part of any mark-up necessary to cover overheads and enable the tele-
communications entity to attain overall financial viability.
6.        This work will require thorough review of existing records on
applications for service, calling rates, ineffective calls, etc., followed
by surveys of a sample of existing and potential users in order to deepen
knowledge of the strength of demand for the different services and of the
amounts that customers would be prepared to pay for the different services
(or that they would suffer as losses, or extra expenses, if the services
were not available).
Social and Developmental Considerations
7.        Attention must be given, in connection with the Demand Assessment,
to the possible need to charge certain incipient users, e.g., services in
distant rural areas, or public call offices, at rates below those that would
be indicated by marginal cost and financial viability considerations, as a
means to stimulate socially highly desirable use. Certain limited cross-
subsidization of this nature may be a worthwhile means of bringing telecom-
munications facilities within the reach of development centers and poorer
people who would otherwise be excluded.



- 44 -                     ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3 pages
Financial Analysis
8.        The approximate tariffs for the different services (some of which
may turn out to need to be cost-based while others may need to be more
demand-based) must then be multiplied by estimated levels of service require-
ments to assess total revenues for 1981 and the following five years. These
should be compared with updated projections of costs, to assess the future
financial status of the enterprise.
9.        Iterations may be required in order to produce a structure of
tariffs that is consistent with financial viability.
Final Results
10.       The results of the study should be a recommended set of prices for
the various services, with alternative possibilities where appropriate, and
projections of the effect of application of such prices on the enterprise's
revenues and financial performance. Recommendations should also be made as
to how the tariffs should be adjusted over time in light of changes in costs
including inflation.
Resources Required
11.       The study will require approximately six weeks of effort on the
part of an economist, a financial analyst and an engineer, each with experi-
ence in telecommunications, and supplemented by the necessary staff to
assist with survey work.



-45 -                       ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2 pages
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investment
1.        The benefit period of the program extends from 1980-2000, when on
average the equipment provided under the program is expected to have sub-
stantially completed its useful life.
2.        Capital expenditures are based on the estimated requirements during
the program period, excluding preinvestments for future programs. Asset
values have been adjusted to reflect 1980 values.
3.        Incremental revenues assigned to the program are primarily based
on the expected additional telephone and telex subscribers and the traffic
increase brought about by the program. Incremental costs excluding depreci-
ation and interest are based on the additional assets, traffic and staff
requirements expected from the program. All revenues and costs have been
deflated to bring them to their comparable 1980 price levels.
4.        A summary of the program's incremental cost and benefit stream at
1980 price levels is as follows (in T Sh millions):
Capital        Operating
Year        Expenditure    Costs    Revenues    Benefits
1980            459            -           -        -459
1981            303           15          70        -248
1982            237           33         139        -131
1983            127           53         218           38
1984             55           68         287         164
1985-2000            -          81         315          234
5.        The internal rate of return for the above benefit stream is 17%.
6.        Applying a shadow price for foreign exchange of US$1.00 = T-Sh 12.0,
and estimating the future consumer surplus by tabulating over the program
period the prices in real terms (1980 level) which existing subscribers and
applicants are demonstrating a willingness to pay, and assuming that new



- 46 -                      ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2 pages
subscribers are prepared to pay the same real amount, the economic rate of
return is 24%. Labor has not been shadow priced as TPTC mostly employs
skilled staff of which there is no surplus in Tanzania.
7.        A sensitivity analysis on the above rate of return shows that with
10% higher capital costs and 10% lower revenues the rate of return will be 19%.



TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION ITPTC)
Organization Chart
| Board of Directors |
Off ice ofteCarairoctor Genetal                                                              _     Office of the
CO",B tionScea                                                                                   D irec tor Ge net al
Director Research           Public Relationis
and Corporate
Planning
Resouirce Planning     Operational           Network          Transmission &
& Project                                                                         Postal
Scheduling           Planning         OEngineerig        Power Engineering
Assistant Director General              Assistant Director General
Operations & Developinent               Finance & Administration
|   Director Internal    l      n         Director Finance
1    Telecommunications   i                  and Accounts
Director External/II
_   Telecormmunications              Accoults          Finance        Computer
_    Director Postal                  .;      Developmenit &
_}DDirector Buildingsa:                                          t
18 Regional Managers
Regional Manager
I        .        
iHead Telecom.        Head Postal | f Heads Traffic|
munications               Section  | I Section      I
Section
World Bank - 21686



- 48 -                                                 ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Profit and Loss Accounts
19781Y     197911    1980        1981        1982       1983       1984       1985
DELs at year end (000's)                          35.0       38.3       43.1        48.5       54.5       61.3       69.0       69.0
Average revenue/DEL (T Sh)                       7,600      7,900      8,300      9,130    10,043    11,047    12,152    13,367
Telexes (nos.)                                     350        426         515        624        755        913      1,115      1,115
Average revenue/telex (T Sh)                   121,000   108,000   112,000   112,000   112,000   112,000   112,000   112,000
Average DEL (000's)                               33.3       36.6       40.7        45.8       51.5       57.9       65.2       69.0
Average telex (nos.)                               321        388      470.5       569.5      689.5      834.0   1,014.0   1,115.0
T Sh (million)
Operating Revenue
Telephone revenue (T Sh million)                 255.0      288.0      337.8      418.2       517.2      639.6      791.7      922.3
Telex revenue (T Sh million)                      39.0       46.0       52.7       63.8        77.2       93.4      113.6      124.9
Connection charges                                 3.0        3.0        2.9         4.1        4.6        5.2        6.0        6.0
Miscellaneous                                     15.0       15.0       17.0        17.0       18.0       18.0       18.0       18.0
312.0      352.0      410.4      503.1      617.0       756.2      929.3   1,071.0
Less international fees                           14.0       23.0       33.8       41.8        51.7       64.0       79.2       92.2
TOTAL NET REVENUES                               298.0      329.0      376.6      461.3       565.3      692.2      850.1      979.0
Operating Costs
lleadquarters and operating                       49.0       62.0       65.6        68.9       72.3       75.9       78.7       82.6
Accommodations                                    10.0       11.0       11.4        12.0       12.6       13.2       13.9       14.6
Maintenance                                       22.0       29.0       31.9        42.0       54.7       67.8       78.8       84.2
Training                                           7.0       10.0        9.9        10.4       10.9       11.4       12.0       12.6
Miscellaneous                                     21.0       11.0       10.0        10.0       10.0       11.0       11.0       11.0
Depreciation                                      17.0       27.0       38.0        50.0       65.6       81.3       94.6      101.0
Pension                                            7.0        7.0        7.1         7.5        7.9        8.3        8.7        9.1
Total costs before inflation,
interest and tax                              133.0       157.0      173.9      200.8      234.0      268.9       297.7      315.1
Inflation                                           -          -        12.2       32.6        60.6       89.6      134.3      188.0
Total costs before tax and interest              133.0      157.0      186.1      233.4       294.6      358.5      432.0      503.1
Loss on posts (estimated)                           -         (1)        1.0         1.5        2.0        2.5        3.0        3.5
TOTAL COSTS                                      133.0      156.0      187.1      234.9       296.6      361.0      435.0      506.6
Net before tax and interest                      165.0      173.0      189.5      226.4       268.7      331.2      415.1      472.4
Interest                                          11.0       12.0       17.5       34.0        43.7       59.0       69.0       63.1
Taxable surplus                                  154.0      161.0      172.0      192.4       225.0      272.2      346.1      409.3
Taxation                                          70.0       60.0       86.0       96.2       112.5      136.1      173.1      204.6
NET PROFIT                                        84.0      101.0       86.0       96.2       112.5      136.1      173.0      204.7
/1  Unaudited accounts, taxation for 1978 and 1979 is provisional.  1980-85 accounts are projections.



- 49 -                    ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions with Respect to Projected
Profit and Loss Accounts
1.        As per program forecasts DEL's are increased at about 12-1/2%
per annum.
2.        Average revenue/DEL anticipated to increase at 10% per annum
reflecting both improved and expanded services.
3.        Telex machines are increased at 20% per annum as per program
forecast.
4.        Telex revenue is held constant reflecting no increase due to
compensation by greater use of telephones.
5.        Headquarters and operating and accommodations estimated to increase
at 5% per annum in real terms.
6.        Maintenance equivalent to 5% of gross assets in real terms.
7.        Depreciation equivalent to 6% of gross assets.
8.        Inflation is based on 8% per annum on foreign exchange content
of operating costs and 17% per annum for local costs.
9.        Taxation estimated at 50% of taxable surplus assuming depreciation
equivalent to capital expenditure allowances.



- 50 -                       ANNEX 13
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Estimated Source and Application of Funds
(T Sh million)
1980      1981    1982    1983        1984
Sources
Net profits                             86.0      96.2   112.5    136.1        173.0
Add depreciation                        38.0      50.0    65.6       81.3       94.6
Self generated funds                  124.0      146.2   178.1    217.4       267.6
Net borrowings                         241.0     290.0   332.5    339.0        171.1
Total Sources                    365.0      436.2   510.6    556.4       438.7
Applications
Program investments                   301.3      361.1   414.8    421.9        215.5
Increase (decrease) in-/ net
current assets, non operational
assets and reserves                     63.7      75.2    95.8    134.5       223.2
Total Applications               365.0      436.2   510.6    556.4       438.7
Self-generated contributions
to program investments (%)                41         40      43        52        124
/1  The large buildup in current assets is represented by cash being the result
of having to borrow foreign exchange while at the same time having plenty
of local currency.



- 51 -                                        ANNEX 14
Page I of 2
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Balance Sheets
(T Sh million)
1!         1/
1978-      1979-      1980       1981        1982       1983       1984       1985
ASSETS
Fixed Assets - Gross                             482        573      637.2      839.3   1,093.5   1,355.5   1,576.5   1,684.4
Accumulated depreciation                         163        187      224.3      274.3       339.9      421.2      515.8      616.8
                                                              319        386      412.9      565.0      753.6      934.3   1,060.7   1,067.6
Postal net fixed assets                          100        118      145.5      172.5       199.5      226.5      253.5      253.5
Work in progress                                  71        130      339.3      471.2       604.5      737.4      702.4      597.0
Materials and supplies                            52        100      100.0      100.0       109.4      135.6      157.6      168.4
Financial assets                                 100        109      116.1      123.6       131.5      139.8      148.5      157.6
Current Assets
Stores                                          24         26       28.7       37.8       49.2        61.0       70.9       75.8
Receivables                                    182        170      184.7      201.2      216.0       226.9      232.3      267.8
Prepayments                                     24         54       38.0       46.2       57.8        70.0       85.0      101.3
Cash                                           115        119      178.4      220.4      315.1      457.6       724.8   1.048.2
Subtotal                                         345        369      429.8      505.6      638.1       815.5   1,113.0   1,493.1
TOTAL ASSETS                                     987      1,212   1,5436   1,93_7.9   2,436.6   2.989.1   3.435.7   3.737.2
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves                             456        540      641.1      727.1      823.3       935.8   1,071.9   1,244.9
Add surplus for year                            84        101       86.0       96.2       112.5      136.1      173.0      204.7
Subtotal                                         540        641      727.1      823.3      935.8   1,071.9   1,244.9   1,449.6
Net Long-Term Debt                               188        257      498.0      788.0   1,120.5   1,459.5   1,630.6   1,630.6
Reserve Funds
Pension and sinking funds                    129         132      144.4      164.5      192.5      233.8.    284.4        335.6
Current Liabilities
Postal orders                                   22         20       21.0       22.0       23.0       25.0        27.0       30.0
Tax                                             70        130       86.0       96.2      112.5       136.1      173.1      204.6
Interest                                         4          5        5.0        5.0        5.0         5.0        5.0        5.0
Mail conveyance                                  1          2        2.0        2 0         2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
International traffic                           26         24       28.7       35.5       43.9       54.4        67.3       78.4
Others                                           7          1        1.4        1.4         1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4
Subtotal                                         130        182      144.1      162.1      187.8       223.9      275.8      321.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                987      1,212   1,543.6   1,937.9   2.436.6   2,989.1   3.435.7   3,737.2
Revalued average net operating assets                                703.0      854.0   1,113.0   1,381.0   1,679.0   1,866.0
Rate of return on revalued assets
before tax (%)                                                      24         24         24         22          22         23
after tax (%)                                                       13         12         13          12         12         12
/1 Unaudited accounts, 1980-1985 are projections.



- 52 -                      ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Notes to Balance Sheet
1.        Increase in gross fixed assets is related to transfer in work in
progress as such work becomes revenue-producing. Work in progress on
average is transferred to fixed assets equally over the succeeding two years.
2.        Materials and supplies is built up to remain at about 10% of
gross fixed assets.
3.        Financial assets represents investment in Intelsat and pension
funds.
4.        Receivables are estimated on the following % of gross telecommuni-
cations revenues: 1980, 40%; 1981, 35%; 1982, 30%; and 25% thereafter.
5.        Net long term debt is made up of bilateral loans and multilateral
onlending.
6.        Fixed assets are revalued at 6% per annum and net surplus to
calculate rate of return is adjusted for increased depreciation charge
necessary following such asset revaluation.



- 53 -                      ANNEX 15
TANZANIA
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.  General Reports and Studies on the Sector
1. Telecommunications Sector Report No. 2352
2. Project Identification Report
B.  General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1. 1980-1984 Program Detailed Plans
2. TPTC Act
3. TPTC Training Plans
C. Selected Working Papers
1. Project Costs
2. Internal Rate of Return Calculations
3. Schedule of Disbursements
4. Debt Statement and Analysis
5. TPTC Projected Financial Statements, Working Papers
and Assumptions



Rt,l,ANOA E--                                                       TAFM- ,f-T.                                                                                                      P           pi i  |'T
-;                    \/                                           ' +       00           )2>       <          <<0i                               ;;          ;;;  i      -AAA44144
44      ;            ER(7     K A --A             Cuu8                     - --  '/ 1DL                                                        0Ti                           
/  MPJ EMBERA   JEREWE Et+--I&/                                                                                                                   /    POE
. li: 1.l gR Ut ri n ! <> L > g > 1 . &;: 2: : w < V J;2. . 6!A $: tt rM44. ~                                               A               N A                                                            ---
RWANDA                        E)Wm7-                                                                                                                                                     -
P     Ri Ot )    \         'N C1 ,R R E M E R'f                   i 9 ' 7  E E s         h.,0 <\'i;2i    
-.                                                                      -     A  r   r    I A
2 ;; : ::  :2 (0 NlmE. _X_    |rLV\  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAH  R:E B fC  tX,E>                                                    0         -\  r- =i                     1         ; N
5 00 v -<             K9                                                                                                          4  
- _ < . _ _: r 2 _ h ,9 - sh boo~~~~~~~~~                                                                                A1~ B               
144444  -  -K              S144 -\                            B.444A5A          ~~~TANZANIA
-- U           -IE0/,AAGIPR                                                                                                                                     TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EtC  - 51       EL                           ~~~PROJECT
U  UE  (  '       -          IA  ENE44    4           E4
JRAMB2E1 3p-lAA4  Nd-H1AI
*            A4A444444RP E4 -- 444I 9
mp~~~~~~-R~~ ~                                0          I      M.-eI 1414,E4- E.Ah-yR
KIC ONI A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                                                ATI044
wj('A                                                                            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  A rp-~~~~H  e~   A C
Rl N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
7A[ R E                                        WIF YA                                                                              x,~~~~~~~~~~~~~K(A'E    -  :o    - E  R,-,
1    T RI H     E~~~~RASERi 
7  ~      4brrnBo~~0
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MtZMIU 
_                    44~~                                                  ___                                    A7



