Document of
The World Bank                       FILE CuOPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3081-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 1, 1981
This doement has  restrited distribuion and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of  |
their official duties. Its Contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =   Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00                 =   US$0.12
US$1.00                  =   TSh 8.30
US$1.00                  =   SDR 0.817472
SDR 1.00                 =   US$1.223283
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket
of the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report
were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.30 which is close to the 1979/80 average
exchange rate. The US$/SDR exchange rate used in this report is that
of February 27, 1981.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DELs      -   Direct Exchange Lines
EAC       -   East African Community
EAPTC     -   East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
km        -   Kilometer (1,000 meters)
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MOP       -   Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
MCT       -   Ministry of Communications and Transport
TPTC      -   Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
UHF       -   Ultra High Frequency Radio Circuit
VHF       -   Very High Frequency Radio Circuit
FISCAL YEAR
Government:            July 1 - June 30
TPTC:                  January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:        Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC)
Amount:             SDR 22.1 million (US$27 million) equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:  The proceeds of the credit would be onlent by the Govern-
ment to TPTC at 10% interest per annum for 20 years,
including 5 years of grace. TPTC would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project             The project would cover part of TPTC's current investment
Description:       program (1980-84).  It would improve telecommunications
services through extending local services and providing
reliable urban and long distance networks. It would also
provide basic telecommunications facilities to rural areas
and to Zanzibar. Specifically, the project would finance:
(a) construction of about 550 km of overhead line routes;
of about 12 VHF or UHF radio links and of 4 microwave
links; installation of power supply equipment and of
about 850 channels of rural carriers; of about 600
additional channels of multiplex equipment in broadband
transmission systems; and of a digital telephone
exchange in Zanzibar;
(b) expansion of the local cable network at about 90
urban and rural centers; provision of dropwire
and of about 700 teleprinters;
(c) importation of cement and other construction materials;
(d) provision of an air-conditioning plant, vehicles,
training equipment and spare parts; and
(e) provision for studies, overseas training and fellowships.
The project faces limited risks. TPTC is capable of imple-
menting the project satisfactorily, and as the project
comprises a relatively large number of independent activities,
delay in the completion of a few works is not expected to
prevent the use of other newly created assets. The project
also includes features designed to reduce, if not eliminate,
causes of delay.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Estimated
Project Costs:                                     Local   Foreign  Total 1/
-US$ Million-------
Local Network Facilities                        8.7      10.4      19.1
Inter-urban and Rural Network Facilities        2.8       6.7       9.5
Telex and Gentex Network (Teleprinters)         0.2       2.0       2.2
Vehicles, Spare Parts, and Imported
Building Materials                         0.4       2.1      2.5
Training Facilities, Fellowships and
Consultancy Services                       1.3       1.0      2.3
Sub-Total                             13.4     22.2      35.6
Physical Contingencies                          0.6       1.0       1.6
Price Contingencies                             6.0       3.8       9.8
Total Project Cost                        20.0     27.0      47.0
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign  Total 1/
-----US$ Million------
IDA                                              -       27.0      27.0
TPTC                                           20.0       -        20.0
Total Project Cost                        20.0      27.0     47.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
---------US$ Million-----------
Annual                0.8    5.0    8.7   11.0    1.5
Cumulative            0.8    5.8   14.5   25.5   27.0
Rate of Return:   24%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 3133-TA dated April 2, 1981.
1/   The project is exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 22.1 million (US$27.0 million)
equivalent on standard terms to help finance a telecommunications project.
The proceeds of the credit would be relent by the Government to the Tanzania
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC) at an interest rate of 10% per
annum for 20 years, including 5 years of grace. TPTC would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Tanzania in March and again in June
1980. Its report (3086-TA) dated January 23, 1981, has been distributed
to the Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is
given in Annex I.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest industrial
base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and trained
personnel. For the first six years after Independence, the Government's
development objectives resembled those of many other less developed countries,
stressing growth in per capita income and national self-sufficiency in
skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital-intensive agricultural
projects. This approach had a number of drawbacks, such as high investment
costs in the agricultural sector, and led in the Government's view to unaccept-
able economic and social conditions, such as widening income differentials and
unequal opportunities for advancement in the rural areas. In response to this
situation, the national development strategy was reassessed in 1967. The new
priorities, enunciated in the Arusha Declaration and related policy statements,
were directed towards establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis
on broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and
the development of mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with
guidance from the Party 1/, was expected to play the leading role, especially
in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This led in the late
1/   The single mainland political party at the time was TANU, but in February
1977, it merged with Zanzibar's Afro-Shirazi Party to form the Revolu-
tionary Party, or Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCMi).



- 2 -
1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and finance;
the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of ujamaa (coopera-
tive) villages, the decentralization of government (1972); and the mass
campaign of villagization (1974-76).
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Primary school enrollments
increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years, and access
to safe water increased in both the rural and urban areas. GDP grew by 4.4%
per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24% of GDP from 1970 to 1973,
and domestic resource mobilization improved with recurrent revenues rising
from 15% of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in the mid 1970s.   However, the productive
sectors grew slowly and the rate of return on new investment (which was
centered on the industry and transport sectors) was poor. Perhaps the princi-
pal disappointment was in agriculture, the dominant sector in the economy,
which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to 1973. This growth was also
uneven among regions and precluded any narrowing of rural-urban income differ-
entials. Tanzania made rapid progress towards localizing key posts in the
economy, but large gaps in manpower requirements remained. Dependence on
foreign aid to finance both domestic investment and the widening balance of
payments gap also increased. By 1973, the issues which were to be so important
for Tanzania throughout the 1970s were becoming clear: How quickly could a
country with limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the
expense of efficiency and incentives; how long would the country afford these
costs?   What could be done to improve the growth rate of the monetized,
productive sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania. Also affected by
disruptive changes in the rural areas at this time (decentralization and
villagization), agricultural production plummeted and there was a serious
shortfall in foodgrain production. The Government was forced into the world
market, making large purchases of foodgrain for cash. Food imports rose from
US$39 million in 1973 to US$149 million in 1974 and US$136 million in 1975.
Export crop production also fell during this period and the barter terms of
trade dropped by 22.5% from 1974 to 1975. Combined with the drop in export
volumes, the income terms of trade fell by about one-third during these two
years. As a result, the current account deficit rose from US$118 million in
1973 to around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the
recurrent budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from
TSh. 416 million in 1973/74 to TSh. 753 million in 1974/75 and TSh. 1,061
million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the short-
term effects of the crisis and was able to receive some assistance from the
IMF and a program loan from the Bank. Under this program, import levels were
tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government development expenditures 1/
1/   Government development expenditures account for about two-thirds of
public sector investment, which in turn accounts for 50-60% of total
investment.



- 3 -
were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the Tanzania shilling was
devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices for food crops were substan-
tially increased and at the same time, the National Milling Corporation was
instructed to purchase a number of drought-resistant crops such as cassava,
sorghum, and pigeon peas in addition to the usual foodgrains like maize.
While these steps were taken to increase food production, they also discour-
aged the production of export crops, weakened the financial position of NMC
and required the banking system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC.
Aside from the devaluation, little scope was given to market forces and
Tanzania made no basic changes in its system of administered prices and
government controls. Indeed, the Government introduced more controls and
administered prices after the Crisis. The basic weaknesses of the economy
persisted: declining export volumes, limited trained manpower, disappointing
growth in the monetized and productive sectors, and poor maintenance of
existing capital stock and infrastructure, especially in agriculture and
transport.
7.        The Government program, boosted greatly by the coffee boom of 1977,
increased foreign assistance and reasonable weather for agriculture, was able
to keep the economy in balance until 1978. The current account deficit fell
to less than US$100 million in 1976 and less than US$175 million in 1977 well
below the 1975 deficit of US$340 million. The Government made a net repayment
of TSh. 24 million to the banking system in 1976/77. During 1978, the overly
stringent import controls were relaxed at the same time as the terms of trade
began to deteriorate again. The balance of payments went into deficit and
foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in October 1978, the country was
invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting war, the oil price increases of
1979 and flooding and drought in different parts of Tanzania led to a worsen-
ing balance of payments deficit and the Government built up major arrears on
its import payments for the first time since Independence. The domestic
budget fell heavily into deficit as expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50%
from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and revenues improved by only 10%. As a result,
government borrowing from the banking system increased from TSh. 600 million
in 1977/78 to more than TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the
major factor in money supply growth, which exceeded 53% in this period.
8.        According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this latter
trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture, which
seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project experience and
the known marketed surpluses of food.  Assuming a more realistic growth
rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture, overall GDP growth since
1973 would also be reduced to 4.0% per annum. With population growing
by around 3.3% per annum, this implies an increase in per capita GDP of only
0.7% per annum.  There also has been a change in the structure of the economy
over the past six years, away from the productive monetary sector and towards
subsistence and service activities. Excluding public administration, commer-
cial services and trade, the monetary sector has grown by only 2.3% per annum
over the past six years, well below the population growth rate. This change
in the structure of the economy has been a major factor hampering the Govern-
ment's efforts to mobilize domestic resources.



- 4 -
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic savings
or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign savings had
financed 20%-40% of domestic investment. However, the dependence on foreign
savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic investment during the crisis
years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major shortfalls in domestic
savings have occurred in the Government sector, where they have actually been
negative in some years since 1975. The low return on investments is reflected
in the incremental capital-output ratio (ICOR) for the monetary sector, which
was around 4.5 at the start of the decade and rose to between 6 and 7 by the
end of it.
10.       Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania, account-
ing for 90% of total employment, 50% of GDP and 80% of exports. The long term
trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept pace with popula-
tion growth and if anything has fallen in more recent years as the initial
expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has been reversed.
This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by the limitations of the
natural environment. Although the importance of rural development has con-
tinuously been highlighted in Government statements, including the Arusha
Declaration and successive plans, this has not always been reflected in the
allocation of resources to the agricultural sector or in policy formulation
and implementation. The general direction of the Government s post-Arusha
agriculture strategy has also tended to emphasize the transformation of the
institutional structure of rural development (through the formation of villages
and increasing public involvement in the sector) over measures designed to
improve agricultural production directly. Many of these institutional changes
were introduced too rapidly, without careful planning or sufficient recognition
that by themselves they could not compensate for inadequate incentives and
shortages of skilled manpower and managers. More recently there has been a
greater awareness of the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments
attest to the Government's willingness to use them to influence the pattern
of agricultural production. The trend towards greater public involvement in
agriculture has also continued and with the resultant proliferation of para-
statals and increasingly complex structure of administration, the available
manpower has been stretched even more thinly. This has resulted in weakened
capacity for policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of
research and extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other
on-farm supplies and equipment. Also related to the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Roads, railways
and water transport have deteriorated owing to a lack of spare parts, poor
maintenance and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The decline in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks,
and external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe
deterioration in the balance of payments over the past two to three years.
Export volumes are estimated to have fallen by 7% during 1980, to a level
one-third below the peaks of the mid-1960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, the
terms of trade have declined by 27% since the coffee boom of 1977, due to a
sharp increase in import costs, especially for petroleum, at a time when the
overall level of export prices has been rising very slowly. Owing to these



- 5 -
adverse developments, the purchasing power of Tanzania-s exports ii. 1980 was
one-third lower than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. Part of
this shortfall has been made good by additional external resources, including
a sharp increase in commodity and program aid to more than US$200 million in
1980, as well as by drawings under the IMF standby program concluded in
September 1980. But Tanzania has also had to utilize large amounts of excep-
tional financing, including suppliers credits and an increase in import
payment arrears. Despite this, the volume of imports has had to be severely
curtailed, and in 1980, was still no higher than in the mid-1970s.
12.       Given the recent negative developments on coffee prices and oil
supplies, as well as the limited scope for further exceptional financing,
there is little prospect for any immediate improvement in the balance of
payments, and present indications are that the situation will continue to
deteriorate during 1981. This continuing balance of payments constraint is
inevitably having a debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports
reducing production and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in further
falls in exports and available foreign exchange. This vicious circle will
be difficult to break, unless there is a substantial injection of foreign
exchange and major changes in domestic policies designed to improve producer
incentives, parastatal operations, import allocations, the promotion of
non-traditional exports, and overall government planning and budgeting. The
Government has recently introduced a number of significant measures -- such as
higher producer prices for coffee, sisal and tobacco and the establishment of
a Special Agricultural Account at the Bank of Tanzania to ensure a substantial
proportion of foreign exchange for food and export crop production. This
Export Rehabilitation Program is to be supported by a recently approved credit
from IDA (See Report No. P-3009) and could stem and then reverse the decline
in Tanzania-s export earningsz
13.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will continue
to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially over the
next two to three years. To sustain an increase in per capita GDP will require
increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful review of import require-
ments, especially those for low-priority projects with long gestation periods
and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the prospects would be for generally
stagnant economic activity over the 1980s as a whole, with a substantial
decline in per capita incomes. To avoid this, there will need to be continued
emphasis on export performance and a concerted effort to improve the level of
capacity utilization and efficiency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be
done without jeopardizing vital food production.
14.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the current
account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope of this is clearly
limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial credit during
a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply cannot afford the
heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the bulk of the financing
requirement will have to be met by additional foreign assistance. Possible
sources for this include further drawings from the IMF (which could add US$100



-6-
million per annum), deferred payment arrangements and other concessional financ-
ing from oil-supplying countries, additional new commitments from traditional
bilateral and multilateral sources, and a continued movement towards non-
project assistance.
15.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher cost
commercial loans and suppliers credits, the country s overall debt service
ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the debt service burden
is expected to increase as past loans fall due for repayment and new borrowings,
including some on commercial terms, are required to meet the widening balance
of payments gap. Such borrowings, together with very poor export prospects,
could raise the debt service ratio to 15%-20% during the 1980s. In 1980, it
is estimated that the Bank held 14% of Tanzania's external debt outstanding and
disbursed (for the Bank Group, it was 28%) and received 25% of Tanzania's debt
service (27% for the Bank Group). This relatively high level of Bank exposure
reflects in part the impact of recent debt write-offs, totaling US$277 million
in 1978 and 1979. We are projecting the Bank Group's share in debt service to
fall over the coming decade owing to the reduced IBRD component in the lending
program and the continued need for Tanzania to borrow funds on less conces-
sional terms from other sources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
16.      Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 48 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$949.3 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the development
of the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community. IFC
investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero
Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial diffi-
culties and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest in the
Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in soap
manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Commmnity
organizations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       In support of Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank Group
lending operations have assisted a wide spectrum of activities. Nearly
every sector in which the Bank Group has operational capacity has received
some attention. While this broad involvement in Tanzania's development
efforts will be continued, future work is expected to concentrate on: (i)
agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv)
education and manpower development. As agriculture and related activities
constitute the largest single sector in the economy, it has received 30% of



- 7 -
the Bank Group's direct lending to Tanzania. The lending program in agricul-
ture has featured three main types of projects. A series of regional rural
development projects are focusing on production and the development of
regional infrastructure needed to remove production constraints. The Kigoma
Project (Credit No. 508-TA) was the first of these, and similar projects have
been approved for Tabora (Credit No. 703-TA) and Mwanza/Shinyanga (Credit No.
803-TA). Another group of projects is centered on specific crops (such as
maize, tea, tobacco and pyrethrum) and are the responsibility of the Ministry
of Agriculture or one of its parastatals. A third set of projects, such as
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project (Credit No. 987-TA) is designed to
improve general support services for the agricultural sector. However, in
view of growing evidence of persistent underfinancing of capital maintenance
and replacement in the sector, new Bank Group lending in agriculture is likely
to focus increasingly on the rehabilitation and fuller use of existing produc-
tion and processing capacity, rather than on expansion of such capacity.
18.       Alongside agriculture, there has been a major focus in Bank Group
work on transport and communications. Transportation difficulties are con-
tinuously cited as critical constraints to development in Tanzania. Indeed,
the Government's inability to ensure the timely availability of inputs or the
regular collection of crops has been a major bottleneck to increased produc-
tion in the agriculture sector. Furthermore, during the seventies, transport
investments were primarily concentrated around the Tanzania-Zambia Corridor
and since 1977, no systematic investment program has been prepared for the
subsectors which were overseen by EAC Corporations. The major objectives of
the proposed Bank Group activities are to develop a more balanced investment
program in transport and communications and to strengthen the ministries and
newly established national corporations responsible for railways, ports, and
telecommunications. In industry, future lending is expected to provide
further support to well developed financial intermediaries like the Tanzanian
Investment Bank (TIB) which are intending to consolidate their portfolio and
place stress on capacity utilization and export promotion. Shortages in
skilled manpower are also a worsening bottleneck to development. Bank Group
involvement in education has supported and is expected to continue support for
specialized training and the development of the secondary education sector to
assist the Government in meeting its manpower needs.
19.       Projects which have been recently approved or appraised reflect
the above outlined priorities. Those approved include a Pyrethrum Project
(Credit No. 1007-TA), a Foodgrain Storage and Milling Project (Credit No.
1015-TA), a Tea Processing Project (Credit No. 1037-TA), the Dar es Salaam
Port Engineering Project (Credit No. S-24-TA), a Seventh Education Project
(Credit No. 1056-TA), a Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit No.
1060-TA) and an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (Credit No. (1133-TA).
Projects which have been appraised include a rural development project for
Mara Region, a second line of credit to the Tanganyika Development Finance
Corporation (TDFL) and a small scale industries project.
20.       In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has on
several occasions provided non-project credits in support of the Government's



- 8 -
efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties. The first such
credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most recent in April
1981 (Credit No. 1133-TA).
21.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is to some extent the result of the
recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects mounting problems
in project implementation, particularly in agriculture and rural development.
The causes of these difficulties are varied. To a large extent they arise
from the scarcity of suitably trained and experienced manpower, which call for
stepped-up efforts in higher education and specialized training, as well as
for sustained high levels of technical assistance in future project design.
Other implementation problems reflect the difficulty of identifying and
disseminating agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder
farmers or result from administrative overextension in the undertaking of a
far-reaching development program. These problems have been compounded by
frequent and fundamental administrative changes, which--though potentially the
source of long-term benefits--have disrupted orderly execution of some projects
and made aspects of other project designs obsolete. The Uganda war had some
early impact on project implementation by diverting equipment and manpower
away from development purposes; however, by contributing to the current
economic crisis, the temporary logistical problems caused by the conflict have
been superseded by deeper and more lasting difficulties arising from a criti-
cal shortage of essential goods and services. During the last half of 1980,
the direct and indirect effects of prolonged under-financing of essential
import requirements became painfully obvious. Most industrial facilities were
working at less than half their installed capacity and the lack of maintenance
and operations funds (particularly for replacement equipment, spare parts, and
fuel) was compounding the already serious effects of deferred maintenance of
capital stock, especially in the agricultural sector. Until the general
economic situation improves, the outlook is for continued and sometimes
unforseen interruptions in project disbursements.
22.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increased atten-
tion has been given to measures designed to improve specific aspects of
project implementation. Courses on Bank Group procurement have been held in
Dar es Salaam for relevant Government officials. A special project implemen-
tation unit has been set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and eleven Agricul-
tural Development Services staff have been attached to Bank Group financed
projects in agriculture and rural development. The Government has assigned
responsibility for the monitoring of project performance to the Sectoral
Planning Department of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs. Since
February 1977 there has been a Government/Bank Group review of implementation
problems on a project-by-project basis. In October 1980, a major Country
Implementation Review was held in Arusha at which all Bank-financed agricul-
tural projects were examined, with a view to discussing sectoral issues in
addition to project-related matters. Consideration is being given to obtaining
technical assistance for the central economic authorities (such as Finance and
Planning) and for key operating Ministries (such as Agriculture) to improve



- 9 -
their project monitoring and implementation capacity. As a result of such
steps - and a necessary slowing of the growth rate of the country's overall
development program during the next three years - we expect some gradual
improvement in project implementation.
East African Community (EAC)
23.       Major developments affecting the East African Community were out-
lined in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312)
and more recent developments were reported in a statement to the Executive
Directors during their meeting of May 6, 1980. The three former Partner States
have employed Dr. Victor Umbricht as an independent mediator to recommend an
appropriate disposition of the assets and liabilities of the Community corpora-
tions and the General Fund Services. Dr. Umbricht has visited East Africa on
numerous occasions, has employed consultants to assist in the appraisal of
Community assets and liabilities, and has in March 1980 made formal recommenda-
tions on the allocation of these assets and liabilities. Meetings at minis-
terial level to discuss the Mediator's proposals were held in Arusha in May
1980, and in Kampala in February 1981, and a follow-up meeting in Nairobi is
scheduled for July 1981. Meanwhile, the Mediator-s report and recommendations
on the future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have been
accepted by the Partner States and the revised EADB Charter, along with the
Treaty to enact the new Charter, have been ratified by the three Governments.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
24.       Tanzania, with land area of about 945,000 km , has an uneven popula-
tion density. About 5% of the total population live in Dar es Salaam and
another 5% in the twenty other biggest urban centers. The rural population,
about 90% of the total population, is spread over the territory, with higher
densities near the Indian Ocean ports of Tanga and Mtwara, the Lake Victoria
area, and the highlands around Kilimanjaro and near Lake Nyasa in the south.
Poor road conditions and limited transport facilities slow down the impact of
administrative and social reforms, and adversely affect the marketing of
agricultural products and the timely delivery of inputs. In view of these
transportation difficulties, telecommunications services are increasingly
becoming the least cost means of communication for a growing proportion of the
population. The Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation-s (TPTC)
1980-84 development program for the telecommunications sector is designed to
continue the expansion of services to regions outside Dar es Salaam, and
increase access of isolated rural areas to telecommunications services by
expanding the capacity of the system, and upgrading the quality of local and
long distance telephone service.
Organization
25.       With the breakup of the East African Community (EAC), including the
East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (EAPTC), the Government



- 10 -
of Tanzania established TPTC in 1977 as an autonomous government-owned corpora-
tion under the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT). TPTC has to
handle the postal and the telecommunications services which are sufficiently
separated. TPTC has the absolute monopoly for handling the telecommunications
systems in Tanzania which means TPTC is responsible for the establishment,
expansion, operation, and maintenance of all local, national and international
telecommunications services. These services are adequately organized. By
agreement with TPTC, the military organizations, the Ministry of Home Affairs,
and the Aerodromes Department operate some telecommunications services for
their administrative needs. Private users can also operate point-to-point
telecommunications services after obtaining a license from TPTC. These
licenses are issued only when TPTC is not in a position to provide such
services adequately; they are renewed on an annual basis. Tariffs for tele-
communications services are fixed by MCT upon recommendation by TPTC's Board.
The country has no significant industry to manufacture telecommunications
material and equipment.
Access to and Usage of Service
26.       In Tanzania, the number of direct telephone exchange lines (DELs) in
service per 100 population, about 0.21, is among the lowest in the world. For
Africa as a whole, except for the Republic of South Africa, the corresponding
average figure is 0.4; for Asia, except for Japan and the People s Republic of
China, it is 0.9; for Latin America 3.2 and for North America 32.0. Existing
services are concentrated in Dar es Salaam (44% of the DELs) with 5% of the
population, that is, 1.8 connections per 100 inhabitants. Another 42% of the
DELs are installed in the other 24 regional capitals, making the average
telephone density there about 1.4 connections per 100 inhabitants. This
leaves 14% of the DELs for the rural areas with 90% of the population;
an average density of only 0.04 connections per 100 inhabitants in the country-
side, including district and other development centers. While all the
regional capitals (20 on the mainland and 5 on Zanzibar and Pemba) have some
telephone service, 60 of the 100 districts are not yet satisfactorily connected
to the telecommunications network. About 60 other towns have manual telephone
service of varying quality and, in addition, about 200 remote centers are
equipped with radio call service, 1/ but most towns and villages have no
access to telecommunications facilities.
27.       No precise figures are available in regard to categories of sub-
scribers or users. However, provision is made under the project to support
TPTC-s efforts to find out more about users and usages of its telecommunications
services (see para. 61). Up to now, it is known that 60% of telecommunications
revenues comes from government users, including the parastatal entities. This
category dominates the number of subscribers in the regions outside Dar es
Salaam, whereas private business and residential subscribers account for
nearly one-half of the total number in that city. It is also known that due
to the prevailing shortage of lines, a telephone is used mostly for business
transactions, even when it is installed in a residence. This is reflected in
1/   a shortwave radio facility for emergency and specialized purposes,
but unsuitable for public communications.



- 11 -
the pronounced peaks in the traffic load of both local and long distance
facilities during working hours.
28.       As of December 31, 1979, Tanzania had about 38,300 DELs to which
about 88,700 telephones were connected. The current ratio of telephones to
connections, about 2.3 for the whole country, is abnormally high, particularly
in Dar es Salaam. This situation is detrimental to good service in a network
of the Tanzanian type. The high degree of utilization of the available
exchange equipment and facilities, has left TPTC with little flexibility for
new connections and has hampered growth during the last two to three years.
However, for the few lines that can still be connected, TPTC has an allocation
system which gives priority to essential services; this system is being
implemented satisfactorily. With some adjustments in the present tariff
structure (para. 55), it is expected that cost considerations would, to
some extent, help allocate telecommunications services to priority uses.
29.       There are 426 telex subscribers in the country, of which 110 are
outside Dar es Salaam and connected to either of the two telex exchanges in
Arusha and in Dar es Salaam. Only 15 of the regional capitals have telex
connections, and in these regions TPTC uses teleprinters connected to the
telex network for telegram transmission.
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
30.       Heavier demand for services than the network was designed to handle
has led to poor service, and all systems are heavily congested during daytime
(peak period). Due to lack of spare parts and inadequate maintenance, the
transmission lines are frequently out of order, reducing the number of avail-
able channels and further aggravating the congestion problem. Also, the high
number of telephones (an average of 2.3, see para. 28) on each connection
necessitates numerous attempts to complete calls during peak business hours;
according to sample studies, only 5.5% of call attempts are successful. More
than 80% of the telephones are connected to local automatic exchanges, the
rest to manual exchanges. About 95% of local and inter-urban traffic is
automatic. The long waiting time for manually connected long distance calls
makes the service of little value and discourages clients. Despite the fact
that underground cables are old and cause faults, especially by leakage during
the rainy season, the quality of the service from the local cable networks is
relatively satisfactory. TPTCGs performance in rectifying faults and reducing
telephone failures is reasonable.
31.       Access to international services (telephone and telex) is operator-
handled and channelled through an earth satellite station operating since
September 1979, and through very high frequency (VHF) and ultra high frequency
(UHF) radio circuits, or openwire systems to neighboring Uganda and Kenya.
The quality of service through the earth satellite portion of the system is
fully satisfactory.
Demand for Service
32.       As of December 31, 1979, the official waiting list contained 18,000
registrations, most of them for more than two years, and there is a latent



- 12 -
demand of at least the same size. It is difficult to forecast accurately
the future demand for services since the official waiting list does not
necessarily reflect the demand because of frustration and discouragement by
the long waiting time. Furthermore, after the villagization program, there
are now over 8,000 villages containing more than three-quarters of Tanzania's
rural population almost all without access to any telecommunications services.
Satisfying this demand is a task which has to be undertaken in addition to the
more urgent one of meeting the unsatisfied requirements in regional and
district centers and urban areas.
33.       TPTC's investment program (1980-84) would make about 60,000 addi-
tional telephone connections available; however, it is projected that by 1984
TPTC would still have an unsatisfied demand of about 12,000 (66% of the 1979
level). It is also projected that this situation will continue for the next
few years as TPTC does not have the traffic handling and investment implemen-
tation capacity to meet the demand.
34.       During 1979, the number of telex subscribers increased by 22%
to 426, while the waiting list was extended by 76 to 314. The reasons for
the relatively large increase (32%) in the waiting list is the shortage of
exchange lines and teleprinters. It is projected that once the present
waiting list has been eliminated through new installations under TPTC's
investment program, the unsatisfied demand for new telex subscriptions would
stabilize at around 150 a year.
Sector Goals and Constraints
35.       The objectives established by the Government of Tanzania for the
telecommunications sector are:
(a) to improve substantially the functional efficiency
of the present installations;
(b) to improve communications with the rural areas and estab-
lish an infrastructure enabling such improvement; and
(c) to expand and improve Tanzania's international telecom-
munications.
These telecommunications development objectives are consistent with those of
the national development plans which give priority to rural development and
equitable regional distribution of the development efforts. Rapid two-way
communication is seen as an important means of achieving this goal.
36.       TPTCGs autonomy, responsibility, and organization are adequate for
the operation and expansion of the Tanzanian telecommunications services.
Its present management is well qualified, and experienced staff is available
at all levels in the organization. However, the number of trained and expe-
rienced staff is not adequate for increased efficiency in the utilization and
maintenance of the existing installations and in expansion work. Realizing
this short-coming, TPTC established a strong training department. Training
facilities, however, are extremely inadequate.



- 13 -
37.       TPTC is expected to finance the local cost of its expansion program
from its internally generated funds without financial support from the Govern-
ment or any significant local borrowing. However, the lack of secured long-term
foreign exchange financing has up to now been a major constraint which has
impeded progress in the telecommunications sector. It caused slow and somewhat
erratic expansions, and resulted in an inability to implement longer term
planning, and in a failure to sustain an adequate maintenance program. The
proposed credit would help to alleviate this bottleneck at least partially.
TPTC's Investment Program Objectives
38.       After considering the present shortcomings in its services and
sector objectives, TPTC established targets for its 1980-84 investment
program. These targets, which have been endorsed by the Government, are:
(a) to install manually operated facilities in unserviced
district centers and in other towns of major rural
development importance;
(b) to provide satisfactory telecommunication channels to all
neighboring countries and to install manually operated
telephone facilities in all border towns;
(c) to provide subscriber long distance dialing between
all regional capitals;
(d)  to increase the extension, reliability, and capacity
of the long distance network to ensure acceptable
levels of call completion;
(e) to increase the reliability and capacity of the local
switching and cable networks at various cities and towns, to
decrease the present number of outages, and to reduce the
unsatisfied demand for connections registered on the waiting
lists (including the additions up to the end of 1984) to
two-thirds of the present level;
(f) to install at least one public call box at all places
with a telephone switchboard installation; and
(g) to provide teleprinter installations at all district
centers and at some other towns with major rural develop-
ment importance for rapid and reliable transmission of
telegrams, and for public access to the telex network.
These targets appear to be well conceived, with a view to developing a
technically and economically balanced telecommunications network which can
support the country's economic and social development.
39.       The main components of the investment program are:
(a)  to increase the country s total telephone switching
capacity by about 54,000 automatic and 7,000 manual
lines and the local cable networks by about 75,000
lines;



- 14 -
(b) to install about 30,000 new DELs, 700 private branch
exchanges, and 60,000 telephones;
(c) to construct about 70 VHF, UHF, or microwave radio links
for reliable long distance circuits, and to increase the
capacity of existing links by adding equipment for channel-
ing and switching;
(d) to increase the capacity of the telex central office in
Dar es Salaam by 900 lines and adding about 1,400 tele-
printers and telegraph transmission equipment as needed;
(e) to improve the reliability of power supply facilities
for telecommunications installations; and
(f) to complete the construction of TPTC's new training center.
The cost of completing this investment program is estimated at US$204 million
of which US$133 million in foreign exchange. This investment program has been
reviewed in the context of Tanzania's prevailing foreign exchange crisis.
First, the program is a long-term one, and is subject to annual reviews to
adapt it to the prevailing economic situation, including the availability of
foreign exchange. TPTC is aware that its investments program is likely to be
stretched over a longer period of time than originally anticipated. However,
there would be no repercussions of such a longer investment period on the
investments financed through this credit as outlined below (para. 65).
Second, TPTC is actively trying to secure its foreign exchange requirements
with Government assistance from bilateral donors and through suppliers'
credits. Additional recurrent foreign exchange requirements generated by the
new investments are expected to be negligible.
Bank Group Role and Previous Lending in the Sector
40.       Prior to 1977, the telecommunications services in the EAC were
managed by EAPTC (para. 25). The Bank Group has been associated with these
services since February 1967, when it approved a US$13.0 million loan (No.
483-EA) to EAPTC to help finance a project designed to expand local and long
distance facilities. The project was satisfactorily completed in early 1974.
A second loan (No. 675-EA) for US$10.4 million was approved in 1970 to finance
a project to further extend the telecommunications services. This project was
satisfactorily completed in June 1975. The combined Project Performance Audit
Report on these two projects (No. 893 dated October 21, 1975), while generally
positive in its view of the achievements of EAPTC under these projects, points
to (i) long delays in project implementation caused by inadequate planning and
project management; (ii) problems in procurement; and (iii) failure to meet
the demand for service. A third loan (No. 914-EA) was approved in May 1973
for US$32.5 million; due to problems in the EAC leading to its breakup, the
works to be undertaken under this project have been delayed. The Tanzania
part of the project is now expected to be completed in 1981, about five
years behind schedule.



- 15 -
41.       The Bank Group first became involved with the telecommunications
sector in Tanzania through a sector mission in January 1979, followed by a
project identification mission in September 1979. These missions focused
on institutional development and staff training, provision of independent
technical and economic advice, promotion of an improved tariff structure,
and provision of a sound long-term foreign exchange base on which realistic
and cost effective plans could be prepared and implemented. While EAPTC's
management of the three EAC projects was not completely satisfactory, it is
expected that TPTC would after further training of some of its staff have the
ability to implement the project satisfactorily. TPTC now has significant
experience in planning, engineering, and in construction of telecommunications
installations, gained during execution of the Tanzanian part of earlier
projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was prepared by TPTC, and appraised in April/May 1980.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Tanzania Telecommunications Project"
(Report No. 3133-TA) dated April 2, 1981, is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in March
1981; the Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. Kazaura, Principal Secretary in
the Ministry of Finance. A Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning of
this report. Annex III contains supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The project has been designed to support TPTC's current investment
program (1980-84) which is considered to be technically and economically
balanced. The project would comprise works to be undertaken during 1981,
1982 and the first half of 1983. In addition to providing physical facilities,
the project would help TPTC to improve its services to generate significant
amounts of local funds. It would have a number of broad objectives. It aims
at strengthening TPTC as an institution, increasing its capacity for training
of staff, expanding services in rural areas, and spreading the network to
presently unserved or insufficiently served areas, both urban and rural.
Specifically, it would include:
(a) construction of about 550 km of overhead line routes
and of 12 VHF or UHF links, as well as installation of
about 850 channels of rural carrier equipment and power
supply equipment for telecommunications facilities in
approximately 90, mostly rural, centers. (These facilities
will be used to connect district centers and other rural
towns, as well as border towns, to the telecommunications
networks, and to ensure reliable services);
(b) construction of four microwave links and installation of
about 600 channels of multiplex equipment in new and
existing broadband transmission systems. (This equipment
is essential to the development of the principal long
distance network);



- 16 -
(c) expansion of the local cable network at about 90 urban and
rural centers, pressurization of junction cables in Dar es
Salaam, and provision of dropwire for about 23,000 new DELs.
(The local cable and the dropwire correspond to outside
network plant and subscriber installations. The necessary
switching equipment and telephone instruments are partly
available or under installation; the supply of the remainder
is being secured under bilateral financing);
(d) provision of about 700 teleprinters required during the first
two years of the project for the connection of telex sub-
scribers (about two-thirds), leased circuit terminals, and
installations in district and major rural centers to increase
public access to the telex networks, and to facilitate
transmission of telegrams;
(e) provision of cement and other construction materials. (The
local production of these materials does not adequately satisfy
the needs of the country; the balance has to be imported.
The quantities included under the project are intended to
meet the requirements for construction of antenna tower
foundations, cable ducts, and operational buildings);
(f) provision of spare parts for existing power supply and telecom-
munications installations, for air-conditioning installations
in equipment rooms, and for vehicles used in the installation
of project items and in the operation of telecommunications
facilities. (The general shortage of foreign exchange has
caused extreme difficulties for TPTC's ongoing activities.
Thus, about one-third of TPTC's vehicle fleet is not used,
waiting for spare parts. About 30% of the long distance
network is out of use, due to lack of spare parts. Some
equipment installed in the coastal areas will have its life
reduced by corrosion, because the air-conditioning does not
work for lack of spare parts);
(g) provision of an air-conditioning plant and of training equip-
ment. (These items are critical in the completion of the
new training center now being built near Dar es Salaam);
(h) provision of 40 vehicles. (These vehicles are specialized
or four-wheel-drive vehicles required for handling cable drums
and other heavy or bulky items, and for other installation
and maintenance work. In computing the number of vehicles
needed, it has been assumed that practically all of the
repairable vehicles would be brought back into service after
procurement of required spare parts); and
(i) equipment for a digital telephone exchange in Zanzibar as a
pilot project. (Because of its geographical situation,
Zanzibar would be an ideal place to study the best arrange-
ments for utilizing this kind of equipment in the Tanzanian
environment as such equipment has to be installed in a few
years on the mainland on a large scale); and



- 17 -
(j) provision for training fellowships, overseas study
tours, and studies. (The training is intended
to specialize staff in outside plant engineering,
construction and operation, stores and supplies
management, etc. and would complement the locally
available training. TPTC would study the appropriate-
ness of its tariff structure and the impact of its
telecommunications services on national economic
development).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
44.       The total cost of the project is estimated at TSh 390.0 million
(US$47.0 million equivalent). TPTC is exempted from taxes and customs duties
on imported goods. The foreign exchange component would amount to US$27.0
million equivalent or 57% of total cost. Details of project costs are in-
cluded in the Credit and Project Summary. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 22.1
million (US$27.0 million) equivalent would cover the entire foreign exchange
cost of the project; the local cost (US$20.0 million) would be provided by
TPTC.
45.       The proceeds of the credit would be onlent by the Government to TPTC
for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an annual interest
rate of 10% (which is the current borrowing rate for parastatal organizations)
and TPTC would bear the foreign exchange risk (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and TPTC, acceptable to the Association, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       All equipment to be financed under the project would be bulked as
far as possible and would be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines, except for a few
items costing a total of about US$1.5 million equivalent. In the evaluation
of bids, qualified domestic manufacturers would be accorded a preference of
15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Items excluded from
ICB and proposed for negotiated purchase on the grounds of compatibility are
spare parts for existing vehicles, and existing telecommunications and auxili-
ary equipment with an aggregate cost not exceeding US$0.75 million equivalent.
The procurement procedures to be followed and the prices paid for the nego-
tiated purchases would be subject to the approval of the Association and would
have to be reasonable in terms of ICB prices offered on similar items.
Contracts for vehicles, construction materials, sundry maintenance equipment
and other spare parts costing less than US$150,000 each, but not exceeding an
aggregate of US$0.75 million equivalent, would be awarded following TPTC-s
procurement procedures which are satisfactory. Except for construction
materials, none of the material and equipment to be financed under the project
are manufactured in Tanzania, and are expected to be imported.



- 18 -
47.       Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of 100% of
foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for all goods and services
to be financed under the project. Where necessary, disbursements would
include the foreign cost of installation of equipment. All disbursements
would be fully documented.
Project Implementation
48.       TPTC would be responsible for project implementation.  TPTC staff
would (i) prepare engineering designs for all equipment, prepare bidding docu-
ments, evaluate bids, and prepare contract documents; (ii) lay and commission
all local and junction cables, and install subscriber facilities both in rural
and urban areas; and (iii) install the microwave, multiplex, and radio equip-
ment. TPTC's management and staff are sufficiently experienced and capable of
managing the above work satisfactorily. TPTC's staff is preparing bid docu-
ments and technical specifications for nearly all the goods to be financed
under the project. Implementation and operations within TPTC have been
hampered by lack of spare parts for vehicles; TPTC would monitor closely the
use of spare parts and tools provided under the project, the maintenance of
the vehicles and the deployment of equipment to avoid bottlenecks in its
operations. The design of the telecommunications network is based on appro-
priate technology to minimize capital and recurrent costs, and appropriate
intervals for the extension of the various plants have been adopted. Subscriber
dialing instead of operator-handled calls for traffic between regional capitals
is desirable, though somewhat less labor intensive and slightly more expensive,
to improve reliability and efficiency on these routes.
Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC), the Beneficiary
49.       Established in 1978 by the Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation Act, TPTC, the project implementing agency, is an autonomous
government-owned public corporation responsible for all domestic and interna-
tional postal and telecommunications services in Tanzania. The Ministry of
Communication and Transport (MCT) has direct responsibility for overseeing the
activities of TPTC, which is headed by a Board of Directors representing
concerned Government ministries and regional authorities, together with a
member representing the employees' union. TPTC's day-to-day operations are
controlled by a Director General; a Director of Research and Corporate Planning,
and two Assistant Director Generals in charge of Operations and Development,
and of Finance and Administration respectively report to him.  Postal and
telecommunications activities share the common services of research and
corporate planning, finance and administration, and buildings. From an
accounting point of view, the operations of postal and telecommunications
services are separately identifiable.
50.       TPTC-s telecommunications staff consists of 155 engineers, 911
technicians and specialist workers, 962 operators, 724 laborers, and 402
administrative staff, a total of 3,154. These numbers are high when compared
with the number of telephones in service (77 per 1,000 DELs). Despite the
introduction of more sophisticated systems during the project period, TPTC
does not anticipate expanding its staff at the same rate as in the past (about



- 19 -
7% p.a.) and expects that by end 1984, staff density would be reduced to about
58 per 1,000 DELs, which is close to the average of similar telecommunications
systems.
Training
51.       TPTC-s needs to expand and improve the training of its staff, both
in order to improve operation and maintenance of existing installations, and
to cater for expansion. Currently, TPTC has two training campuses in Dar es
Salaam. In addition, for managerial and administrative training, TPTC has
access to a multinational training institution in Arusha. The available
facilities are, however, inadequate, and a new training center is being built
on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam. Completion is expected in early 1983, at
which time the activities at all the campuses would be consolidated. The
major part of the training would be done at the new center, although some
would still be undertaken at the present centers and some trainees would be
sent to the management institute in Arusha.
52.       TPTC's instruction and training programs cover the significant
aspects of its business (engineering, maintenance, finance, civil works,
etc.). There is both in-house and on-site training, with instructors having
formerly worked on site. Maintenance personnel are given a two week refresher
course every year. Middle- and senior-level technicians are sent overseas for
short- and medium-term courses. SIDA, the Swedish aid agency, has provided a
number of instructors for the training centers and this aid is expected to
continue. Several small items of equipment as well as air conditioning for
the machinery rooms are required; the project would provide for these items to
ensure optimum benefits. TPTC's present training plans foresee a successive
increase from 6,000 student-weeks in 1979 -o 14,000 student-weeks in 1984,
which corresponds to the needs of the organization.
TPTC-s Finances
53.       Historically TPTC's financial performance has been good, both in
terms of financial returns, and internal cash generation. TPTC's financial
position is sound and its capital structure is adequate. To ensure the
financial viability of its operations, TPTC is required to achieve a rate of
return after taxes of not less than 12% on revalued net fixed telecommunica-
tions assets in operation. For purposes of the rate of return calculations,
TPTC would propose to the Association by September 30, 1981, a method for the
revaluation of fixed assets and would revalue annually its fixed assets on the
basis of the agreed method, starting with the financial statements for the
year ending December 31, 1981 (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
TPTC-s net internal cash generation finances about 54% of its development
program. TPTC's projected financial performance is satisfactory and the
average operating ratio is 52%, which is acceptable.
Settlement of EAPTC's Assets and Liabilities
54.       The final division of EAPTC's 1/ assets and liabilities among the
former partner states, after the breakup of the EAC in 1977, is still pending
1/   and its subsidiary, the East African External Telecommunications
Company Limited.



- 20 -
and settlement may take some time (para. 23). The Government has authorized
TPTC to operate EAPTC s assets in Tanzania. However, these assets cannot be
declared the property of TPTC until final agreement is reached. This situa-
tion implies that historic and projected financial statements presented for
TPTC are provisional and may be adjusted to take account of a future final
settlement of EAPTC-s assets and liabilities. Pending the final settlement,
TPTC's audit reports would be qualified by the Auditors to reflect the esti-
mated share of TPTC in these assets and liabilities, and revaluation of
assets would be based on the provisional accounts and financial statements
(Section 4.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement). According to TPTC's esti-
mated balance sheet as at December 31, 1979, the book value of EAPTC-s Tanzania
based assets represents less than 10% of TPTC's current net fixed assets.
Tariffs
55.       The allocational aspects of tariff policy have not in the past been
a prime factor in determining the level or structure of tariffs; the last tariff
increase was in February 1975 under EAPTC management. Currently, installation,
rental, and call charges are uniform across the country. In the higher demand
areas, telephone installation and rental charges seem to be relatively
low. Inter-urban tariffs, on the other hand, seem to be relatively high.
In order to promote overall national equity and to balance the tariff level
and structure, TPTC would review its tariff structure by December 31, 1982,
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and would by June 30,
1983, submit for the Association-s review and comments, the results of the
study along with TPTC's recommendations (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). The tariff structure study would be carried out by TPTC's Tariff
Review Committee which includes the Director General, the two Assistants
Director Generals and the Directors of Finance and Accounts, and Research and
Corporate Planning.
Billing and Collection
56.       The billing system is computerized and its cycle is on a monthly
basis, which is adequate for the current level of activities--rentals are
billed in advance and call charges after they have been incurred. At present,
bills are issued about three-and-a-half months after the period to which they
relate. Two months of this delay occurs prior to receipt of billing informa-
tion by the centralized computer center, located in Dar es Salaam. Subscribers
can pay in any post office and are expected to do so within two weeks of
receiving their bill. If a subscriber has not paid within one month after
receipt of the bill, the telephone is disconnected. Accounts receivable
at December 31, 1979, are estimated to be TShs 170 million, equivalent to over
50% of the telecommunications revenues, which is rather high. In order to
clarify and improve the accounts receivable situation, every six months, TPTC
would prepare and forward to the Association a receivables aging analysis by
type of user and would institute procedures to ensure that the level of out-
standing receivables compared with gross telecommunications revenues would not
exceed 35% by December 31, 1982, and 25% by December 31, 1984. To assist in
this improvement, TPTC would investigate and suggest methods of improving the



- 21 -
three-and-one-half months delay in bill issuance and forward such report and
analysis along with its recommendations to the Association by December 31,
1981 (Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement). TPTC's Board has recently
instructed its management to take strong actions against all defaulters,
including Government parastatals, and improvements in the billing system, has
reduced the delay from 14 to 10 weeks.
Accounts, Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting
57.       TPTC enjoys a considerable degree of financial autonomy, prepares
its accounts on a commercial basis, and is required by the TPTC Act to present
its audited accounts within six months of the end of the financial year.
TPTC prepares annual budget forecasts which are presented to the Board of
Directors for its review, comment, and approval, in September of each year
(three months in advance of the concerned fiscal year). Capital development
budgets are forwarded to the Government for final approval and as the Govern-
ment controls the foreign exchange allocation to TPTC, it determines the size
and scope of expansion.
58.       TPTC has an internal audit section which was recently expanded.
This section operates with an audit program which covers both routine account-
ing and management control procedures. An internal audit report is issued to
management every two months. The Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC) is TPTC's
external auditor. The audit of the 1978 accounts has been recently completed;
delays have occurred in the presentation of draft accounts and in auditing
work. However, TPTC has agreed to furnish to the Association the audited
financial statements and the audit reports as soon as available, but not later
than eight months after the end of the fiscal year in 1981, seven months in
1982, and six months in subsequent years (Section 4.02(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). These arrangements are satisfactory to the Association. Also, in
order to improve management control TPTC is working on a management information
system expected to be completed during the next 12 months.
59.       TPTC would maintain separate accounts of expenditures under the
project and would closely monitor project implementation. Detailed progress
reports would be submitted by TPTC to the Association on a quarterly basis.
Performance indicators have also been established to assist TPTC in monitoring
the project's progress. Within six months of the completion of the project,
TPTC would prepare and submit to the Association a project completion report,
analyzing the implementation of the project and achievement of its objectives
(Section 2.05(d) of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
60.       The Government s development efforts, which are focused on rural
areas where 90% of the population lives, have an indispensable need for a
countrywide network of reasonably well functioning telecommunications services.
These efforts are being seriously hampered by the inadequacy or unavailability



- 22 -
of communications channels. Lack of access to rapid and reliable communica-
tions coupled with a poor transportation system have created significant
problems or aggravated existing problems in the coordination and management of
all sectors. In the transport sector, trucks often return to base empty even
though there are cargoes waiting to be picked up, breakdowns are not quickly
reported, and there are delays in analyzing mechanical problems and sending
repair teams. Agricultural development efforts also suffer; supplies are not
ordered or provided on a timely basis, and information on prices, transport,
and administrative problems is either untimely or unavailable resulting in a
reduction in the quantities of agricultural products exported and reducing the
quantities and the timeliness of locally produced food available in the
domestic markets. This in turn adversely affects the producers, and the
country-s economy at large. Government officials, responsible for project
implementation, who require daily information from parastatals and other
ministries, spend hours travelling due to inadequate telecommunications
links. Other government officials and private businessmen must make costly,
time- and fuel-consuming trips on a monthly or even weekly basis because of
the absence of adequate long distance telephone connections. Instead of a
situation where adequate telecommunications services contain the pressure on
the strained transport system, the present inadequacy of these services
exaggerates the burden on the system.
61.       In order to obtain a basis for appreciation of the impact of the
availability and quality of telecommunication services on the economic develop-
ment in Tanzania, it has been agreed that a study be undertaken to this effect
(Section 4.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement). The cost of consultancy
services for the study would be covered within the framework of the project;
consultants would be employed whose qualifications and experience would be
satisfactory to the Association. The study would be completed by December 31,
1982.
62.       TPTC's 1980-84 investment program has been designed to improve the
reliability and efficiency of the present telephone installations to more
acceptable levels. It would also increase the capacity of the local and long
distance networks, so as to enable automatic and manual calls to be estab-
lished without excessive delays. It would expand the network to about 42
presently unserved towns, enabling access both from public telephone booths
and subscriber installations. Although the program would not eliminate
unsatisfied demand for subscriber connections or immediate access, it would
significantly improve the present situation, thus alleviating some of the
difficulties indicated above.
63.       The completion of the program would contribute to greater efficiency
in business, transportation, and Government administration as well as rural
development, health, and educational programs. By the end of 1984, the
telephone density would have increased from 1.80 DELs per 100 inhabitants to
2.00 (an 11% increase) in urban areas and from 0.04 to 0.09 (a 125% increase)
in rural areas; the long distance network would have been improved, and
additional public call boxes installed.



- 23 -
64.       The project would have a favorable financial impact on Government
development programs in other sectors and would generate significant public
savings. Over the project period, it is estimated that TPTC would pay
corporate tax of US$84 million equivalent in local currency. The project's
financial rate of return is estimated at 17%, but this significantly under-
states the economic benefits from the investment program because the benefit
stream used in the calculations does not include a major portion of the
indirect and external benefits to be gained by the non-users of the service.
It also does not include much of the consumer surplus which telephone users
receive.  By estimating the consumer surplus on the basis of the prices now
paid by existing subscribers and the registered applicants are willing to pay,
the economic rate of return would be 24%.
65.       The project presents limited risks.  The main risk is that physical
implementation of some components might be delayed.  However, as the project
comprises a relatively large number of independent works, a delay in the
implementation of a few works would not generally prevent the use of other
newly created assets.  Furthermore, where delays do occur, the costs and
benefits would be delayed in roughly the same proportion; hence, the impact
on the rate of return would not be significant. In addition, the project
includes features designed to reduce, if not eliminate, causes of delay. The
project would not have any adverse effect on the environment as telecommunica-
tions presents a substitute for physical movement thereby reducing pollution,
and has potential to conserve energy.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC), and
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
67.       Specific conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this Report. In addition, execution of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment between the Government and TPTC is a condition precedent to the effective-
ness of the Development Credit Agreement (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1981



-25-
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                                   Page  1  of  6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATOPS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                       RFFFNF?CF GROCPE tWFIC"TFI AVFPA' FC
ASPNl_ sIi.A   IKCtA S- . A SI.:                                                    _ HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
*            9~~~~~~'4 5. 1
'.6l r   hAL     49. ,-                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDlF INrOSF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOI'TH OF SAPAPA  AFRICA S97TI' OF SAHAPA
NI  N C LAPIIA (US$J                   70.0       1 30.0     270.0                 260.0 n68 P.
*NLK(lT -SSUFi IfIN P'ER CAPITA
---'I:  S  7 fN,I'I! (CUAL iOlIVALENTI  41.0      62.0      65.0                   80.r                   6q9.4
.ViL.ATUON AND VITAL STATISTICS
MPIA1 A ION, MID-YEAP (MILLIoNS)     i C. 2       :3. 3      1 7. 4
SI PAN M. K.1ATION (PERCENT OF TOTALi 4.8          6.9       10. 8                 17. 3                   2F.9
''P'!.A- 0ld PkCJECTIONS
P"n'ATOI; IN YE'AR 2000 (M!LLIONS)                        32.0
nPIA  OEARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         92.0
!,Ak STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2145
PPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. 1.4.                        11.0        14.0       18.0                  27.4                    61.7
t'EA SQ. AN. AGRICULTURAL LAND     21.0         26.0       35.0                  82. 6                  126. f
POPUiATION ACE STRUCTLURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YTNS.                         42. 7        44.4       45.7                  44.9                    45.3
15-64 YRS.                          54. 3        52.5      51.2                  52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABCVE                    3.0          3.1        3. 1                  2.8                     2.8
FUPLLATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.2         2.7        3.4                   2.7                     2.7
'JRBA                                5.0         6.3        8.9                   6.8                     4.9
CRCDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0         47.0       48.0                  47.4                    46.8
CRL0D  DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.0         19.0       16.0                  19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODlUCTION RATE               ..          3. 2       3.2                   3. 2                    3. 2
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..       93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMER)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (19b9-71-1O0)           95.0        104.0      91.0                  91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                    85.0         91.0      86.0                  90. 2                    92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAlIS PER DAY)          44.0         49.0      47.0                   51.n                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0         21.0      20.0                   18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       32. 0       25.0       20.0                  27. 7                   21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0          47.0       51. 0                 45.3                    51. I
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                        155.0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                                ..         13.0       39.0                  23.2                    31.0
URBAN                                ''         61.0      88.0                   58.0                    66.P
RURAL                                '.          9.0       36.0                  16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       17.0                  28.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      88.0                   67.0
RURAL                                ''           ''       14.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          21020.0/d   24770.0   1B160.0                30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10440.0_/de  3830.0    3080.0                   5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             570.0/d         ..       520.0               1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         4.4/c
L'RBAN                               .           3. 2/c      ..                    .
RURAL                               4* 4./c                 5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSORS PER ROCM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCEN1
OF DUELLINGSJ
TOTAL                                ..           ..
LE,BAN                               ..           ..
RN9L                                 ..           ..        ..



-26-
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                             Paze   2  of  6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                        REFERENCE CROUPS JWEIGHTED
- hOST RECENT ISTIMATE)'
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTDMATE jb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  25.0         38.0      70.0                   57.7                     61.7
MALE                  33.0         46.0       79.0                  74.2                      69.2
FEIALE                18.0         30.0       60.0                  54.1                      51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          3.0       3.0                   10.0                     20.6
MALE                   2.0          4. 0       5.0                  13. 7                     29.2
FEMALE                 1.0          2.0        2.0                   7. 1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  23.0             ..         ..                   6.8                       7. 0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         46.0      50.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                           20.0         19.0      20.0                   25.2                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9. 5/d      28. lIc    66.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          2.5       2.6                    3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         11.0      19.0                   31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0. 3       0. 3                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
2lNTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    3.0          5.0       4.5                    4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5             ..       0. 2                    ..                       0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4734.5       5841.7    7342.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    37. 1        36.6      34.0                   33.5                     38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.3         86.0      83.0                   80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.8          5.0       6.0                    8. 1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7         43.5      42.2                   42.2                     38.8
tiALE                                 56.9         55.7      54.3                   55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                                32.8         31.5      30.3                   29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1. 1       1.2                   1. 2                      1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         33.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           63.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          2.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          7.8
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      147.0                  138.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      109.0                   86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      125.0                  107.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       74.0                   65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       10.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       60.0                   66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are populatiose-wighted arithmetic mesns.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yeor between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1967;  L  1962; /e Registered, not all practicing in the country.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, population and related escimates have also been
revised; all other dat are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-27-                                                  Annex I
PAqop 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL iNhICATOth
gos:Although the data Are draw  fro    --ae  gerra11y  jdgsd  h.- mostsoh-it-ti-e and reliable, it  hoold also be noted that they may non be Inter-
natlonsil  comparAbleh -eu  of  he  ac  of soandrdie    dsfinitione And  tn....pt. used hy different. -oo-ite  in colleting the data.  Tb. data ore,noe
theles. usefolt  d         IsrtAorer   f  agttode, iedoate trends, and ohar-Tterte  certain  -aJor differece  betwen.o..                 res
The  aferacegrous ar  (I the   -s  country  g-o  Of tbe soblent country end (2)           a.coutry group anth  -teohet higher sorse  rm   than the nountry group
ofThe sub.is.ot.. t4"ty)op   for "Capital forploa Oil Exporters" pinup wher  'Middle lanom   North AfTic  at d Middle fEet'I  the.oo.. bsoaoea Of eeas
enci-colaralafftitia).  [  the referent. group data the erng.aepooatn                    ighted stithet it  en  for each tndion-  ond shoe only  hen at
la-s  half Of tbs tartttias tn a arnup baa dons for tAttd Sot                 inoe the  -o-e-ge Of ooo..t. sswa  tho indu.tor  dpsade nn the availability Of
data an   ent unIfor, oauttin .atthbeecie   in relatingsnraeOf on  tndioatr no another.  Then.  .. a .age  asonly ue.fui in coparing the vaiae
ofoeindinnt  oatime          _n hn. orutry andrfereno  groups.
LANM AMI  inhOuwad sq.k..)                                                                     epnrcltinn own Phrs1ictnn-r.Pulatin  dlnided  bY  t-b-e at practicing  pny-
Tote.1 - Total suf1-e csrao   ad area and inled rettetiane qoalifisd  rom  A medical school at uni-srity 1sna.
Aziunrl- Es timate Of  a      lua   r.- oamd t..pr...ily or permaeetly               Pocle"ioa Oar Nursing Parson - Populatine dinided by orberiof pr-aintag
for crps. Pannurs, morkt an  kitchen gardst  or to lis fallow; 1977 data,                   male And femal  gradt.ieur ,precti-I nurses  and ..setett   -a.s.s
Poplaton  et  oenta  Ne  -  ona, uban  ed rursl - IPrplaien  (tentl,
GQIP PER CAPITA (US;) - GN? p-r ospina sstimats  s tureatakat pritee. ca1-                       ura,sd raldividd by thet_                    t repnIve  tsber of bh-pinsa bee
oate-d by  a-  tovrin    ehod as World Saak Atlas (1977-79 bSe.);  1960,                       ewilble In  olIte and private  general and spertliad hospi te1 emdr-
1970, and  t79?Ndaa.                                                                           habil tetln   Hetne. nopitale are esnahliefssts parmnatly staffed
ENEO! CONSUIMPTION PER CAPITA - A--Ia coauption Of tr is               -eegy (coal               by  tlatoepyiin                  eaieat    rvdn   rnial                     tda
narsreartinnoda    Mra  boepins1e, howve, inoloda health and eedtal
sad 1tgite, pstrt1l,  natoral gs.  sad hydr- s.. n..ear sad geothera   lctcnesnrpemsnl   tafe    yapyine    htb       ednlassat
ttririty) in kilognas Of o-a  equivalen  per, -pita; 1960, 1970. anM 978'                      nus., idwife, etc)  hirh offer in-patient arndfmad p-aida 
limited rage Of aedlol fecilin'ien         o  sttsnn2 prnsaola                  pi-
PIPTI,ATIum dli ThAI, iTATIITICO                                         tale iold. Wfn  Prinoipal genra  and sPetateedi Itail, end  -,Ii
POPMATIOti AND VITAL STATIST CS                                          h..~~~~bopitals 1-ra  or rura  hepittal  end   edina1 and moasr.lty    nss
Total Porolatina. Mid-Tsar fmlln)- As Of Joly I; 1960, 1970, and 19I8                        Admission- pe    enital Bed-Total number Of admissions to  rdehr
dato.                                                                                        f mm  hoapitals dinld -d by the number Of bade.
irhan Porltina (prtent of total) -   tait  of urban. tootl population;
different dfin,itin  Of orhn ar-   may affent cprabtity Of date                         BSN
so    cotras   960. 1970, an  1978 dans.                                                  Amnsg  flea o         iehold(cnosethuhld- total. arhan, end tasl
Portlatla Prlaniln                                                                         A hn,snl cI       sr o:     atro  ofidiiulsft  ehana  Inigq tr
Populat-ion In van20ff - Cur...nn ppolatio  prnjettion  ar  .s.ed on 1960                     an htethslo man. Ahoreroildermy"rma   otb    MoTade  i
total population by age and se  sa  their motlity end fntility rae.                       the ho..tahod 'o s-      istclporpoase.
ProetinPt"Peefo  mtaiyrta    ofrs  of nireh lels 5-                                      Average wishe  o. paron  net room - cotel, otb.e, and rra1 - Average  a
--1e, and fale  Ifeopcanysailaing si 77.5 Years.  The pars-                               dwellings. reepe  niey       1leltge  exlude no-parmnen   t-ttunes and
enters for frtiity rtet alac hens threw  level  assum,ing decline it                        .  -nccpiod yarns.
fernilftyocc-rdtog no i-m  iava  -an  past faml   isnn(apnmnr.                          doeet    letiiy  rret Of drelliuasi - total, urban, sed morel -
Each coutry Is then ansige       oe. fthese nine combiaonof  ataiy                         Coonntiono  deliingsnJthnIctic ity in living qanttr  a  prnnt
and ferility   r~e .forprnjIntnn-Ph  i5A-.                                           f tonal, urban, and r-rn  dwellings rspectl-ly.
t1he birthrt   ie equn  to the deathyrats, and also  iheagnsrt                        EDr-  UCATION
seine cntant.  This is schieed only afta  fertility  -st-  denline no                   Adjueted Enrol1e-n  Rutlot
the  _epl_n et leve  Of unit nn raprcdoctinn rtet, what anti genraion                     Pri.eay schoi-  notel, ne and femal  - Grose  tonal,  aln and fem1l
of ea    rplaca   itself  -xatly.  The eItnaypplto    t    a                                  nolete   l  ages a-  the primary e1             a  pretags.  of reepectire
eatt=mted        th  basia Of the projennad  ceaneiniao  the ;pupolenion                     prnr   coieeppltcs   omlyicue   hildra aged 6-li
In the Year. 20ff, and the rare Of decline Of f-rtility rtet to  -prlan-                     yeats hot ad)cetsd fcr differen  lengths Of primary edo..anti; fan
Yers     ppnayrelatfen is nrnth     - The yea  tAen attioeary population              aic   om   oi aaebeotrabvhh  offie                            d e ItDO ag., .
eise baa bas  r-chd.                                                                      lecdar     Icol.ttl ml  n   eae-Copted as ehv;aeodr
.Popultion Denity                                                                               o.ductorqi a   latioyeaof nproned primary inaronmn
Pot e. he. - Mid-year popolation pot  qunre kilomter (111  hertarna) IOf                       pvde gnra,cchns.ortcerriiginroinsf o   oi
yeten  km  snicltra1lad - Computed a-  bnvn for agriculturl landeld
only.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~'.cca..Ic...  ..cle. c)crcnc  aecnd .y.. poainoa  institotio.a
PopoltionMe tracnrn (erret) -Children  (0-14 ynse .   wno-age  Ill             -       includ   lechnoulc,  odu-tria1, or oher progra     which operate iad.pe-
64 a A),ad retired (65 years end oe)e  poonae   f sd-ynar ppy-                           dnl   ra   eanenao.eodr   ontnne
,ai.P      90  17,ad1ffdn.Prl-ece   aio   _nnto. and ontondery - Totcl stdt  enrolled  he,
Poruanie Ioret Sae mcan) - nonel - comua  groth rstee Of total aid-                        primary endtiodrbrI  divided by numhnr  of teachr. in the
year populati     for 19-50-60. 1960-70, and 1970-7g                                           correponding  l-nl..
PooainIet.h Out. ipanen    - orba   - An 1a growh rtne. Of orhan popu-                   Adult  cecyrtIrce)- Ltlneroceadlta  fable tn  -sd sed rite)
lentne  or  9060,1960-7 , sd 1970-p.a                                                          ecncrc   tnl1 adclt population egad 15 yesrs snd area'
Caudn  irth  ale lon thoeand)- A-nul live births par t.t.o..d Of mid-year.
pn= latinn   1960, 1970, sad 1978 dsn.tCnuynTI
CrdrDeajth ban(nt ~tho-ed) - hAonl deatha P.r thousad Of mid-yea.Pen                                ..ar Car   1::t Irr -io  and pnpu...i-n  - Pasenge  oats-.. coterie   mta
ppatc;1960, 1970, and 1978 data,cr   enn   estetngtprot   alds   muscs   ere   a
rsehRrounonSn  - Arenage nuber Of danghtsre a  oa   ill hour In                               lt-    hc
h- ..-I-p-d-t- ::ti    f -h    -   ti"".   P.....t  g.-T   if-      Sadic ORceitor  (per  h.c...dAppltir       ll cypes Of Irene ivarsfarra
til ity ratns;  -sly fi te-year  -nega  ening in 191., 1970, and 1i977.                      brcaucaste  ognrlpbi  per 'h-o.ead Of poulaio;    tlds oai-
family Plauing - cuertore. caual Ithauande) - anual combe  cf scoeptrs      ceco--pecriver....ccdncr.a.and lryeranh--regsnrsniin y                  radinhsa
of1 birth-controld deiesude           .nPi.es Of national fanyi plnig.rg.o in effect; data f-r  --cr    ....  nay not be coperble sinn  most
PamlyPla dia -Cets..otnto  married emn) - Perc-tnge Of maried                            c           bucrle  h -chnd licaning.
eso cfbchld-hearing age 111-4 yer)         .b   n  birth-control d-i-ce  t. c            ncinra(pr       .hcesd pcpolati-c   - TV' receivers for brosdcae to
allmarid a nIn s              g  grcup.                                                      geea   ubi   e   hoasn  .Popultion;  ntclodne unlitno.e   TV . onivar
FOD  N dM11fiSITIOA                                                                              i lcotrine  and tn yenre  h.. registration  Of TV nete ass La effect,
feeaoCIrclto   pr huadrnlap:tionit - Show  the avrage  ireala-
prndncthcn cf all  ood coodities.  Prouction ancodee sed and fne  ad         li-ntio  devotd prtiarily to recordfing  genra  newsi .   Inpisnaird
is  n  aena ;yea-      ase   Cnaities neve  primary goods (e.g.  narae                       tn ho "daily" if it appeon at leas.t fou  ti,se a enek,
inte d n ugr  whic  ar   dible and c-nie nutrIets Ira. coffee And                     Cieadou   tedneprCpt   e   r                      Ssdo   he  omber Of
to are excluded).  cggre-aIaAp-dd.ni.nof eachpountry i                                                                                 Yse...o
natios svnrageproducerprre w ights   -9,1h  1970,y and 1978d dana                  ticiketo acId during the ynar, including adn-isain   todiv-n..n
Pe  apt sorely,d. of  aloies  irreno t         9    5le  ns  - Coputd fro                    ed   obiln  aio
energyeqivlett          fe  fond supplies a_ailebla in c-wiy pot -epits                LAO    OC
per day.  Available eappline romprien domesic pOdoctlon, impots. lens                   Total Labor Force ithocean ds) - Etcoomcally antive Pe.s.-, intladie
seco,ed change  In en.SN topplies_t alde anim-l feed, seeds                          armd force  ad ugnpod ba,t entludig ho..ere-e, stadents  Ann,
q-acties  ne  in food p-n.esing, and beans in, ditetihotio.  Reqoir-                      bftnitni.Ona     Ori    coo..trir  are nOnt comparbi; 1960, 1970 and
meta woeeti-matd by PAC based on physlonl   de.i for narml -ti-                          ~      aa
city  and hsal th c-nideringeniona ltg.erat_e  bdy weights, age                          feae(ee)-Fml  lbrfreu   eneg   fntllbrfre
and na  dist,ibunica of pPoaIon  an  alloIng1pret for -ante  n                           Ancl        (eco)-lhrfr    nfrig  foesryhbntn  end
bcnsehnl d level; 1961-6), 1970, and 1977 dana.                                           fihnga  prena             ftotafl labor forte; 1960, 1970 an=d i9NO  data.
Pe-r .tenita supply of prane    (arm    -n den   - Protein co....te   Of pot capita        Induntrc (nrce.t) -Labor force in iei.a, c...nturtion                 '. -aafntoi
net supply of fond pot day.  Net eupply offodI.defined an ah.-   R.-                       and electricity,  n-e  and gas as pern-tege Of total hahor fonna; 1980,
qu'oet   oralcotris  established by liDA proide for minisi                                 1970 cod 1970 data
allewanre  f h;O grso  total protnia per day en  20 gram   Of aia  ad                   Prncnnintt  (or-oe..  -  atl mae,ad em                         - Partinipot -e   n
pu.e protein, Of which 10 gr   should be anima  protein.  Thn.tn-                          ctiyrte        .r opted aeI.tel. ml,            ad feal  labor fontsa
rde err lowe  than those Of 71 gras Of total prteio en  23 grn    fpretgso   oa,   aeedfml   ooebn  falae   epnisy
anial  rotinna  n aerae  or  he   ord,  rpsdb   a   nteThird                    16,17.ed17   ae   These ar   wspriiaiwrtesrfet
unrld Pond Survey; 1961-65. 1870 and ltMTP  dst9a.' :fdlt915't..                                                     t.ILO. p-i
mane  ar  fro   osirna  ecrne..,.d14t_                   A:_
rvdfrom   nimle sod polsee it Etr          per da;1961-h5, 1970 and 1977 dacs.   E-cuircre ncO              anr- tuic Of population under 15 an  65 and o.ar
Ibild lasee. 1-4) trtalt  Les   _a th,u-sdi      nn    danhe per th'cas"d i                    ncthe tonal lhor frco..
eg  grouP 1-A years. no children  in, this age Arnp; for mos developing con
crie  dsta derived from  life tablee; 1960, 1970 sa  1977 data..uNCOra DISTOlBCTION
u,Ezm                                                                                          Prrctahaa of Pri-st. Incm   (botiaceh  and. kind) - ..etivd by rinbmst
Life Eopectac  at gIrth mas            Anrge numbe   Of peare Of life remicing                 cf botoseho2lda-.P--dP.,.                                                   0   ...
at birth; 1961, 1970 and.1978 ddta
Infant ttortlit, Sate loot thouaaad)  A-1d a  d-anh  Of infants umder ony-                 POVEtTYt TuGfT lROliPS
ci  ge fer  houan   live birtha.                                                       Etatmted ihanlute Pnn-tn tl-m  Lana  ITS) pr cerina) - rhen and r.a. 1-
~restc ms Wter pnrenn  f eonlaman  - totl  ra.adrrl-N                               AenuepnrnIce   ee   stha   roslee  belo   ahna  inma
WN-er Of people )nocal, arhs, an   url  eithb rnev_ble  cc    to ef-atnitionlly adequate diet pins esetial annf-fod raqoi-etssnt
cainn  suPply liorludes treaoe  suface. entero  untreted bot un-otominted                    afodbe
P.rcennngre Of the it-repecticeppltin..                An,.rhtb.  ara      blic               oa   eatepnrc~cm   eeli   n-hr   faeaeprnpt
fno..aini c_  tiadpnst loca.ted art moens             nosfo      os   a   e                  pRsoall-mIf  i -c-n-np....Irnleatedeedfo thrrs
-niderrd asbeing  itnibt   nscalacs   fiht  hos.h ua   ra                                     ee   niajenn    c   iorcs   flvn    nubnaes
I all. 'a otter unede~ ~ ~ ~~~~h.h                                                   ih           I        gwI.tb
A    bes  .cmch -liano-Id   plrceot of    h..u.-if. -toa   urban sod            1                          i-    .-Ab.-P   :t.I
rua  -adururalc(-eoplet(tona, orhan,iendrurel) servd  by ea.rtn
P.se  ma   _cuew            c _terio an  dispo..sl, nith c-  ith-u  trn_an                                              cootn Analysis and Proje'tinm   Sep-nast
ci huanecrn   andeate-- Aster byan.ter-hb.n   syst-m   c  the una clOtohet 1900
pinpince  ed siut   iasltoa



Population      :  17.5 million (mid-1979)                              - 28 -                                                               Page 4 of 6
GNP Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)
TANZA.NIA - ECONOMIC INDICATOR sb/
Amount
(million US$ at                                         Annual Growth RatesQA74_
current prices)                        Actual                                             Projected
1979          1976       1977      1978      197i9     1980-    1981        1982      1983      1984      1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic productd/ -/            4,564.3           6.7        4.7       5.4       3.9      -1.5        3.7       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6
Agriculture-e                        2,210.2           9.8       7.5        7.4       8.0      -6.1       4.2        3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6
Industry                               549.0           0.9       3.1      -2.2        3.1         -       3.0       4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0
Services                             1,374.8           3.4       5.5       6.5        3.4       4.3       3.4        3.4       3.4       3.4       3.4 '
Consumption                            4,115.8            1.6      12.3      14.6      -3.4       1.7       4.6        1.9       3.2       3.1       3.2
Gross investment                         958.6          11.5        2.1       3.8      10.9      -6.2        3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6
Exports of GNFS                          647.9          16.8    -22.8        -2.4      -2.8      -9.6        1.7       7.9       5.2       5.2       5.3
Imports of GNFS                        1,158.0           0.5       4.4       34,9    -19.2        1.3      -2.9       -1.       2.9       2.6       3.0
Gross national savings                   468.0          64.5       -6.8    -58.0       99.4    -16.9    -23.9         19.0       8.8       9,7       8.8
PRICES
GDP deflator (1978 = 100)                               77.2       92.4    100.3    108.5    124.8    140.4    154.4    168.3    181.8    194.5
Exchange rate (T.Sh. per US$)                            8.4        8.3       7.7       8.3       8.2       8.2        8.2       8.2       8.2       8.2
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                    Average Annual Increase (7.)
_   (_at current  )rices)c l                              constant   78  rices)
1970      1975      1983 -1985-         1990      -1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product-/                               100.0    103J.0    100.3    100.0    103.0             4.9         4.1          3.6         3.6
Agriculturee/                                         36.9      36.9       47.5      47.8      47.9        2.1          5.8         3.7          3.6
Industry                                              15.5      14.5      11.9       12.3      12.3        3.7          0.7         3.9         4.0
Services                                              37.2      37.8       31.1      30.8      30.6        6.5          4.6         3.4          3.4
Consumption                                             81.9       91.7      90.3      88.2      86.4         5.9         6.0          3.1         3.1
Gross investment                                        22.5       21.1      20.0      18.0      18.0         0.2         4.6          2.1         3.6
Exports SNFS                                           -24.0    -18.2    -12.!    -13.9    -15.2             -5.3        -6.2          5.3         5.4
Imports GNFS                                            28.4      31.0       22.5      20.2      19.7       -3.8          4.2         1.1          3.0
Gross national savings                                  18.3       7.8       9.9       11.6      13.5       -2.4         -3.6         5.7          7.0
As 7 o f GDP
PUBLIC FINANC'                                                     197D    1975       1979
Curreas  rejoaues                                                17.5    20.2    18.5
Current expendi-tres                                             16.2    20.2    23.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        1.3         -    -5.4
Capital expenditure                                               8.3    11.6    12.7
Foreign financing                                                 2.0      5.4      6.7
1970-75     1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (7)                                     4.7          4.2         3.6          3.6
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                          1.3          0.8         0.2          0.2
ICOR                                                    5.0         5.5          5.1          5.1
Marginal savings rate                                  -0.1         -0.1         0.1          0.2
Import elasticity                                      -0.8          1.0         0.3          0.8
a/  Estimate
b/  Apart from trade projectiors , which include small but offsetting amounts of Zanzibar trade, all data in this table are for Mainland
Tanzania only.
c/  Projected years at constant prices.
d/  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
e/  Historical trend from 1973 to 1979 is based on official estimates, which include subsistence production growth rate of 8.67  per
annum. We estimate that a more realistic growth rate for subsistence production over this period would be nearer 4% per annum,
reducing agricultural growth to 3.4% per annum and GDP groxwth to 3.6% per annum.



I' ulat.Ipn    :  17.5 .I , IIIn e.Id-1979^ 29 -Anr    .
GPNI ler l:Cpitl:  11S1 2711 milI Inn (19791                                                                                                                        -age 5  F
TAN7ANIA - BALANCE OF PAYMEN7TS, EXTERNAL CLA?iTA:. AND DIEBT
(million US$ at current prices,
Actual                           a/                               Pr.ject.d
Indicator                     197         1976       1977        1978       1979       1981       1981        1982       1983       1984       1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of goods and services                  .350.4     647.2      669.6      631.2       705.6      740.6      741.8      851.1    .979.2   1,123.7   1,286.1   2,289.9
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.              259.3      492.4       547.7      479.2      543.5       572.7      558.2      643.2      744.8       860.4      991.8   1,796.3
imports of goods and services                377.9       729.6      853.4   1,271.1    1,224.3   1,452.7   1,596.5   1,756.3   1,964.2   2,182.8   2,423.7   3,900.7
of which: !iychandise c.i.f.               318.4       630.5      750.3   1,146.5   1,099.6   1,299.1    1,412.9   1,549.1    1,732.6   1,932.3   2.149,2   3,488.1
Net transfer-                                   5.6      -16.4       11.9        19.2       28.1       20.0       21.6       23.3        25.2       27.2       29.4       43.2
Current account balance                       -21.9      -98.8    -171.9    -520.7    -490.6    -692.1    -833.1    -881.9    -959.7  -1,031.9  -1,108.2  -1,567.6
Official grant receipts                         6.2      119.0      135.0       214.1      321.4      380.9      410.4      443.2       478.7      517.0      558.3      820.4
M 6 LT loans (net)                             38.1       97.1      162.3      151.1       255.8      329.3      392.7      408.7      451.0       484.9      569.8      772.2
official1c                                  41.2       107.1      168.0      158.1      162.4       196.1      341.9      377.5      439.8       476.6      577.9      775.9
Private                                     -3.1       -10.0       -5.7       -7.0       93.4       133.1       50.9       31.2        11.3        8.3       -8.1       -3.6
Other capital                                 -29.8      -67.7       10.5      -14.6        -4.7        2.9       50.0        50.0       50.0          -      -36.0
Change in reserves (--increane)                 7.4      -49.6    -135.9       270.1       -81.9      -20.1      -20.0      -20.0       -20.0      -20.0      -20.0      -25.0
International reserves                       107.5       164.4      300.3       30.2      112.1       132.1      152.1      172.1       192.1      212.1      232.1      357.1
Reserves as months imports                      3.4        2.7        4.2        0.3         1.1        1.1        1.1         1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2         1.1
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                            60.5      238.2      326.3      382.5       596.9      763.8
Official grants                              6.2       119.0      135.0      214.1      321.4       380.10
Conce,sion.l loans                          40.4        93.6      149.5      112.6      103.8       179.7
DAC-                                      20.1       58.0        73.7       64.1       33.2        33.1
OiEC                                          -        1.0        6.5        1.2        1.2        35.5
IDA                                        9.4       29.0        39.3       24.4       39.0       49.4
Other                                     10.9         5.6       30.0       22.9       30.4        61.6
Non-concessional loans                       13.9       25.6       41.8       63.4       171.7      204.1
Official export credits                       -        7.3          -       21.7       32.1         6.8
IBRD                                       4.8       17.1        30.4       31.3       36.6       31.8
Other ultilateral                             -          -        3.1        7.6        5.3        14.4
Private                                    9.1         1.2        8.3        2.8       97.7      151.0
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed             322.7   1,026.3   1,218.6   1,260.1    1,422.0   1,751.3
Official                                 193.4      965.7   1,158.5   1,201.4   1,266.6    1,462.7
Private                                  129.3        60.6       60.1       58.7      155.4      288.5
Undisbursed debt                           408.4       536.6      560.4      617.5      699.6       679.7
Debt service
Total service payments                     -26.3       -41.7      -51.2      -49.6       49.7       -98.2
Interest                                 -10.1      -19.5      -22.3       -24.7      -30.0      -43.7
Pa,omcnti  as 7 exports                      7.5         6.4        7.6        7.9        7.1        13.,
Average interest rate on ne. loens.%)           1.6        2.6        3.1        2.6         5.5        4.5
Official                                      1.5        2.3        3.1        2.6        4.0
Private           -                          7.0         8.3        9.3        ..         8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)          38.8       38.0       34.7       35.4        21.1       27.3
Official                                    39.7        39.9       34.7       35.4       27.0
Private                                      7.2         5.0       14.8        ..         9.7
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Miost Recent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due vithin 5 years                                                                             28.4
Maturities due vithin 10 years                                                                            62.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due vithin first year                                                                             3.0
*1 Eatimate
b/ Excludes official grant receipts.
e/  Includes financing of projected gap on IDA terms.



pulation     :  17.5 million (mid-1979)                              - 30 -Annex I
.i' Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)                                                                                                     Page 6 of 6
TANZANIA - EXTERNAL TRADE-/
Amount                                             Annual Growth Rates (7)
Indicator            (million US$ at                                       (at constant 1978 prices)
current prices)                        Actual                      ,                   Proiected
1979           1976      1977      1978      1979      1980-    1981       1982      1983      1984      1985
FERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             543.6            7.8    -19.4        -6.5       6.1     -7.8       2.1       8.5       5,3       5.3       5,3
Major primary products        339.5            9.5    -20.1       -9.7      -0.1      -4.8       3.0       8.8      4.1       4.1       4.1
Others                        204.1            3.3    -18.1        2.7      21.5    -14.0          -      8.0       8.0        8.0      8.0
Merchandise imports           1,099.6          -16.4        7.7     36.8      -18.8      1.0      -3.4      -1.5       2.8       2.8       2.9
Foodgrains                     19.3          -65.2      23.3    -14.7      -42.4   334.0       -3.0    -47,5           -         -         -
Petroleum                    171.7            11.0    -11.5       12.8      -8.9      2.1      -7.9       5.0       3.1       3.3       3.4
Machinery and equipment    515.0             -15.2      25.1      55.1     -10.0    -7.6       -5.4       2.9        2.9       2.9      2.9
Others                        393.6          -13.9       0.7      33.9    -28.9    -7.6         0.7        3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
,!ICES
Export price index                              77.4    106.9    100.0    106.9   122.1    116.6    123.8    136.2    149.4    163.4
Import price index                              81.1      89.5    100.0      118.2   138.2    155.7    173.3    188.5    234.4    220.9
ferms of trade index                            95.4    119.4    100.0        90.4    88.3       74.9      71.4      72.2      73.1      74.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                   Average Annual Increase(%)
(at current prices)                           (at constant 1978 prices)
1970      1975      1980      1985      1990      1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0            -4.5        -5.2         5.6         5.5
Major primary products                        59.2      66.3      69.2      67.6      63.5        0.2         -6.9         5.0         4.1
Others                                        40.8      33.7      30.8      32.4      36.5      -12.9         -1.0         6.8         8.0
Imports                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0            1.8          2.6         0.9         3.0
Foodgrains                                     2.5      15.3       9.2       4.5       3.9       44.8         -5.8       -14.1           -
Petroleum                                      8.5      11.9      12.7      13.1      13.7        4.8            -         2.0         3.9
Machinery and equipment                       35.2      30.8      41.2      38.8      36.9        0.7         11.1         1.7         2.9
Others                                        53.8      42.0      36.9      43.6      45.5       -1.7         -3.3         2.7         3.1
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (X)    Developing Countries (%)    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970    1975    1978           1970    1975    1978                1970    1975    1978
[RECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                       54.0    48.2    68.0           40.0    43.3    23.2                  0.6      0.4      0.7
Imports                                       57.9    59.7    74.2           27.3    25.1    17.9                  1.2      3.2      0.8
Estimate
Data are for all Tanzania (Mainland and Zanzibar)



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF APRIL 30, 1981
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and fifteen credits fully disbursed                 77.20        115.26
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                  10.80      0.01
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                 10.30      0.11
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                           17.50      5.20
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                          21.00                    1.22
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                8.50      0.58
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                              10.20      1.73
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                10.00      1.46
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                               9.00                    0.18
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                            10.00      5.61
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                            15.00                    1.74
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank         15.00                    0.97
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                              6.00      1.75
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                           18.00      8.50
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                  11.00      5.60
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                    30.00              0.72
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                            7.00                    2.15
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                         9.00      6.79
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                8.00      1.01
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                 15.00                    5.47
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex              11.50              2.25
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex   11.50                         1.61
703-TA    1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                        7.20      5.11
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                        12.00    10.44
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                         15.00      9.99
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank         15.00                    1.88
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                 27.50     9.20
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                 14.00    11.77
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                    12.00      8.27
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                   25.00                   24.60
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                 20.00    17.33
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                           14.00    13.08
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                  12.00    11.87
875-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                           30.00    19.13
1650-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper            30.00                   29.65
876-TA    1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                    20.50    20.48
1745-TA    1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.             11.00                    6.44
1750-TA    1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank        25.00                   21.03
S-24-TA    1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port
Engineering                                  2.50      1.61
987-TA 2/ 1980  Tanzania  Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                         10.00    10.00
1007-TA    1980  Tanzania  Pyrethrum                                        10.00    10.00
1015-TA 2/ 1980  Tanzania  Grain Storage & Milling                          43.00    43.00
1037-TA    1980  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                  14.00    14.00
S-27-TA    1980  Tanzania  Songo-Songo Petroleum                            30.00    19.27
1056-TA    1980  Tanzania  Education VII                                    25.00    25.00
1060-TA 3/ 1981  Tanzania  Second Technical Assistance                      11.00    11.00
1070-TA 3/ 1981  Tanzania  Coconut Pilot                                     6.80      6.80
1133-TA273/1981  Tanzania  Export Rehabilitation Program                    50.00    50.00
TotalJ  -                                                276.70 41.50 631.06
of which has been repaid                               15.24    -    9.01
Total now outstanding                                 261.46 41.50 622.05
Amount sold                           .09
of which has been repaid            .09
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                        261.46 41.50 622.05
Total undisbursed                                         96.94  2.97 365.70   465.61
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Not yet effective.
3/   Sixth replenishment; approximate US$ equivalent of SDR-s.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF APRIL 30, 1981
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.40
638-EA  1969    EAHC           Harbours             35.00              0.52
674-EA  1970    EARC           Railways             42.40              0.03
865-EA  1972    EAHC           Harbours             26.50              0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC          Telecommunications  32.50               0.34
1204-EA  1976    EADB           Development Finance 15.00               3.38
Total                                           244.80              4.62
of which has been repaid                      63.80
Total now outstanding                           181.00
Amount sold                      24.36
of which has been repaid       24.36            0.00
Total now held by Bank 1/                       181.00
Total undisbursed                                 4.62               6.38
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of April 30, 1981)
There are currently 44 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea Authority
(TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing and this has
had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved control over
field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all factories.
Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha
of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and
yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976 survey of the
tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and effective rehabili-
tation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba area. Recommenda-
tions of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry techniques, field organi-
zation, TTA structure and extension activities are also being implemented. In
general, progress on the project is improving. Since eligible disbursements
will be completed within three months of the closing date, this date was
not postponed.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. In the meat processing component,
the settlement of a dispute between the Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
and the contractor enabled completion of the meat plant in Kawe; the two new
meat plans in Shinyanga and Mbeya will be completed by June 1981. There is
little change in other project components, where major difficulties remain to
be resolved. Since the Credit is expected to be fully disbursed within three
months of the Closing Date of December 31, 1980, this date was not postponed.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project has continued to show good progress. However, in view
of the failure of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the
project must now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research
project rather than an agricultural production project. A major objective is
now to develop a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The
most significant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well
distributed and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruit-
ment of staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. However, the project continues to face problems
arising from a sharp decline in the marketed production of raw nuts. The
producer price has been recently increased and the Cashewnut Authority (CATA)
is considering the introduction of additional incentive and tree-planting
schemes for farmers, but these measures are not likely to have a significant
impact for several years. As a result, the completed cashewnut factories are
expected to operate well below capacity for a number of years.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Despite senior staff changes in the Region and continuing procure-
ment constraints, construction of agricultural and other training facilities,
as well as water supply and feeder roads, is proceeding satisfactorily. The
coffee rehabilitation and expansion program, and the land-use surveying and
mapping, are also making reasonable progress. While the keeping of crop
records is not yet regular or systematic, there has been a substantial increase



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
in maize, bean and cotton production in the Project area. However, the
village fertilizer trials have yet to produce conclusive results, and
recommendations for recasting the trials are under review. The Project is not
likely to be completed before June 30, 1982. Consequently, the closing date
has been postponed to December 31, 1983.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project work is virtually completed. Kilombero Sugar Company s
(KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and is expected to
exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane yields. A new
management advisory agreement for a further two years with emphasis on
agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of the Sugar
Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard to the
Sugar Development Corporations request to Treasury to consider KSC-s proposals
as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide KSC TSh. 100
million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish sources. The
loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years repayment including
5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed by the
Treas-ry. As the credit fully disbursed within three months of the December
31, 1980 closing date, this date was not postponed.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project continues to progress on all fronts at a very slow pace.
There has been a delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma Commercial
Center, a major shortfall in the purchase of boats for the coastal centers and
a postponement of procurement of lake transport facilities (pending adequate
fish catches on Lake Tanganyika). However, engines for the coastal vessels
have been received and are being assembled for installation. Loans to five
villages have been approved by TRDB under the Ujamaa Village Program.
Agreement has been reached with the Crown Agents of the U.K. for the pro-
vision of technical assistance staff.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some progress with regard to village
participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high potential maize
regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome if the
project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm review of



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft proposal for a
three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential for increasing
production exists, extending the project period from July 1979 to June 1982.
The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify the project
activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the project has been
agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
There was some improvement in project implementation during 1980
as a result of stricter budget and cost control by the Livestock Development
Authority (LIDA) and the Dairy Farming Company (DAFCO). Farm management is
also improving and production costs per litre of milk are somewhat lower than
in 1978 and 1979. However, the financial prospects for the parastatal farms
remain poor and Ujamaa village development is negligible. The Government is
considering alternative approaches to re-capitalization of the dairy farms and
has also requested a reallocation of credit funds from Ujamaa village produc-
tion to smallholder dairying. The project will continue to be kept under
close review. A decision on whether to postpone the closing date to allow
completion of the project will be taken shortly.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
After a slow start and serious management problems during the
first year, project implementation has improved considerably and is now
ahead of schedule. Plantation targets have been exceeded in spite of labor
shortages, a lack of equipment and a prolonged drought during the last
planting season. All key staff have been appointed and there are no serious
procurement or disbursement problems.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation has slowed down considerably as a result of
severe and continuing shortages of construction materials and diesel fuel.
These shortages have affected all components, except land-use planning which
is proceeding satisfactorily. The roads and water supply programs have been
the worst affected and are also suffering from shortages of technical staff.
The agricultural trials and production program, too, appears to have been
disrupted by the recent drought. Project management is attempting to resolve
the materials shortages by increasing the use of local substitutes. However,
overall progress in institution-building is likely to remain slow.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Factory con-
struction is ahead of schedule despite a shortage of cement. However, the
appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at exist-
ing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. As with the First
Project, the prospects for operation of the new facilities at full capacity
are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
Credit No. 987-TA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Closing
Date - December 31, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This credit became effective on April 20, 1981.
Credit 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of August 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date - April 27, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on April 27, 1981
Credit 1070-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of October 24, 1080; Date of Effectiveness - April 20, 1981;
Closing Date - March 31, 1986
This credit became effective on April 20, 1981.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
All facilities have been completed with the exception of three
Community Education Centers. The project is expected to be completed and
the credit fully disbursed within three to four months after the revised
Closing Date of December 31, 1980. This date was, therefore, not postponed.
All completed facilities are in operation with the exception of the Bagamoyo
College of National Education which will be used for the in-service training
of primary school science teachers.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. The Village
Management Technicians training program was completed on schedule in
July 1980 with 1,500 technicians trained. The primary education subsector



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
review and the secondary education facilities survey are in progress. Prepara-
tion of diversified curricula for general secondary education and staffing
plans for the project secondary schools are also in preparation. There are
reasonable prospects that the project will be completed by its Closing Date.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
The Ministry of Labor has appointed a representative to the Project
Unit and is working with the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating
project implementation, is still largely in the design phase. Due to the
rapid increase in construction cost, the cost of civil works to be financed
under the project is estimated to be at least 40% above appraisal estimate..
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Education Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
This credit became effective on December 29, 1980.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment
of project coordinator is being finalized and the consultants for the rehabi-
litation of project lodges and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. It was necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to
address the problems which have been encountered in its implementation; these
changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway Project. The
previous Closing Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31,
1982 to allow for completion of the project and the disbursement. The
technical assistance contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in
November 1979, and the Government is now recruiting individual experts to
complete the project.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3, 1980;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on December 3, 1980 and will involve
follow-up to Credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of the national trunk
road system. All three key advisers and six key local staff are now in post.
In addition, ten individual specialists for various other technical assistance
positions have been recruited.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
August 13, 1980 Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit became effective on August 13, 1980 and is progressing
well. The consultants have submitted a number of reports and drawings to the
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA) for their review and comment. The only
major problem is one of coordination concerning the commissioning of the new
oil jetty which requires that all of the necessary pipe work link to the
refinery and the existing network be completed and ready for use as soon as
the jetty is completed. This problem has been raised with THA and it was asked
to take a firm decision on who will prepare the design, carry out the actual
site work, and finance the foreign exchange costs of those activities.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. As the remaining balance under the
Credit of US$1,713,650 is expected to be fully disbursed within three to four
months after the December 31, 1980 closing date, this date was not postponed.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates.  These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO has



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost is
US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost over-
run of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. Plans to
make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap is being
reviewed. An EEC Special Action Credit (No. 55-7A) in the amount of US$7.0
million, to be administered by IDA, has been allocated to this project.
Credit S-27-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
September 12, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1982
This Credit became effective on September 12, 1980 and most bidding
documents have been received and approved. Drilling of the onshore well began
in January 1981, slightly behind schedule because of shipment delay. Drilling
of the offshore well has not started because no bids were received. Both
the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) and the drilling manage-
ment consultants are actively pursuing all avenues for the acquisition of a
contract rig capable of meeting the requirements.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
This loan is fully committed. However, because of slow implemen-
tation of some of the sub-projects financed by TIB under this project, the
closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 in order to finalize
disbursement. The undisbursed balance remaining under the loan to date is
US$1,463,031.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1981.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Total commitments as of March 31, 1980 were US$4.74 million (net of
cancellations) for consultancy services, training and project unit services.
The procedures for processing proposals have been streamlined and are working
well. The credit will be fully committed by December 1980. The Closing Date
was postponed to June 30, 1981 in order to complete disbursement.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of
this project is being administered by IDA.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - April 15, 1980
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Site preparation and procurement have been proceeding satisfactorily
with contract for the main civil/structural work signed and most of the major
equipment packages awarded. Good progress has also been made for arrangements
on railway spur and escarpment roads. As a result of primarily changes
in current values, delay in implementing essential related infrastructure
components outside the project, particularly the power line and the township,
and unanticipated taxes payable to the Government, the estimated project cost
has increased by about 15%. This cost overrun is anticipated to be covered by
appreciation of currencies to be provided by cofinanciers, by contingent
financing from the Nordic Investment Bank, and by savings obtained by the
Government on equipment packages.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project:
US$11 million credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981: Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on February 10, 1981.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
both countries is competent. Some US$34.50 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.15
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                      (US$ million)
Kenya                                   0.7
Tanzania                                0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                   1.7
Tanzania                                0.3
Total                              2.0



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been com-
pleted; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage of
the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$32.16 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$11.62 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
As of April 30, 1981
Fiscal Year             Obligor             Type of Business       Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing           3.96    0.70    4.66
1978             Highland Soap and           Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979             Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                        6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC              2.71    0.54    3.25
Total Undisbursed                              0.06      -       0.06



- 49 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events.
(a) First presentation to the Association
and date of first Association Mission         : September 1979
(b)  Appraisal mission                             : April/May 1980
(c)  Completion of negotiations                    : March 1981
(d)  Estimated date of effectiveness               : December 1981
Section II. Special Association Implementation Actions.
None
Section III. Special Conditions.
(a) By September 30, 1981, TPTC would propose and agree with the
Association on a method for valuation of its fixed assets
and would revalue annually its fixed assets on the basis of
such agreed method, starting with the financial statements
for the year ending December 31, 1981 (para. 53);
(b) TPTC would achieve an annual rate of return on revalued net
fixed telecommunications assets of not less than 12% after
taxes (para. 53);
(c) By December 31, 1982, TPTC would have completed a study of
the structure of its tariffs. By June 30, 1983, TPTC
would furnish to the Association for its review and
comments, the results and the implementation implications
of this tariff structure study (para. 55); and
(d) By December 31, 1981, TPTC would submit to the Association
for its review and comments, a report containing analysis
and recommendations for improving bill issuance and
collection of receivables (para. 56).



