Doc      I~fREDIT NUMBER 1173 TA
Project Agreement
(Teleco=unications Project)
betveen
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMUNICATIONS
CORPORATION
Dated            it      Q   (f    , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1173 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     10A &X 0   q             , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
(hereinafter called TPTC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-two million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,100,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that TPTC agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TPTC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to TPTC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TPTC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TPTC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering, and financial practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist TPTC with the studies under
Part J of the Project, TPTC shall employ consultants whose qual-
ifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) TPTC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by TPTC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, TPTC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) TPTC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) TPTC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Upon award Zy £PTC of any contract for goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TPTC and the
Association, TPTC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by TPTC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) TPTC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine such plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property, equipment, records and documents of TPTC as are relevant
to the performance of TPTC's obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. TPTC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, TPTC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) TPTC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) TPTC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by TPTC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TPTC
Section 3.01. (a) TPTC shall conduct its operations and
affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with


﻿-4-
sound engineering, industrial and financial standards and prac-
tices, with qualified management and assisted by qualified and
competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) TPTC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
(c) TPTC shall operate and maintain all its equipment and
properties, and from time to time make all necessary renewals
and replacements thereof in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
(d) If TPTC establishes or acquires any subsidiary, it
shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations
of TPTC hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall
or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were
binding upon such subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TPTC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) TPTC shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than eight months for fiscal year 1981, seven
months for fiscal year 1982 and six months for fiscal years
thereafter, after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of TPTC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿5-
(b) So long as the assets acquired by, and liabilities
incurred by, EAPTC and EA EXTELCOMS shall not have been finally
allocated among the Borrower, the Republic of Uganda and the
Republic of Kenya: (i) such accounts and financial statements may
be prepared on a pro forma basis in accordance with such assump-
tions as TPTC chooses to make concerning such assets and liabili-
ties; (ii) such audit report may be qualified insofar as TPTC's
financial statements reflect such assumptions; (iii) all calcula-
tions made to ascertain TPTC's compliance with the provisions of
this Article shall be based on such accounts and financial state-
ments; and (iv) revaluations of assets pursuant to Section 4.03
(b) (ii) shall, insofar as the identity of the assets to be
revalued is concerned, be based on the assets reflected in such
statements and accounts and shall, insofar as the values to be
placed on them is concerned, be regarded as provisional.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, TPTC shall take all necessary steps to achieve an annual
rate of return of not less than 12% on the revalued net fixed
telecommunications assets in operation.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the net telecommunications operating
income for the year in question to the average of
revalued net fixed telecommunications assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of that
year;
(ii) the term "revalued net fixed telecommunications
assets in operation" shall mean the gross book
value of fixed assets used by TPTC for telecom-
munications services, less the amount of accumu-
lated depreciation, as valued and revalued from
time to time in accordance with sound and consis-
tently maintained methods of valuation acceptable
to the Association and TPTC. For purposes of this
Section, TPTC shall adopt by September 30, 1982 a
method of valuation, under accounting principles
acceptable to the Association and TPTC, for the
fixed telecommunications assets which it owns and
of any fixed telecommunications assets acquired by
EAPTC which it operates; and TPTC shall thereafter
revalue, on the basis of such method, the fixed


﻿-6-
assets included in its financial statements as at
the end of its fiscal year ending December 31,
1982, and each subsequent fiscal year, in the event
that as at each such date there is reasonable cause
to believe that such assets have appreciated in
value by more than ten per cent over the value
placed on them at the last such revaluation,
whether owing to inflation, changes in the respect-
ive values or currencies or other causes; and
(iii) the term "net telecommunications operating income"
shall mean the difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from TPTC's
telecommunications services; and
(B) the operating, maintenance and administration
expenses, taxes (if any) and adequate provi-
sion for depreciation on revalued fixed assets
in operation but excluding interest and other
charges on debt, all related to telecommunica-
tions services.
Section 4.04. (a) TPTC shall carry out a study of its tariff
structure by June 30, 1983, or such later date as the Associa-
tion may agree. The terms of reference for this study shall
be acceptable to the Association and TPTC and shall include: (a)
the possibility of differentiation in rates between manual and
automatic long-distance calls; (b) criteria and methods for
determining, and reflecting in TPTC's records, the class of each
of its subscribers as between Government, business and private
subscribers; and (c) levels of various charges applied to tele-
communications services. TPTC shall furnish a copy of such study,
together with its comments on the implications of its implementa-
tion, to the Association by December 31, 1983, or such later date
as the Association may agree.
(b) TPTC shall carry out a study of the impact of tele-
communications services on economic development by June 30,
1983, or such other date as the Association may agree, in accor-
dance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
Such study shall include a survey on the usage of telecommunike.-
tions services by current and potential customers.


﻿-7-
Section 4.05. TPTC shall submit a report to the Association
for its review and comment not later than September 30, 1982,
containing its analysis of and its recommendations for improving
TPTC's bill issuance procedures and collection of its receivables.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of TPTC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after .the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
TPTC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿-8-
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TPTC:
Tanzania Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation
P.O. Box 9070
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                      Telex:
TANPOSTEL                          41054
Dar es Salaam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TPTC may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and TPTC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /$     7Se... W<r"LA
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CORPORATION
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of inter-national
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of pat)agraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, TPTC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing (such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. TPTC shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 11 -
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2. After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of TPTC and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Tanzania equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 12 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for spare parts which do not exceed in the aggre-
gate the equivalent of $750,000 may be awarded on the basis of
negotiated contracts under procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Contracts for vehicles, construction materials and main-
tenance equipment which are estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $150,000 each, but which do not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $750,000, may be procured in accor-
dance with local procurement procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, TPTC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, TPTC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform TPTC
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 13 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, TPTC shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform TPTC and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, TPTC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform TPTC and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 -4.
FOR SECRETARY


