~~Q?N             RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-32a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST PAKISTAN
March 31, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
US$ 1.00                       = Rupees (Re) 4.762
Rs 1                           - US$ 0.21
Ra 1 million                   a US$ 210,000
WEIGHTS AND MELSURES
(English System)
1 acre (ac)                   -  0.405 hectare
1 mile (mi)                    = 1.609 kilometers
1 square mile (sq mi)         =  640 ac
= 259 hectares
1 foot (ft)                    = 30.5 centimeters
1 long ton (lg ton)           -  1.016 metric ton
1 cubic foot per second
(cusec)                   -   0.028 cubic meters per second
(Local units)
1 maund                       =  0.0367 lg ton
= 82.28 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
EPADC       - East Pakistan Agricultural
Development Corporation.
EWAPDA      - East Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority.
IRRI        -  International Rice Research Institute.
SOPD        -  Survey of Pakistan Datum
(mean sea level).
TIP         - Thana Irrigation Program.



EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ... ...................        .....       i - ii
I.        INTRODUCTION      .....................................     1
II.       BACKGROUND .       ..................................       1
III.      REVIEW OF THE HISTORY OF CHANDPUR PROJECT,
CREDIT 40-PAK ........... .......................         3
Evolution of a New Irrigation Design ........          4
Existing Works in the Project Area ..........          5
IV.       THE PROJECT AREA ....... ..........................         6
General .....................................          6
Soils and Climate ......    ............... ......     6
Population       ..................................    7
Farm Size and Land Tenure .........  to .......        7
Agriculture and Cropping Patterns      ...........     7
Supporting Agricultural Services      ...........      7
Transportation ..............................          8
Markets ...... , ..........................            9
V.        THE PROJECT .......................9
Project Works... .                                    10
Project Staff. ..                                     11
Water Resources and Quality       .    .    .11
Status of Engineering .......................         11
Low-lift Portable Pumps         ....                  12
Construction Schedule         ....12
Cost Estimates .        ........ . ........ . .       13
Procurement..                                         15
Disbursement .                  .                     15
Project Accounts and Audit   .         .16
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to East
Pakistan in July 1969, composed of Messrs. D.G. Reese, H.T. Chang,
H.P. Dugan and P. Eklund who all contributed to the report with Mr. Reese
having primary responsibility.



-2-
Page No.
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT               .       .            16
A. Coordination and Management .17
Project Coordination .17
Project Management .17
B. Operation and Maintenance .                        18
Operation and Maintenance of Major Works.        18
Operation and Maintenance of Low-lift
Pumps ..                                       s18
C. Agricultural Development and Credit                19
D.  Recovery of Project Costs .20
VII.      PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND
FARM INCOME .20
Production ....................                       20
Market Prospects ....................                 21
Prices ....                                           22
Value of Production .........................         22
Farmers' Incomes ..............                       23
VIII.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ,... ...........                 24
IX.       RECOMMENDATIONS ....................... - ...........       25
ANNEXES
1.   Present Status of Project Works
2.   Soils, Topography and Climate
3.   Farm Size and Acreage Distribution
4.   Land Use, Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
5.   Agricultural Development
6.   Thana Irrigation Program
7.  Project Works
8.   Water Resources, Requirements and Quality
9.   General Contracting Schedule
10.  Requirements for and Availability of Materials,
and Land for Major Works
11.  Capital Cost Estimates
12.  Organization Charts
13. Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
14.  Farm Production and Pump Operation Costs
15.  Rate of Return to the Economy
16.  Recovery of Project Costs - Repayment Capacity of Farmers.
17.  Market Prospects and Prices for Agricultural Commodities
Map



EAkST PAMISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY PAND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the completion of the Chandpur
flood protection and irrigaticn development in East Pakistan, for which an
IDA credit of US$ 13 million equivalent is proposed.
ii.       East Pakistan is predominantly agricultural but, in contrast to
West Pakistan, output has failed to keep pace with population growth and
the province relies increasingly on imported foodgrains. Efforts to attain
self-sufficiency depend heavily upon providing flood protection in the rainy
season and irrigation in the dry season. IDA has financed two completed
water development projects, Dacca-Deara Irrigation and the Brahmaputra
Flood Control Embankment, and has helped finance general consultants to
the East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (EPWAPDA).
iii.      The Chandpur development was started in 1963 with the help of a
further IDA credit (40-PAK) for US$ 9 million. The original design included
a conventional irrigation system but, because the area is extremely densely
populated and farms very small, it proved impossible to acquire land for
the canals. The irrigation works were stopped, and the credit reduced to
about US$ 5 million in 1965, but work on flood protection continued until
1967. Consultants, Leedshill-DeLeuw (U.S.), were engaged in 1968 to pre-
pare a revised project. Total expenditure was US$ 12 million equivalent
up to June 1969..
iv.       The problems encountered at Chandpur and elsewhere in East Pakistan
have led to a new design concept. in brief, this is:
(a) flood protection works will be followed by gradual
reduction in annual £lood levels allowing farmers to
modify gradually their traditional practices;
(b) natural drainage channels, improved where necessary, will
be used to distribute irrigation water pumped from nearby
rivers;
(c)  small portable putiipsg each serving about 50 ac, will be
used to lift irrigation water from these channels to
fields; and
(d) each project will include an intensive agricultural sup-
port program, as well as distribution of new varieties and
inputs.
v.        The works necessary to apply this concept at Chandpur include
construction of a further 29 miles of embankments, with regulators and a
1,200-cusec pumping station, to complete flood protection for the



- ii -
140,000-ac gross project area; improvement of main drainage channels;
provision of 1,500 portable pumps to irrigate 75,000 ac; an agricultural
support program; and provision of consultants.
vi.       The estimated cost of the project is US$ 22.7 million equivalent
of which US$ 5.1 million is in foreign exchange.  Contracts totalling about
US$ 7.1 million for civil and mechanical works for the regulators and for
procurement of portable pumps and related itens would be awarded after
international competitive bidding. The remaining costs, US$ 15.6 million
equivalent, would be mainly for land acquisit:Lon; local construction; per-
sonnel and overheads; and consultants.
vii.      E-'WAPDA, assisted by consultants, wcould be responsible for super-
vision and construction of major works, and their operation and maintenance.
A special section of the Agriculture Department would be responsible for
the agricultural support program.
viii.     The project would allow farmers to increase yields in the wet
season and increase the area cultivated in the dry season. Rice production
would be trebled, saving some US$ 11 million yier annum in foreign exchange.
Farmers would pay a "rental" charge which, by the tenth year would be suffi-
cient to cover the full annual cost of supplying and operating portable
pumps. Government will submit to IDA, within 18 months, a plan for re-
covery of the operation and maintenance cost Df other works and, beginning
in the tenth year, of as much as practicable of capital costs. The total
farm income, including food, of a tlypical family would increase from the
present near-subsistence level, US$ 280, to over US$ 600 as a result of
the project.  The rate of return to the economy is estimated at 22%, includ-
ing the salvage value of materials and equipment purchased from credit 40-PAK,
with the proposed construction schedule covering three years.  If construction
took five years, the return would be 18%.
ix.       The proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 13
million.  The credit would finance foreign exchange costs plus about 49% of
local costs (US$ 8 million equivalent), a proportion considered justified
in view of Pakistan's economic situation.  It is proposed that the credit
would include retroactive financing, up to a maximum of US$ 700,000, of
contracts for construction of regulators.
x.        The Government of Pakistan would make the proceeds of the credit
available to the Province of East Pakistan on the same terms as those of
the IDA credit. East Pakistan would provide all additional funds needed
to complete the project. A project agreement would be signed by East
Pakistan.



EAST P&KISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTROlDUCTION
1.01      The Government of Pakistan has requested an IDA credit to help
finance the completion of the Chandpur Irrigation Project. IDA made a credit
(40-PAK) of US$ 9 million in 1963 for this flood protection and irrigation
project but later, in 1965, the portion relating to irrigation (US$ 3.75
million) was cancelled. Consultants, Leedshill-DeLeuw (U.S.), were engaged
in 1968 to prepare a revised project in which a new concept of irrigation
was to be a primary feature. 'The works carried out under 40-PAK, and the
new features of the present project, are described in Chapter III of this
report.
1.02      Besides the first credit for Chandpur, the Association has financed
two completed irrigation and flood control projects in East Pakistan: Dacca-
Demra (11-PAK: 1961; US$ 1 million) and the Brahmaputra Embankment (39-PAK:
1963; US$ 5 million). The Bank Group's interest in water and agricultural
development led to formation, in September 1967, of the East Pakistan Agri-
cultural and Water Development Group within the Agriculture Projects Depart-
ment. Later, in January 1969, IDA and UNDP helped to finance general con-
sultants to assist the East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority
(EPWAPDA), a semi-autonomous body charged with the coordinated development
and utilization of the water and power resources of the province: the
Association provided US$ 2 million (136-PAK) to pay the foreign exchange
costs of the consultants. An engirieering credit (PAK S-8 - US$ 800,000) to
finance detailed engineering by consultants of the Dacca Southwest project
was signed in December 1969, and a further engineering credit, Karnafuli
and Muhuri, has been negotiated. A tubewell irrigacion project in the
northwest of the Province has been .-ppraised.
1.03      This report is based upon the Leedshill-DeLeuw feasibility study
of the revised project and the findings of an appraisal mission, Messrs.
D. G. Reese, H. T. Chang, H. P. Dugan and P. Eklund, who visited East
Pakistan in July 1969.
II. BACiGR uND
2.01      East Pakistan covers an area of 55,000 square miles and is pre-
dominantly agricultural. Ninety-five percent of the total population of
70 million is rural, and 56% of gross production comes from agriculture.
In contrast to the impressive growth in West Pakistan over the past few
years, however, agriculture in East Pakistan has lagged seriously. Between
1964/65 and 1968/69, production increased by less than 2% per annum. Be-
cause of the failure of agriculture to grow as fast as population, East
Pakistan has had to rely increasingly upon imports to meet its foodgrain
requirements, mainly rice. These imports, including supplies from West



- 2 -
Pakistan, have steadily risen from 580,000 tons in 1960 to 1,200,000 tons
in 1968/69. Rice and wheat imports, excluding trade with West Pakistan,
averaged US$ 33.5 million in foreign exchange annually between 1960/61 and
1967/68.
2.02      Population densities are among the world's highest, averaging
1,230 persons per sq mile, but ranging in some rural areas as high as
2,000 to 3,000 per sq mile. With population growing at around 3% annu-
ally, pressure on land is mounting, and it is projected that overall popu-
lation density will reach 2,000 per sq mile within the next 15 years.
2.03      Approximately 22 million ac, 64% of the total of the province area,
are cultivated. Holdings are small (3.4 ac on the average) and highly frag-
mented. Relatively little capital is employed and the yields per acre and
per worker are among the lowest in the world. Much of production is for
subsistence. Rice is overwhelmingly the most important crop, accounting
for as much as 82% of the total output of major crops. Jute is the most
important cash crop and largely determines the value of exports.
2.04      The climate is one of extremes, heavy rainfall and floods fol-
lowed by 4 to 5 months of relative dryness.  Of the 85 inch total average
rainfall each year, about 58 inches fall during the rainy season that
normally lasts from June to October.
2.05      Most of East Pakistan is an extensive, very flat, flood plain
stretching from the Himalayas to the Bay of Bengal. The bulk of this
plain is less than 30 feet above sea level and comprises a vast network
of rivers and channels. The Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Meghna Rivers meet
here to form the largest delta in the world. Each year during the rains.
thousands of sq miles of the delta are flooded.
2.06      While damage from floods is frequently heavy and makes crop pro-
duction hazardous, their regular occurrence has been largely incorporated
into the normal pattern of East Pakistan life. Farmers depend upon the
natural flood for their traditional agriculture and bear the losses from
it as part of this pattern. During the dry winter season rainfall is gen-
erally inadequate for raising crops. Irrigation has been extremely limited
because there was no suitable means for lifting water from streams and low-
lying areas, the area irrigated by traditional methods in the winter season
is estimated at about 1.1 million ac or about 5% of the cultivated area.
2.07      The Government of East Pakistan has embarked upon a major effort
to stimulate agricultural growth, attain self-sufficiency in foodgrain
production and substantially expand the output of jute, tea, sugarcane,
and other crops. Major emphasis has been placed on greater use of improved
seed (such as IRRI rice), fertilizer, and plant protection measures. The
success of the program depends in the longer term on controlling floods and,
more immediately on extending irrigation so that the benefits of modern inputs
can be realized and the area cropped during the dry season can be increased.
2.08      Large-scale gravity irrigation employing sizeable canals has met
with only limited success, although expenditures on such efforts have been



- 3 -
greater than for other types of irrigation such as tubewells and small
pumps. Gravity projects create serious difficulties because their large
land requirements add to already high pressures on available land.
2.09      The Thana Irrigation Program (TIP), in which the East Pakistan
Agricultural Development Corporation (EPADC) and the provincial Department
of Basic Democracies and Local Government assist each thana,l/ have en-
couraged irrigation. In some areas, irrigation is provided from tubewells
but the main emphasis is on pumping from natural drainage channels with
portable pumps. Some "fractional" tuits (with an output of less than 1
cusec) have been purchased privately by farmers but under the TIP about 20
farmers are organized into an irrigation group and provided with a pump
with a capacity of 2 cusecs or more. About 10,700 of these pumps, serving
515,000 ac, were in use in 1968/69: by comparison, the area irrigated by
tubewells was little more than 58,000 ac.
III. REVIEW OF THIE HISTORY OF CHANDPUR PROJECT,
CREDIT 40-PAK
3.01      The Chandpur Project, on the east bank of the Meghna River (see
map), was conceived as a part of a larger scheme, the Tipperah-Chittagong
multipurpose development. When IDA appraised it in 1961, the appraisal
report 2/ noted "...It will serve as a pilot project for planning of the
larger, multipurpose development scheme..."
3.02      The original project description included two separate polders,
totalling about 135,000 ac, north and south of the Dakatia River, sur-
rounded by 94 miles of embankment high enough to give protection against
the 100-year flood. About 125 miles of drainage channels in and around
the polders were to be improved and dual-purpose pumping stations installed
to provide drainage during the monsoon and irrigation in the dry season.
The irrigation system was of conventional gravity design and the unlined
canals were to be raised above ground level in most places. Only the main
and lateral canals were to be built by the executing agency, EPWAPDA: the
120 miles of distributaries for delivering water to the village channels
were to be provided by the farmers. The estimated cost of the project
works, including contingencies of 10%, was about US$ 15 million, including
US$ 2 million for land acquisition. The project included provision for
1/   The thana is a basic unit of government in East Pakistan.  The prov-
ince is divided into 4 divisions with a total of 18 districts, each
of which consists of an average of 23 thanas. Thanas are further
subdivided into unions.
2/   TO-328c - Chandpur Flood Protection Drainage and Irrigation Project
Pakistan. Credit 40-PAK, based on this report, was not signed until
July 1963 because of delays in enactment of irrigation legislation.



- 4 -
the cost of consultants and a consortium, Haigh-Zinn and Associates (UK)
and Associated Consulting Engineers Ltd. (Pakistan), were appointed in
September 1963.
3.03      Many changes were made in the project design between 1963 and
1967; costs also escalated so that by June 19617 it was estimated that the
cost of works as originally planned would be about US$ 42 million, includ-
ing some US$ 4 million for land acquisition. IDA agreed, in 1964, that
the south polder should be increased from 77,300 ac to about 137,000 ac
and that work on the north polder (58,000 ac) should be postponed. In
the following year, 1965, the project description was revised to eliminate
not only the north polder but also all irrigation works in the south polder:
US$ 3.75 million of the credit was cancelled, leaving a total of US$ 5.25
million. In December 1968, EPWAPDA employed Leedshill-DeLeuw (USA) as
consultants to review the many proposals and reports; to redesign the proj-
ect; and to prepare a feasibility study. The cost of consultants has been
met from the credit account.
3.04      The salient features of the original and revised project des-
criptions in Credit 40-PAK are compared with those of the present project
in Annex 1.
3.05      Many of the changes made when the project description was re-
vised in 1965 were the result of detailed engineering studies carried out
by consultants and of the usual problems of constructing major earthworks
in a monsoonal climate. The cancellation of the irrigation works, how-
ever, was the most significant change since it reduced project benefits
to the point that the economic justification was questionable. Even more
serious, however, was the problem of acquiring; land for the canals. The
original design required over 6,200 ac for project works in the two polders.
Of this total, about 3,500 ac, or the equivalent of perhaps 1,750 family
farms, were needed for main and lateral canals alone:l/ an additional area
would have been needed for distributaries and village canals. Further, be-
cause the system was designed for gravity flows, the canals would have been
sited on the highest - and thus most valuable - land. Farmers, with no
hope of purchasing new land in the over-populated delta and few opportunities
for alternative employment, were extremely reluctant to sell even a small
part of their land, especially since they received only a down payment of
half of the value as appraised by a government official. It should be
noted that acquisition of the land needed for embankments generally pre-
sented fewer problems since most of the sites were at lower elevations and
relatively less valuable.
Evolution of a New Irrigation Design
3.06      As a result of the difficulties at Chandpur and elsewhere, East
Pakistan government agencies; their consultants; and technical assistance
1/   The main canals were large structures with a 14-ft roadway on one
bank.



- 5 -
groups, including the Bank's Project Departments, have given priority to
studies of irrigation designs that will not only be acceptable where the
pressure on land is intense but will also optimize the benefits from im-
proved varieties, fertilizers and other inputs. As a result of these
studies, the following design concept has evolved:
(a) earthen embankments, of conventional design, will
protect project areas from flooding from rivers;
(b) gravity-flow drainage sluices will be provided where ap-
propriate but dual-purpose pumps will also be installed
to remove excess rain water during the monsoon and pro-
vide irrigation water during the dry season;
(c) within the embankments, the water level will be gradually
reduced, over a period of at least three years, so that
farmers may learn to modify their traditional methods and
come to appreciate the advantages of improved varieties
that cannot grow in deep water;
(d) during the dry season water in the natural drainage chan-
nels will be maintained at above a sufficient level, by
pumping if necessary, so that simple, inexpensive portable
pumps may be used to lift irrigation water onto the fields;
and
(e) the natural drainage channels will be improved to provide
better flows for drainage and irrigation and to facilitate
navigation. Since small boats are the traditional and
most economical form of transport, navigation locks will
be provided at appropriate points.
3.07      This concept, which was evolved by the Bank's East Pakistan Agri-
cultural and Water Development Group, has been adopted by the provincial
authorities and incorporated in the present project.
Existing Works in the Project Area
3.08      A total of Rs 51.0 million (US$ 10.7 million equivalent) exclusive
of interest, had been spent through June 1969. Over 31 miles of embankment
have been completed and 43 permanent and 19 temporary buildings erected.
About 1,440 ac of the 2,600 ac needed for embankments, building sites and
other purposes have been acquired.
3.09      Under its normal procedures, EPWAPDA procures materials, espe-
cially imported items, and issues them to contractors; some essential
materials, purchased under Credit 40-PAK, have not been used and are in
stock. Further, construction equipment purchased from the credit is still
available, although some has been temporarily transferred to other sites.
The estimated value of materials, equipment and buildings that will be suit-
able for use in the present project is about Rs 25.2 million (US$ 5.3 million
equivalent).



- 6 -
3.10      In June, 1969, EPWAPDA called for international bids for the civil
and electrical/mechanical works on the two main regulators. The Association
reviewed the tender documents and commented on bid evaluations. The two
civil works contracts were awarded in February, 1970 and the electrical/
mechanical contract will be awarded shortly.
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
General
4.01       The Chandpur project, covering about 140,000 ac, lies on the
east bank of the Meghna River about 45 miles southeast of Dacca, the capi-
tal of East Pakistan (see map). It includes parts of five thanas in two
districts; Chandpur and Faridganj in Comilla District; and Raipur, Ramganj
and Lakshmipur in Noakhali District. Chandpur town, an important commer-
cial and industrial center, and the local EPWAPDA base are just outside
the northwest corner of the project area.
4.02      The area is bounded on the west and north by the Meghna and
Dakatia Rivers and is bisected by the South Dakatia, a meandering distrib-
utary of the Dakatia. Low ridges encircle the flat land, forming saucer-
shaped basins of various sizes with elevations ranging between 5 and 15 ft
above sea level (SOPD 1/), but interlaced with numerous khals 2/ and chan-
nels. The many villages are built on ridges or mounds to escape the annual
flooding.
Soils and Climate
4.03      The surface soils are unconsolidated sediments deposited by
rivers and tidal action and are moderately fine to medium in texture.
They are capable of producing climatically adapted crops if proper surface
drainage is provided and they are properly managed.
4.04      The Chandpur area has a tropical climate with seasonally heavy
rainfall and high humidity. Mean temperatures vary from about 67°F in
January to 84°F in May, when daytime temperatures frequently reach 1050F.
The annual rainfall is between 78 in and 93 in, most of which falls from
June through September. There are three cropping seasons: 3/ dry,
December to March; early rainy, April to July, which receives more than one
half of the total annual rainfall; and late rainy, August to October, which
usually receives about 40% of total rainfall (Annex 2).
1/   SOPD - Survey of Pakistan Datum, which is approximately mean sea level.
2/   Khals - small drainage streams.
3/   These vary slightly from the climatic seasons:  warm season, March to
May; rainy season, June to September; and cool season, October to
February.



-7-
Population
4.05      The project area, with about 540,000 persons, is now one of the
most densely populated in East Pakistan; the population is projected to
reach about 900,000 in the next 15 years. Given present low incomes, high
pressures on land, and wide-spread unemployment and underemployment, it
is doubtful that the area could support such a large population under pres-
ent farming conditions.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
4.06      The cultivated land is fragmented into scattered, small plots.
Over 90% is farmed by the owners. The average holding is 2 ac per family:
the average size of the farma family is estimated to be 7 people. Just
under 40% of the holdings are 1.0 ac or smaller and cover about 11% of
the total farm area: many of the smallest holdings are rented out or else
provide only part-time occupation for their owners. Roughly another 40% are
between 1.0 ac and 2.5 ac occupying about 28% of the farm land. The remain-
ing area (61%) is in holdings I'arger than 2.5 ac. Further details are
given in Annex 3.
Agriculture and Cropping Patterns
4.07      In the rainy seasons, rice is grown on almost 90% of the land
cultivated and 4ute on most of the remainder. Farming methods have been
adapted over the centuries to the depth and duration of the flooding, which
varies with different land elevations. Nevertheless, surveys showed that
flooding reduced paddy yields by between 3.5 maunds and 11.0 maunds per ac
(in percentage terms, between 21% and 56%) during the period 1964-66. Be-
cause of the risks, farmers normally plant only local varieties and seldom
use chemical fertilizers. Some commercial fertilizers, which are distributed
by the East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation, are applied on
improved boro paddy (IRRI rice varieties grown in dry season), potatoes and
vegetables; for other crops only animal dung is used. The use of pesticides,
although they are supplied free of charge by the Department of Agriculture,
is extremely limited.
4.08      During the dry season, because of insufficient water, less than
half of the agricultural land is cultivated. Cropping is confined to areas
where the water table is high and to low lands where sufficient moisture
is retained in the soil after floods have receeded. The main crops in this
season are chillies, pulses, millet, fodder and vegetables. Details of
major cropping patterns and yields are given in Annex 4.
Supporting Agricultural Services
4.09      Agricultural extension, provided by the Agriculture Directorate
of the Department of Agriculture, is inadequate for modern needs. There
are currently 72 employees, including 10 concerned with plant protection,
and 52 field workers (union agricultural assistants) in the project and



surrounding area. The absence of water control and irrigation restricts
the possibilities for introducing new technique. Annex 5 provides details
of the agricultural development plans for Chandpur area.
4.10      The Cooperative Directorate of the Department of Agriculture is
responsible for developing cooperatives in the area. There are at present
6 Assistant Inspectors of Cooperative Societies working in and around the
area. In 1968/69, there were 259 registered societies with 28,550 members
in the 5 thanas that include the project area. They were mainly multi-
purpose societies at the union level, but also included several specialized
cooperatives such as weavers and fishermen.
4.11      The Thana Irrigation Program (TIP) operates in the project area
to develop irrigation, primarily for boro rice. In the 1968/69 dry season,
48 2-cusec pumps irrigated 2,680 ac, and there were unfilled requests for
an additional 17. Each pump commanded an average of 55 ac, but operated
only about one-third of the time, mainly because of a shortage of funds
among farmers to purchase fuel. There also were problems of inadequate
pump group supervision and a lack of coordination in pump supply and facil-
ities for repair. Annex 6 describes the Thana Irrigation Program.
4.12      Institutional rural credit is available through the cooperatives,
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan, and Taccavi 1/ loans directly
from the provincial government. The amount of credit available to farmers
is extremely limited: in 1968/69, for example, only 20% of cooperative
society members received loans and the total amount loaned was only Rs 1.4
million (US$ 315,000). Most farmers obtain their short-term credit from
family, friends, shopkeepers or money-lenders rather than from institutions.
Transportation
4.13      The most important means of transportation is by water.  The South
Dakatia River, navigable throughout the year, joins the Meghna River on
which there is good river communication to Dacca. The many channels and
khals in the area provide ready avenues for country boats and fishing craft. 2/
4.14      A surfaced road joins the town of Chandpur with Comilla (about 45
miles northeast of Chandpur and 55 miles southeast of Dacca). A railway
links Chandpur with Comilla where lines connect with the port of Chittagong
1/   Taccavi loans are advanced to cultivators by the Government mainly for
relief purposes.
2/   A survey in 1966 indicated that some 2,200 boats per day passed into or
out of the project area in addition to traffic solely within the project.
Most craft are around 30 ft long and carry up to 12 tons; some, however,
are over 40 ft long and carry more than 20 tons.



-9-
to the south and, over an extremely circuitous route, with Dacca. A sea-
sonally passable road runs through the project area from Chandpur to
Faridganj, Raipur and Lakshmipur.
Markets
4.15      Farmers generally sell their cash produce (mostly jute, chillies,
spices, coconuts, betelnuts, fruits, vegetables and some rice) at local
markets. Marketing agents then transport it, usually by boat) to larger
consuming centers such as Chandpur, Hajiganj, Faridganj, Raipur and
Ramganj. Chandpur has jute mills, flour mills and cold storage plants.
One major jute mill is located at Hajiganj. The area is a net importer
of foodgrains.
V. THE PROJECT
5.01       The project is the completion of flood control and other works
in a gross area of about 140,000 ac; provision of portable pumps for irri-
gating about 75,000 ac within the protected area, which, through multiple
cropping, would increase the cropping intensity from 165% at present to
240% 1/; and strengthening the agricultural support program to provide exten-
sion services and farm inputs. While the main benefit would be increased
agricultural production, project works would also provide flood protection
for homesteads and villages and assured supplies of water for domestic pur-
poses. Although the embankments would block some waterways, navigation
generally would benefit from improvements to drainage channels and control
of water levels.
5.02      Water levels in the project area would be brought under control
once construction is completed and then gradually reduced over the following
three years. In the past, the maximum nominal water level has been as high
as 15.6 ft SOPD.2/ In the future, it would be maintained at about 7 ft SOPD
during the dry season and at about 10 ft SOPD during the monsoon: only dur-
ing the 25-year rainstorm would the nominal level exceed 10.5 ft SOPD for
more than 4-5 days. However, the area comprises a series of individual
basins drained by natural khals: parts of a basin with a poor khal might
be temporarily inundated with rainwater even though the elevation of the
land was considerably above the nominal water level in the polder as a
whole. The future levels of 7-10 ft SOPD were selected after a study of
1/   See para 7.01 and table.
2/   This is the maximum flood level recorded in the Meghna River alongside
the project area and corresponds to a flood water depth of 5-10 ft in
the project area itself. The highest level ever recorded, during
cyclone-induced waves, was about 18 ft SOPD. The design stage for
the embankment was 17 ft SOPD (Annex 7).



- 10 -
both drainage and irrigation conditions. The main criteria were the cost
of pumping out of, and into, the polder and the cost of works necessary
to improve the flow in the South Dakatia River and in the khals leading
into the river.
Project Works
5.03      The proposed project works are described in Annex 7 and summar-
ized below:
(a)  construction of about 29 miles of peripheral embankments,
having a crest width of 14 ft at an elevation, depending
on exposure, of 20-22 ft SOPD, i.e., about 10-15 ft above
ground level;
(b)  installation of an inlet regulator and 1,200-cusec pumping
station at Char Baghadi and an outlet regulator at Hajimara
(both regulators would include navigation locks);
(c)  construction of 8 reinforced concrete sluice gates along
the project periphery;
(d)  dredging 20 miles of the South Dakatia River channel and
cutting off some of the stream's meanders to improve drain-
age flows; and
(e)  provision of an electric power supply, including about
2-1/2 miles of 33 kV transmission line, to Char Baghadi.
Interior irrigation works would:
(a)  supply 1,500 diesel-powered, 2-cusec pumps to be operated by
TIP irrigation groups, commanding approximately 75,000 ac;
and
(b)  provide maintenance facilities, excavation of khals and
channels, construction of control £structures, pump houses,
and the like necessary for utilizing the pumps.
Agricultural development works would:
(a) provide agricultural extension, irrigation, cooperative and
supporting personnel; and
(b) supply housing, offices, transport, office equipment, furn-
iture and materials for them.
The project also would include consultants for design and supervision of
construction and agricultural development.



- 11 -
Project Staff
5.04      The agricultural extension, irrigation, cooperative and supporting
personnel would include 1,500 pump drivers, more than 100 mechanics, 42 irri-
gation and assistant irrigation officers, 172 inspectors and assistant in-
spectors of cooperatives, and more than 100 agricultural field officers
needed for the execution of the project. Since there are no adequate
facilities in the field at present, the project also would provide limited
housing and offices for them. Because of their importance to the project
and the fact that they would represent a major increase over existing
personnel working in the project and surrounding area (paras. 4.09 and 4.10),
the cost of these items for the first five years are included as part of
the project costs. Some of the personnel would be shifted to other similar
projects after completion of this initial period of intensive development
(Annex 5).
Water Resources and Quality
5.05      The water estimated to be available in the project would be ade-
quate to meet foreseeable irrigation and domestic requirements. Of the
89,000 ac of agricultural land, 75,000 ac would be irrigated with low-lift
pumps and 14,000 ac (for topographic reasons) farmed without irrigation.
The peak monthly requirement (in April) for the 75,000 ac would be about
58,000 ac ft. It is probable in the future, however, that the area irri-
gated in the project will expand and shifts to greater boro rice cultivation
occur, thus adding to the April requirement. Hence the Char Baghadi regulator
has been designed with a nominal monthly pumping capacity of approximately
68,000ac ft per month (see Annex 7).  In the rainy seasons, there is gen-
erally a surplus of surface water. The small deficiency that might occur
in the driest years could be made up by pumping from the Meghna River or by
gravity flows through the sluices or regulators. During the dry season,
water can be pumped from the Meghna into the South Dakatia River, channels
and khals in the polder and thence on to the cultivated lands. Diversions
can be made at any time of the year. Despite transport of small amounts of
saline water up the Meghna by tidal action, there is no evidence of concen-
trations sufficient to interfere with irrigation and crop production. Details
of water requirements, resources and quality are given in Annex 8.
Status of Engineering
5.06      The consultants have completed the layout of the project and pre-
pared contract drawings, specifications and quantity estimates, and other
bidding documents for all major structures. Socio-economic and topographic
surveys were made in three sample areas (4,600 ac) in 1967 and work has be-
gun on detailed contour maps of the whole area, to a scale of 16 in:l mile,
to supplement the existing 4 in:l mile series.
5.07      Provision is made in the project for the employment of consultants
to prepare further designs and specifications, supervise construction and
assist in the agricultural development program. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that consultants acceptable to the Association would be
appointed under terms of reference and conditions approved by the Association.



- 12 -
Low-Lift Portable Pumps
5.08      In order to achieve standardization, while ensuring that pumps
will work on almost any site, the portable units normally supplied through
EPADC for the Thana Irrigation Programs are designed to achieve peak effi-
ciency (80%) at 30-40 ft static head. Even so, a number of different com-
binations of pump and engine are in use. On the present project, where
heads will not exceed 9-10 ft, the efficiency of these standard pumps would
be significantly reduced. Provision is made in the project for engineering
studies to determine the most suitable pump/engine combination; these in-
vestigations would be completed by May 1971 and the Association would ap-
prove the proposed specifications.
Construction Schedule
5.09      Construction of the main works is expected to be completed in
three years (see Annex 9). Rains and high water levels prevent work on the
embankments and other major earthworks during the summer months and there
is a shortage of unskilled labor during the harvest period, October through
December. The main construction season is therefore January through May.
Minor delays in commencement or slippage during this season have a dis-
proportionately large effect on the construction schedule and a whole year's
delay. It is therefore essential that the necessary land is acquired in
good time: l/ It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
that the land required for the 1970 construction program (or rights thereto)
had been acquired.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that fur-
ther land required for project works would be acquired, promptly as needed,
under terms which ensure that the owners receive full and prompt compensa-
tion.
5.10      There is less danger of interruption of work on the regulators
since the sites are already protected by ring bunds and fewer unskilled
laborers will be required. However, transport problems during the rains
and floods could seriously delay deliveries of equipment and materials to
the sites.  It is therefore important that the contracts for civil works
should be awarded so that the foundations can be finished by June 1970 and
the civil works completed by June 1971. It is equally important that the
electrical/mechanical contract should be awarded, partly because the civil
works contractor will require detailed drawings and partly because some
major components must arrive at the site no later than October 1971. In
order to avoid delays, retroactive financing is recommended for these con-
tracts (see para. 5.18).
5.11      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all equipment
and supplies financed under Credit 40-PAK would be returned to Chandpur and
made available promptly as needed.
1/   The total requirement for all purposes is about 2,640 ac, of which
about 1,440 ac have been acquired (para. 3.08).



- 13 -
Cost Estimates
5.12      The estimated cost of the project is US$ 22.7 million (Rs 108.3
million), of which US$ 5.1 million equivalent is for direct foreign costs.
Details of the estimates are given in Annex 11 and summarized below.
1/
COST ESTIMATES-
Rs million              US$ million        % Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Exchange
Major Works
Embankment & closures    5.8        -      5.8      1.2      -     1.2        0
Regulators, civil works 12.2        -     12.2      2.5      -     2.5        0
Regulators, elec.
& mech. equipment        0.5    7.5      8.0      0.1    1.6    1.7        94
Sluices                    1.0      -      1.0      0.2      -     0.2        0
Dredging S. Dakatia
River                    7.0     -       7.0      1.5      -     1.5        0
26.5    7.5    34.0       5.5    1.6    7.1        22
Land                       3.5      -       3.5     0.7            0.7        0
EPWAPDA staff &
services                 6.7      -      6.7      1.4      -     1.4        0
Consultants                2.9    5.6      8.5      0.6    1.2    1.8        66
Subtotal             39.6   13.1    52.7       8.2    2.8   11.0        25
Irrigation and
Agric. Services
Pumps & accessories        2.6    7.0      9.6      0.5    1.4    1.9        73
Maintenance facilities   2.7    0.9        3.6      0.6    0.2    0.8        25
Excavation of khals        1.5      -      1.5      0.3      -     0.3        0
Offices & houses          13.2      -     13.2      2.7      -      2.7       0
Equipment & materials    1.0        -      1.0      0.2      -     0.2        0
Staff                     12.9      -     12.9      2.7      -      2.7       0
Engineering studies        1.1    0.6      1.7      0.3    0.1    0.4        35
Subtotal            35.0    8.5    43.5        7.3    1.7    9.0        19
Contingencies              5.6    2.9      8.5      1.3    0.6    1.9        39
Total               80.2   24.5   104.7    16.8    5.1   21.9
Duties and Taxes           3.6      -       3.6     0.8      -     0.8        0
GRAND TOTAL          83.8   24.5   108.3    17.6    5.1   22.7          23
1/   All figures rounded.



- 14 -
5.13      Estimates for civil works are based upon bids received for the
regulators, recent EPWAPDA experience for other works and estimates prepared
by the Department of Agriculture for buildings and houses, with quantity
contingency allowances averaging about 8.0% (excluding land and overheads).
Estimates of the cost of consultants were based on recent offers under en-
gineering credits. The costs of portable 2-cusec pumps and of related equip-
ment and works were derived from EPADC's experience, with an allowance of
15% for escalation and quantity contingencies since, although the number of
pumps is known, their exact design and cost, and the quantity of excavation
needed to make adequate pump sites on the khals, is still uncertain. For-
eign exchange estimates were based upon current c.i.f. prices, with similar
allowances.
5.14      The proposed IDA credit of US$13 million equivalent would con-
tribute about 59% of the presently estimated costs of the project. The
Association's share of the total cost would be large enough to bring about
necessary improvements in organization, funding and execution of the proj-
ect. About 61% of the proposed credit would be used to finance local ex-
penditures.
5.15      The project would be financed as follows:
US$ million
equivalent
IDA Credit
Foreign costs                              5.1
Local expenditures                         7.9
13.0
Government of East Pakistan
Local expenditures                         8.9
Duties and taxes                           0.8
22.7
5.16      The credit would be made to the Government of the Republic of
Pakistan on normal IDA terms. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the proceeds would be re-lent to the Government of the Province of
East Pakistan on the same terms as those of the credit. A project agree-
ment would be signed with the Government of East Pakistan, which would pro-
vide all additional funds required to complete the project.
5.17      EPWAPDA would construct the major works and operate and maintain
them until such time as the Directorate of Irrigation is able to assume
operational responsibility (para 6.01). EPWAPDA has played a similar role
in previous IDA financed water development projects. In these projects
the Development Credit and Project Agreements have specified that EPWAPDA



- 15 -
would receive the proceeds of the credits either "on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association" or "at 4 per cent for 25 years". The latter
terms have applied in all cases. In this project, however, EPWAPDA would
obtain no revenues. Hence it would be unrealistic to provide EPWAPDA the
funds needed for the major works as a loan which would have to be repaid
from its regular budgetary allocations. The Department of Agriculture also
would receive no revenues directly from the project for its farm irrigation
and agricultural support program (para 6.18). Adequate budgetary alloca-
tions would be made therefore for major works and for the farm irrigation
and agricultural support programs.
5.18      The IDA credit would provide retroactive financing, up to a
maximum of US$ 700,000, of three contracts for the construction and elec-
trical/mechanical works on the regulators (see para 5.10). The Association
has reviewed bid documents and evaluation of tenders for these contracts,
which will be/were awarded after international competitive bidding.
Procurement
5.19      Contracts for construction of works would be awarded by EPWAPDA.
Those for regulators (US$ 4.8 million) have been awarded after international
competitive bidding; the Association reviewed bid documents and evaluations
and approved awards. Contracts for other works, offices and residences
(totalling about US$ 5.1 million) would be relatively small and of insuffi-
cient interest to foreign firms to attract international bidding. These
contracts would be awarded after local bidding. EPWAPDA would carry out
dredging of the South Dakatia River and other minor works on force account.
5.20      EPADC, which has experience of, and facilities for, handling large
batches of small pumps, would undertake the procurement of pumps and related
items (US$ 2.5 million) on behalf of the Department of Agriculture. Con-
tracts would be awarded after international competitive bidding; local
manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the prevailing custom
duty, whichever is lower. The Association would approve specifications (see
para 5.08) and awards.
5.21      Minor items of equipment, costing less than US$10,000 equivalent
will be purchased in accordance with Government's procurement rules, which
would be submitted to the Association for approval. Government would peri-
odically submit lists of items, with prices and supplies, purchased under
this procedure.
Disbursement
5.22      Disbursements for consultant services and for the foreign exchange
portions of contracts would be 100% of documented foreign exchange payments.
Disbursements for major imported items, such as pumping station equipment,
and for components for other works if invoiced separately, would be 100% of
c.i.f. costs: for locally manufactured pumps 100% of ex-factory price.
Disbursements for all other eligible costs would be made as an appropriate
percentage (presently estimated as 70%) of the monthly payments for work
actually performed, as certified by the consultants.



- 16 -
5.23      No disbursements would be made in respect of expenditures, total-
ling about US$ 5.7 million equivalent, for land acquisition, EPWAPDA esta-
blishment and overheads, or for staff and operational costs for agricultural
development. Taxes and duties (US$ 0.8 million) would not be reimbursable.
5.24      In the event that project works cost less than estimated, the per-
centage disbursement would be adjusted to ensure that the total amount of
the proposed credit was disbursed.
5.25      Estimated disbursements would be as follows:
1969/70 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 Total
----------------US$ million equivalent -----------
IDA Credit          1.6      4.2      6.8     0.4       -        -      13.0
Government of
East Pakistan       1.3      3.5      2.7     0.8      0.7      0.7      9.7
TOTAL               2.9      7.7      9.5      1.2     0.7      0.7    22.7
----------------------Rs million---------------------
13.9    36.9    45.2       5.8      3.2     3.3   108.3
Project Accounts and Audit
5.26      It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
that the Government of East Pakistan had opened twro special revolving ac-
counts, one for use by the Project Director (Construction) and the other
by the Project Director (Agriculture). Assurances have been obtained that
these accounts would be replenished as necessary, and at least every three
months, so that the remaining balances will be sufficient to meet expected
expenditure in the following three months. Assurances were also obtained
that the Project Directors would be given adequate powers to operate the
accounts.
5.27      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the revolving
accounts would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion and that copies of audit reports would be submitted to the Association
within 6 months of the end of the financial year.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      EPWAPDA would be the executing authority for the construction of
major project works and would maintain and operate them until such time as
the recently established Directorate of Irrigation, or other agency, could
assume responsibility for operation. The Agriculture and the Cooperative



- 17 -
Directorates, under the Department of Agriculture, would be responsible for
the on-farm irrigation and agricultural support programs, which would involve
also close liaison with EPADC and local authorities.
A. Coordination and Management
Project Coordination
6.02      The Central Review Committee and the Chandpur Project Area Com-
mittee, both of which were originally established to assist in project
formulation, have been reorganized to coordinate and direct the activities
of different agencies concerned with the construction and operation of the
project. The membership and terms of reference of these committees are
satisfactory to the Association.
6.03      The Central Review Committee will formulate and coordinate overall
policies regarding the progress of construction and development and the roles
and performance of the agencies concerned. Its members are the Additional
Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department; the Secretary, Agri-
culture Department; and the Chairman, EPWAPDA.
6.04      The Chandpur Project Area Committee will coordinate activities and
resolve problems at the field level. In particular, it will be the channel
for liaison between the project staff and district and other local authori-
ties. The committee includes the Deputy Commissioners of Comilla and Noakhali
Districts; the Sub-Divisional Officers of Chandpur and Noakhali; and senior
project officials.
Project Management
6.05      EPWAPDA, assisted by consultants, would be responsible for award-
ing contracts and supervising construction of embankments and regulators.
EPWAPDA would arrange construction of drainage sluices, river channel im-
provements and excavating khals at low-lift pump sites; these works would
be done by local contractors or by force account. EPWAPDA would establish
a division, with headquarters at Chandpur, under a superintending engineer,
the Project Director (Construction) - see Annex 12 Organization Chart I.
While responsible only to EPWAPDA, the Project Director (Construction) would
coordinate his activities with those of other agencies through the Chandpur
Project Area Committee.
6.06      The Secretary, Agriculture Department, has agreed to employ a
Project Director (Agriculture), who would be directly responsible for the
development of the low-lift pump irrigation and the agricultural develop-
ment program. The appointment of a qualified and experienced senior officer
to this post would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the personnel required
for agricultural extension; plant protection; installation, operation and



- 18 -
maintenance of pumps; and assistance to cooperatives would be assigned to
the project and placed under the control and supervision of the Project
Director (Agriculture).
6.07      After the completion of the maJor works, water levels would be
reduced and low-lift pumps installed during 1972 to 1975. It is essential
that, before and during this crucial period of the project's development,
farmers are forewarned of coming changes and advised on new cropping pat-
terns. After farmers have adopted these new patterns, they must be en-
couraged to replace local with high-yielding varieties and to use other
inputs; these inputs would be supplied on credit through cooperatives.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, before December 31, 1970,
Government would prepare an agricultural program, similar to Annex 5, ac-
ceptable to the Association and that thereafter, and not later than August 31,
1971, they would adopt a schedule for its implementation.
B. Operation and Maintenance
Operation and Maintenance of Major Works
6.08      A Directorate of Irrigation has been formed recently in the
Department of Works, Power and Irrigation to take over the operation and
maintenance of irrigation schemes. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the provincial government would consult with the Assocation
before the new Directorate or any other agency took over the Chandpur proj-
ect and that, in the meantime, EPWAPDA would operate and maintain the proj-
ect works.
6.09      The organization during the interim period is shown in Annex 12 -
Organization Chart II. An executive engineer would be in charge of two
sub-divisions, one at Char Baghadi and the other at Raipur or some other
convenient location. Four workshop-cum-storage facilities would be built
and equipped.
6.10      The annual cost of operation and maintenance of the major works
is estimated to be about Rs 1.3 million (US$ 0.3 million equivalent) or
about Rs 15 per acre (US$ 3). This recurring cost includes staff, electric
power for the regulator pumps, dredging, water hyacinth control, transport,
and energy. Details are given in Annex 13.
Operation and Maintenance of Low-Lift Pumps
6.11      Following procedures which have proven satisfactory in the Thana
Irrigation Program (TIP), Annex 6, primary cooperatives, or "pump groups,"
of 20-30 farmers would be formed at sites selected by the project agricul-
tural staff in consultation with EPWAPDA. The groups would be federated
into Thana Central Cooperative Associations and the project would provide
weekly training courses for elected managers, accountants and model farmers.



- 19 -
Project staff would assist groups to draw up seasonal and annual farm plans,
which would be the basis for estimates of pumping requirements and the need
for credit and inputs.
6.12      Deliveries of pumps to established groups would begin in October
1972. The project would install the pump and supply and pay a trained
"driver". A field workshop and store would be set up in each of the five
thanas and the project would maintain and repair all pumps. However, the
pump groups' elected management committees would control pumping and would
collect cash from members to purchase fuel.
6.13      The annual recurring cost to the project of the 1,500 pumps, in-
cluding pump drivers, maintenance and supervisory staff; spares; replacement
of pumps; and the maintenance of khals; is estimated at Rs 3.5 million
(US$ 0.75 million equivalent) per year, or Rs 2,330 for each pump. On the
basis of 50 acres per pump, this is equivalent to about Rs 47 (US$ 10) per
acre. 1/
6.14      The cost of fuel is also estimated at about Rs 3.5 million per
year. Since this will be paid directly by the pump group members, it is
shown as a production cost in farm budgets.
C. Agricultural Development and Credit
6.15      The annual recurring cost of the agricultural and cooperative staff,
including supplies, materials, and transport, is estimated at Rs 1.2 million
(US$ 0.3 million equivalent). 2/
6.16      In order to make effective use of the improved conditions provided
by the project, and to achieve the levels of output anticipated, farmers
would need to use improved seed and vastly increase their use of fertilizers
and pesticides. EPADC is responsible for distributing seeds and fertilizers
promptly as needed in the project area. At present EPADC uses its own dis-
tribution system but is considering using other channels, such as the Thana
Central Cooperative Associations and private dealers.
1/   The EPADC, on the basis of its experience in the TIP, estimates that
the annual cost for a 2-cusec pump irrigating 50 ac is about Rs 55 per
acre. This figure has been used in farm budgets (para. 7.09 et seq.)
2/   This figure is not included in the annual operation and maintenance
costs which are to be recovered from farmers in the project area
(para. 6.13) since it represents the cost of services regularly supplied
farmers throughout the province and financed from general revenues. It
is included, however, as part of the project's annual cost in computing
the rate of return to the economy (Annex 15).



- 20 -
6.17      The increased use of inputs would require a major increase in
farm credit. It is estimated that the demand will rise from the present
level of Rs 1.4 million (para 4.12) to as much as Rs 12 million by 1980.
The annual requirement for credit will be estimated in advance by the Pro-
ject Director (Agriculture) on the basis of farm plans prepared by pump
groups. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the government
will ensure that adequate resources for farm credit in the project will be
made available to the Thana Central Cooperative Associations and/or other
organizations.
D.  Recovery of Project Costs
6.18      Under existing TIP procedures, the costs of operation (including
driver), maintenance and replacement of portable pumps are to be fully re-
covered from the members of pump groups by a "rental charge" collected by
the Thana Associations.  The appropriate rental charge for project pumps
cannot be determined until the results of the studies described in para
5.08 are available in May 1971. However, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that rental charges would be collected on a graduated scale
rising to a level sufficient to ensure recovery by the tenth year of the
full annual operation, maintenance and replacement costs.
6.19      The costs of operation and maintenance of major flood control
and irrigation works are estimated at about Rs 15 (US$ 3.00) per acre per
year. Government intends to recover these costs in this and similar proj-
ects and has agreed to study the most suitable means of collection, ap-
propriate levels for charges and timing. It has agreed that, within 18
months of signing the proposed credit, the Government of East Pakistan and
the Association would consult on the measures to be taken to recover opera-
tion and maintenance costs. A similar study would be made of the feasi-
bility of charging tolls on boats and/or cargoes at navigation locks; im-
plementation would be discussed with the Association before June 1973.
6.20      Local authorities in the project area would be able to raise addi-
tional revenue from non-agricultural beneficiaries, notably property-owners
benefitting from flood protection, and boat owners.
6.21      Although farm families now live close to subsistence, farm in-
comes would rise markedly as the project reached full development (para
7.09 et seq). Farmers may be able to repay at least a portion of the capi-
tal cost. The question of farmers' capacity to repay capital costs requires
further study by government and technical assistance groups. However, as-
surances were obtained that the government, after ten years of operation
following completion of the major works, would begin recovery of as much
of the capital cost as practicable. See Annex 16 for further details.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Production
7.01      The provision of flood protection and irrigation would allow an
expansion of the present cropped area and an increase in production as



- 21 -
damage is reduced and the use of higher-yielding varieties and complemen-
tary inputs introduced. The initial increases would become possible with
the control of water levels when embankments and regulators are constructed
and low-lift pumps are installed. This development, mainly a shifting from
broadcast to transplanted paddy, is scheduled over a 3-year period after
construction is completed. Subsequently, over the next 7 to 10 years, there
should be a steady increase as local paddy varieties are replaced by higher-
yielding ones, more inputs are used, and cultural and irrigation practices
are improved. There also would be a substantial increase in the production
of high-value crops, such as vegetables, wheat and potatoes. The table
below summarizes the increases expected after full development, i.e., ten
years after completion of major works. Further details are given in Annex 4.
Cropped Area        Av. Yields            Production         %
('000 ac)         (lg tons/ac)       ('000 lg tons)   Increase
Without    With   Without    With    Without        With
Crop        Project  Project  Project  Project   Project   Project
Paddy          108.6    133.0    0.6        1.7        62.7      224.3      258
Jute            10.5       6.0    0.6       0.9         6.1        5.5      -10
Vegetables       7.9      19.0    1.8       3.7        14.0       69.9       399
Fodder           4.3      13.0    2.4       3.9        10.3       50.8      393
Chillies         8.8      10.0    0.3       0.4         2.4        4.4       83
Potatoes         2.6       8.0    2.8       5.2         7.3       41.3      466
Wheat             -       13.0     -        1.5          -        19.2        -
Other Crops    17.2       10.0    0.3       1.1         5.8       11.0       90
TOTAL          159.9    212.0
Total Area          2/        2
Cultivated   93.0-    89.0-/
Cropping          3
Intensity(%)170-'    240
1/   Yields are rounded.  Apparent discrepancies in production are due to
this rounding.
2/   Reduction in area cultivated at present (96,000 ac) due to land required
for additional homesteads, roads, farm ditches, etc. The further reduc-
tion with project is due to land required for embankment, regulators and
farm ditches.
3/   Difference between present cropping intensity of 165% (Annex 4) and with-
out proJect (170%) due to reduction in area cultivated.
Market Prospects
7.02      The increased production made possible with the project would be
for domestic consumption. Since projected demand for rice in the area ex-
ceeds production, there should be no difficulty in marketing the increased



- 22 -
output. Surpluses in vegetables, wheat, chillies and potatoes should also
be readily sold in nearby Chandpur town, in Comilla or in Dacca.
Prices
7.03      The average retail price of rice at the village level in East
Pakistan between 1959/60 and 1967/68 ranged from Rs 27 to Rs 43 per maund
for medium, and from Rs 24 to Rs 40 for coarse varieties. In April 1969,
the price was Rs 44 per maund for medium, and Rs 41 for coarse, rice. The
average farm-gate price for paddy in the project area in 1967/68 was Rs 22
per maund.
7.04      At the "official" exchange rate (Rs 4.76 - US$ 1.00) these local
prices were equivalent to US$ 137 to US$ 229 per long ton of coarse and
US$ 154 to US$ 246 per long ton of medium rice. They were far higher than
world rice prices, even though recent world prices have been at their high-
est since the 1950s. East Pakistan imported Burmese rice at US$ 106 to
US$ 134 per long ton FOB Rangoon in 1967/68. In 1966/67, rice was imported
from Thailand at US$ 136 to US$ 139 per long ton FOB Bangkok.
7.05      The "official" rate of exchange, however, does not adequately re-
flect the scarcity value of foreign exchange in Pakistan. Under the govern-
ment's bonus voucher system, which allows entitlements to "free" foreign
exchange to be bought and sold, the effective rate has been about twice the
"official" rate. At this rate (Rs 9.52 - US$ 1.00), project area prices
for rice and paddy in recent years have been slightly less than the cor-
responding world price.
7.06      World prices of rice are expected to decline over the next several
years to about US$ 102 per long ton FOB Rangoon. This is about US$ 112 per
long ton CIF Chandpur, equivalent to about Rs 12.75 per maund of paddy at
the official exchange rate or Rs 25 per maund at the bonus voucher exchange
rate. This price has been used in evaluating the project (para 8.03) but
the growers' 1967/68 average, Rs 22 per maund, has been used in calculating
farm income.
7.07      The production of other agricultural crops has been valued at
projected world prices (Annex 17, Table 1), converted into local prices at
the higher bonus voucher rate of exchange, or at expected local market
prices.  In the case of wheat, jute, and millet, these prices are slightly
higher than 1967/68 local prices. For vegetables, pulses, and fodder, the
projected price is lower than the 1967/68 price. For other commodities
the two prices are the same.
Value of Production
7.08      Based upon the acreages and yields shown earlier, the gross value
of production in the project at 1967/68 growers' prices would rise from Rs
60 million to about Rs 220 million at full development, 10 years after
completion of the major works (equivalent to about US$ 12 million to US$
46 million at the official rate of exchange).



- 23 -
Farmers' Income
7.09      The potential benefits of the project would provide considerable
incentive to farmers to participate in it. Increases in the value of their
output and incomes, however, would vary greatly with the sizes and elevations
of their holdings and the particular cropping patterns they followed. Ir-
rigated lands of higher elevations (10-12 ft SOPD) growing two crops of rice
would show an increase in per ac value of output from Rs 336 without the
project to Rs 1,553 with the project at full development. Irrigated land
of lower elevations (7-10 ft SOPD) would increase the value of rice produc-
tion per ac from RS 597 to RS 1,090. Most farmers have several parcels of
land at varying elevations, between these two ranges, and the value of their
production would fall between them.
7.10      On representative irrigated land lying between these two ranges
indicates that when two crops of rice are grown the value of production
after paying pump charges, fuel costs and land tax, would at full develop-
ment be more than three times the value of production without the project.
(see table below)
ANNUAL VALUE OF PRODUCTION
PER ACRE OF PADDY WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
(Rs per Cultivated Ac)
Without   With
Project  Project    Increase    % Increase
Gross production value 1/         648      2,013       1,365          211
Production costs 2/               217        496          279         129
Value of production before
costs of irrigation and
taxes                       430      1,517        1,087          253
Pump charges                  -         55           55
Fuel costs                    -         46           46
Land tax                       5          5
Value of production after costs
of irrigation and taxes    425       1,411          986          232
1/   At 1967/68 growers' prices, Rs 22 per maund, para 7.06.
2/   Excludes labor, which would be mainly family.  Costs of inputs include
depreciation on house, bullocks and equipment and veterinarian costs
for bullocks. They assume the removal of all subsidies with imported
items valued at Rs 9.52   US$ 1.00.



- 24 -
7.11      The increased incomes would enable farm families to improve
their present low living standards materially. According to a 1967 EPWAPDA
survey the total annual expenditure of an average family in the project
area was only Rs 1,335, including on-farm consumption valued at Rs 585.
Since income from crop production on an average size holding was insufficient
to support the family, the deficit was made up by sales of orchard and live-
stock products, manual labor, miscellaneous business and services. At full
development, the project would enable farm families to increase both on-farm
consumption and household expenditures from crop production in addition to
any other sources of income.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The major quantifiable benefit from the project would be sub-
stantial increases in agricultural output, with consequent savings in
foreign exchange, and in farm incomes and living standards in the area.
The project would enable farmers to expand both their yields and cropping
intensities by controlling floods in the rainy season and providing a
greater volume of water for irrigation in the dry season.
8.02      Annual farm production with the project at full development would
be almost 3 times that without the project. The project would allow the
additional output each year of 108,300 long tons of rice (161,600 tons of
paddy), and reduce the need for imports into the area by that amount. Such
a reduction would mean an annual saving of some US$ 11 million in foreign
exchange.
8.03      In evaluating the project, agricultural produce has been valued
at world prices (see paras. 7.06) and 7.07). The exchange rate of Rs 9.52 -
US$ 1.00 has been applied to both benefits and the foreign costs of invest-
ment, production and operation, maintenance and replacement. The value of
salvable equipment and stockpiled materials available from the earlier
credit (Rs 25 million, see para. 3.09) has been included in costs. The
useful life of the project has been taken as 50 years. Farm labor costs
also have been included.
8.04      On this basis, the rate of return to the economy for the present-
ly proposed project would be about 22% (Annex 14). If total previous ex-
penditures of Rs 51.0 million (para 3.08), representing both salvable items
and "sunk" costs, are added, the rate of return for the combined investment
would be approximately 15%.
8.05      A rice price 10% lower than the one used would reduce the rate
of return to around 19%. The rate of return is not particularly sensitive
to changes in the prices of other commodities. It is sensitive, however,
to changes in costs and the timing of investments and benefits. Thus, if
construction of major facilities were delayed so that 5, rather than 3,
years were required, the rate would be 18%. Increasing the time required
to install the 1,500 low-lift pumps (and delaying the realization of
benefits from them) from 3 to 6 years would mean a decline to 16%.



- 25 -
8.06      These return calculations are based solely on benefits from in-
creased agricultural production and do not include benefits from improved
navigation, land transportation in the form of a roadway atop the embank-
ment, general flood protection, and better quality and more dependable
domestic water supplies.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
of the Republic of Pakistan and/or the Province of East Pakistan on the
following principal points:
(a) Government would onlend the proceeds, on IDA terms, to the
Province which, in turn, would make adequate, regular payments
to revolving accounts operated by the two Project Directors
(paras 5.15, 5.16 and 5.25);
(b) consultants would be engaged to prepare design, supervise
construction and assist the agricultural program (para 5.07).
An outline of this program would be submitted to IDA by
December 1970 to be followed by August 1971, by a detailed
schedule for its implementation (para 6.07);
(c) the operation, maintenance and replacement costs of low-lift
pumps would be collected on a graduated scale of rentals which
would ensure full recovery by the tenth year (para 6.18); and
(d) studies would be made and appropriate plans prepared for the
collection of other project costs (para 6.19).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be:
(a) that a Project Director (Agriculture) had been appointed
(para 6.06);
(b) the revolving accounts had been established (para. 5.25);
and
(c) land required for construction in 1970 had been acquired
(para 5.09).
9.03      With these assurances, the proposed project constitutes a suit-
able basis for an IDA credit of US$ 13 million equivalent on standard
terms.
March, 1970






ANNEX 1
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
PRESENT STATUS OF PROJECT WORKS
A. COIIARISON OF PROJECT DESIGNS
1963                1965            1969
Project            Revised Pro-
Description,          ject Descrip-   Present
40-PAK             tion, 40-PAK    Proj.eet
Area
North polder,                  acres     58,0oo                  None           None
South polder,                  acres     77,320               137,270        140,000
135,320              137,270        140,000
Of which, irrigable,               acres    109000                      0         75,000
Land required for works,           acres      6.200                 2.240          2,640
Flood Protection
Design flood,                  years        100                   100            100
Embankment,                    miles         94                    66             60
Drainage
Channel improvement,           miles        125                    NA             20
Pump capacity,                 cusec      3,300                    NA          1,200
Gravity sluices                nos            1                    12              8
Navigation locks,              nos         None               _None                2
Irrigation
Dry season irrigation,         acres    109,000                  None         C o,000
Main & lateral canals,         miles        190    )              200 l         None
Distributaries,                miles        120    )                           None
Canal lining,            % of total        None                   20% 1/        None
Portable pumps,                  nos       None                  None          1,500
Pump capacity,            cusec each                                               2
Estimated Cost
Works,                        $$mill         13                    15             14
Land                          $ mill          2                     2              1
Agric. program,               $ mill          0                     0              6
Other,                       $mill            3                     8              2
Total                         $ mill         18                 ... 2_            23
1J  Eliminated from Bank financing in 1967.
2/ Dbies not include US $10.7 million expenditure through June 1969.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
B.  WORKS COPIJETED TO JUNE 1969
1.   Construction
The following works had been completed:
(a) Thirty-one and one-half miles of peripheral embankment
(out of a total of 60);
(b) Forty-three permanent buildings, offices, quarters, shops
and godowns built; and
(c) Nineteen temporary quarters and sheds completed or nearly
completed.
In addition, 2.5 miles of irrigation canal have been completed but
will not be required for the revised project.
2.   Land Acquisition
(a) About l,440 ac of land acquired; and
(b) Funds placed for an additional 289 ac not yet in possession.
3.   Surveys and Exploration
The following had been completed:
(a) Topographic surveys of three sample areas, totaling h,606 ac,
completed;
(b) Survey of ring bunds around regulator sites, completed;
(c) Level surveys of over 200 miles of khals, 11 miles of embank-
ment, and 10 miles of river shoreline, completed;
(d) Seventy miles of levels to establish and check benchmarks,
completed;
(e) Dewatering tests and soil borings at the two regulator sites,
completed; and
(f)  Complete topographic survey for preparing contour maps of 16in
tothe mile, work underway.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
C.  MATERIALS STOCKPILED AT JUNE 30. 1969
The main items in stock, and the total required for the present
project, were as follows:
Unit           In Stock           Total Required
Sheet Piling             000 sq ft          60                     51
Reinforcing Steel         cwt           18,175                 31,972
Sand                     000 cu ft        284                     387
Gravel                   000 cu ft        410                     656
Bricks                   000's         15,133                   4,ooo



ANNEX 1
Page 4
D. EQUI=ENT PURCHASED TO JUNE 1969
Number    Number      Number       Total
Item             Purchased  On Hand  Transferred   Cost Rs
Motor Grader              8         6  1       2        6,13,342.80
Dragline 3/4 cu. yd.   '3           3         Nil       4,88,225.24
Dragline 1/2 cu. yd.    2          Nil         2        6,15,305.56
Roller (Vib)              2         2         Nil         51,268.66
Crawler Tractor 50 HP   4          Nil         4        2,73,119.16
Crawler Tractor
75-100 HP             2          1          1        2,39,246.10
Front End Loader          2        Nil         2        1,06,223.25
Farm Tractor              4         4         Nil         36,426.87
Winch Truck               1         1         Nil         46,540.39
Truck Tractor             1        Nil         1        1,00,678.80
Dump Truck                4         4         Nil       1,09,072.46
Water Truck               6         5          1        2,53,284.00
Low Boy Trailer           1        Nil         1          53,052.17
Scraper 7 c.y.            2        Nil         2        3,07,722.00
Flatbed Truck             3         3         Nil         95,913.90
Diesel Engine 11 H.P.  20          20         Nil         40,104.00
Centrifugal Pump         26                               71,125.60
Bar Shear               12                                 5,081.93
Bar Bender              12                                 1,393.44
Water Pumping Set       10                                73,645.00
Salinity Meter           1                                 1,016.88
Materials Lab Equiip.    2 sets                            3,466.09
Launch                    1                               52,723.20
VHF Radio Telephone       6                               14,771.52
Automatic Water Level
Recorder              3                                 3,866.82
Diesel Generator 75 KW  1)          1         Nil)      2,83,586.00
Diesel Generator 25 KW 10)          1          9 )
Generator 5 KW          10         10         Nil         74,784.00
Current Meter             3
Well Point Pump          16         2         14        7,36,622.40
Jetting Pump              4         2          2          31,841.00
Well Points            800                                28,119.80
December 8, 1969



ANNEX 2
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
SOILS, TOPOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE
Topography
1.        The entire Chandpur project area is within the delta that has been
formed by deposition of sediments carried by the Meghna, Ganges, and Brahmaputra
River systems.
2.        The predominate features within the project area are the existing
and old channels of the South Dakatia River, the numerous khals and smaller
channels that dissect the area into tributary basins, the village mounds with
their orchards and adjacent tanks and the innumerable small paddy plots.
3.        There is only minor topographic relief area with elevations ranging
between about five and fifteen feet above sea level.  The available topographic maps
indicate that the area-elevation range is as follows:
Elevation, ft          Area, ac            % of Total Area
Below 6               5,80o                   4.1
6 to 7                 1,000                  0.7
7 to 8                1,500                   1.1
8 to 9                6,10oo                  4.4
9 to 10              21,200                  15.1
10 to 11             38,hoo                  27.4
11 to 12             39,700                  28.3
12 to 13             18,300                  13.1
Above 13               8,ooo                  5.8
1h40000                100.0
4.          The project lands are interlaced with many khals that provide
drainage to the Meghna, Dakatia, or South Dakatia Rivers, and these khals
and rivers form the major transportation network within the project area.
In many cases these khals connect with one another. The older lands generally
have a much denser network of khals than the newer lands.
5.          A reconnaissance survey of the more important khals in the project
area was made during the early part of 1969. Over 218 miles of these channels
were surveyed. The elevation of the bottom of the khals ranged from
below 1.0 to above 7.0.   The results of the survey are set forth in the
following tabulation.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Bottom Elevation, ft.       Miles        % of Total
Below 1.0               25.0            11.4
1.0 to 2.0              22.3           10.2
2.0 to 3.0              27.2           12.4
3.0 to 4.0              33.0            15.2
4.0 to 5.0              36.2           16.6
5.0 to 6.0              31.0           14.2
6.o to 7.0              20.8             9.5
Above 7.0               22.9            10.5
218.4          100.0
Soils
6.          The Chandpur project area was covered in 1965/66 by reconnaissance
soil survey conducted by the EP Directorate of Soil Survey and UNDP/FA0
Soil Survey Project. The area was studied again in 1967 when semi-detailed
soil and agricultural survey was carried out by the Soil and Agricultural
Survey Division, Directorate of Land and Water Use, EPWAPDA. Ten soil
series have been delineated as a result of the latter effort. The entire
project area is underlain by unconsolidated sediments, resulting either
from river overflow or tidal action. Soils are primarily medium textured
(silt loam) although somewhat heavier soils (silt clay 'oam) are found in
the low land pockets in the northwestern portion of the polder and in other
scattered areas. Top soils are mostly medium to slightly acidic, while sub-
soils range from neutral to moderately alkaline in reaction. Soils in the
southwestern portion of the polder and in a few other areas are slightly
affected by salt, but the degree of salinity 1/ has no serious effect on
rice grown now nor will it adversely affect that grown in the future.
7.          The soil of the entire project area has a high silt content
throughout the profile, down to as much as the surveyed 4 ft depth. While
the silty soils are friable and offer no problem for animal plowing, they have
poor drainage characteristics.   When such soils are compacted by repeated
bullock plowing and puddling under the transplanted aman, they form a plow pan
at the plow depth, i.e. at about 4 in.   Heavy rain or heavy irrigation during
the dry season then causes water logging above the pan and damage to the rabi
crops.
8.          The scils are able to sustain good rice crops when hazards of
flood and drought are removed, and can support a moderate yield of upland rabi
crops when shallow but frequent irrigation,preferably by furrows, is provided.
1/   Electric conductivity of saturation extract of surface soil of salt-
affected land ranges from 1.2 to 1.6 millimhos per cm at 250 C; that
of subsoils is below 1.0.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Such conditions require land leveling, which is done by the farmers themselves
on their small plots, as well as a network of field channels to convey water
to individual plots for the apland rabi crops.
Climate
9.        The project area has a warm tropical climate with seasonably
heavy rainfall and high humidity.   There are three distinct seasons:
a)   The warm season from March through May, when the
highest temperatures of the year occur. The mean
daily temperatures are in the mid-eighties with the
daytime mean being in the low nineties. About 15%
of the annual rainfall occurs during this season, usually
in the form of violent, short-duration thunderstorms.
The lowest humidity of the year, 60-70%, occurs during
March and April.
b)   The rainy season from June through September is
characterized by heavy rainfall, with 75% of the annual
total occurring. Storms often consist of moderate but
steady rains of several days duration. Mean temperatures
are in the low eighties and humidity averages about 85%.
Skies are normally overcast.
c)   The cool season is from October through February.  Rain-
fall is infrequent in this season, and temperatures in the
low eighties or high seventies during the day and in the
fifties at night are common. Skies are generally clear.
10.       Temperature and rainfall data for towns close to the project area
are set forth in the following table.



MAXIMUM, AVERAGE AND MINIMUM MONTHLY PRECIPITATION IN INCHES
AS RECORDED AT CHANDPUR, RAMGANJ, AND LAKSHMIPUR
DURING THE PERIOD 1902-1968 A!
90% _/
Chandpur                 Ramganj                  Lakshmipur            Dry Month
Monthly    Max.    Avg.    Min.    Max.    Avg.    Min.    Max.    Avg.    Min.    Rainfall
January    2.50    0.32    0.00    1.80    0.19    0.00    4.07    0.31    0.00              0.00
February   3.34    0.76    0.00    4.78    0.67    0.00    5.61    0.92    0.00             0.00
March     10.48    2.46    0.00    8.68    2.00    0.00    7.28    1.87    0.00              0.00
April     20.67    5.53    0.00   14.84    4.65    0.00   19.20    4.92    0.00              0.80
May       21.64    8.56    1.42   21.62    9.02    0.61   26.40    9.50    0.15             2.80
June      40.53   14.96    5.25   33.04   16.38    5.05   35.06   18.28    4.02             7.60
July      23.81   14.54    5.56   29.45   17.24    1.44   29.34   17.99    6.30             8.00
August    40.89   13.88    5.50   48.10   17.68    4.45   45.96   18.07    7.33              9.50
September 23.70   10.55    4.32   42.85   12.32    1.65   40.08   13.29    4.30             4.70
October   19.64    5.56    0.18   16.80    6.34    0.00   17.91    6.71    0.25             1.60
November   5.76    0.93    0.00    6.27    0.94    0.00    7.15    0.88    0.00             0.00
December   3.75    0.30    0.00    3.88    0.29    0.00    6.50    0.29    0.00             0.00
Annual             78.15                     87.72                     93.03
/  Complete records not available for the following years:
Chandpur    1911, 1932, 1945 through 1950, 1953 through 1962 and 1965
Ramganj      1911, 1912, 1932, 1944, 1946, 1947, 1949 through 1961, 1965, and 1966
Lakshmipur  1911, 1912, 1932, 1945 through 1961 and 1966.
Source: EPWAPDA Directorate of Hydrology
2/  Average of 90% dry month figures computed for the stations at Chandpur, Ramganj and
Lakshmipur.
December 8, 1969



ANNEX -3
ES  PAKISTAN
CHAKflFU  II.IRRIGTIOtI PROJWCT
FARM SIZE AND ACREAGE DISTRIBUTION
Farm Size            Percentage         Percentage
In Acres             Of Farms          Of Acreage
Under -  0.50            21.20               3.07
0.51 - 1.00             18.90               7.64
1.01 - 2.50             38.70              28.h9
2.51 -  5.00            15.80              29.71
5.01 - 7.50              3.10              12.28
7.51 - 12.50             1.30               7.27
12.51 - 25.00             0.70               6.68
Over - 25.00             0.30               4.86
December 8, 1969






ANNEX 4
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
LAND USE, CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Land Use
1.        The gross area of the project is about 140,000, of which about
68.5 is presently available for cropping.  The project embankment will
require about 2,500 ac, mostly low-lying land with little agricultural
potential, and a further l,500 ac will be required for pump sites and
distributions. X further 3,000 ac will be required for villages and homesteads
to house the increasing population. By the time full development is reached,
ten years after completion of major works, the land available for cropping
will be reduced to 89,000 ac, or 63.5% of the gross area (see Table 1).
2.       Trhis reduction in available farm land, however, will be more than
offset by the increased cropping intensity made possible by irrigation in the
dry season. At present, the cropping intensity is about 166%, and about
160,000 ac of crops are grown each year. At full development, the intensity
is expected to be almost 240%, corresponding to 212,000 ac per year.
Cropping Pattern
3.        Many different cropping patterns are found in the project area,
not only because relatively minor differences in elevation can cause major
differences in the water regime but also because the flood level is un-
predictable and farmers use diverse cropping patterns as a form of insurance
against total crop failure.
14.       Rice is by far the most important crop and is grown in all three
growing seasons (Annex 2 para. 9).  Many different varieties are used, the
main groups being:
Auus   -   short season varieties grown in the early kharif
(first part of the rainy season), sown in March/April
and harvested in June/July.
Aman  -   long season varieties sown in March/April and
harvested in November/December. Some are floating
rices capable of surviving in a great depth of water.
Boro  -   varieties, often Aus types, grown in the rabi (dry season)
under irrigation.
Both Aus and Aman varieties may be grown from broadcast seed (B.Aus or B.Aman)
or transplanted (T.Aus or T.Aman), the latter giving higher yields.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        The most common cropping pattern in the project area is B.Aus
and B. Aman followed, where possible,by a rabi crop (vegetables, pulses, etc.)
T. Aman is grown only on the higher land, as also is the main export crop, jute.
Table 2 shows the main cropping patterns found in the project area.
6.        The two main changes which would be encouraged bythe project
are substitution of transplanted for broadcast rice and a major increase in
rabi crops. Typical cropping patterns at full development are shown in
Table 3.
Yields and Production
7.        Present and projected yields and production are shown in Table 4.
December 8, 1969



ANNEX 4
fable 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
LAND USE BEFORE PROJECT AND AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Before            At Full
Project         Development
Land Use                                            ac                ac
Homestead, tanks, roads, etc.                    38,000             38,000
South Dakatia River Channels, Khals, etc.         4,000              4,000
Farm ditches, drains, etc.                        2,000               2,000
New farm ditches to be constructed                     -              1,500
Project embankment                                     -             2,500
Future expansion of villages                           -             3,000
Gross area available for farm crops              96,000             89,000
Area under irrigation                          3,000             75,000
Area non-irrigated                            93,000             14,000
Total land area                                  140,000            140,000



ANNEX 4
Table 2
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUH II IRRIGATION PROJECT
1/
PRESENT CROPPING PATTERN BY IAND ELEVATION-
Adjusted to
Total of
Early Kharif                    Late Kharif            Rabi                   6.ooo ac
(ac)
Above 11' elevation                                                            33,300
(1) - - - - Sugarcane -    -    -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    100
(2)  B.Aus                     T.Aman                  Rabi (50% area)         12,000
(3)  B.Aus                     T.Aman                                           6,200
(4)  Jute                      T.Aman                                           2,000
(5)                            T. Aman                 Rabi                     3,000
(6)  B.Aus                                            Rabi                      2,000
(7)  Jute                                             Rabi                      8,000
9.5' - 111 elevation                                                           4500
(8)  Mixed B.Aus and B. Aman                          Rabi (66% area)          25,000
(9)  Mixed B.Aus and B.Aman                                                    20,400
(10)  Jute                                                                         500
Below 9.5' elevation                                                            16.8oo
(11)  B.Aman - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Rabi (50% area)              15,800
(12) B.Aman - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -700
(13)                                                    Boro                       300
Grand Total                                                                     96,ooo
1/ Adapted from a survey made in 1967 by EPWAPDA. The classification by elevations
is approximate.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROPPING PATTERNS AT FULL DEVELOPMENT BY LAND ELEVATION
Total
Early Kharif                 Late Kharif        Rabi                   Acreage      (ac)
Above 10  elevation*                                                              60,000
(1)  Sugarcane or Pasture - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    1,000
(2)  Vegetable/Fodder        T.Aman             Potato &                8,000
Groundnut
(3)  T.Aus                   T.Aman            Vegetables               5,000
(4)  T.Aus                   T.Aman            Mexi-pak wheat           8,000
(5)                          T.Aman             Boro                   21,000
(6)  T.Aus                   Vegetables/        Chillies               10,000
maize fodder
(1,000 ac)
(7)  B.Aus                   T.Aman             Rabi fodder             7,000
(4,000 ac)
9? - 10' elevation*                                                                15,000
(8)  T.Aus                                     Vegetables               5,0O0
(9)  Jute                                       Oil seeds               3,000*
(10)  T.Aus                                      Mexi-pak wheat          2,000
(11)  T.Aus                                      Oil seeds               2,000
(12)  Jute                                       Mexi-pak wheat          3,000
Below 9r elevation*                                                                 14,000
(13)  B.Aman  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    Boro                     10,000
(14)  B.Aman  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    Pulse or fallow           4,000
Grand Total                                                                         89,000
* Approximated.
>-> Non-irrigated.  All other crop area will be pump irrigated.
December 8, 1969



ANNEX 4
Table 4
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
PRESENT AND FUTURE CROPPING PATTERNS.YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Present                        Full Development
Area     Yield   Production        Area   Yield   Production
1000 Ac Md_//Ac  '000 LE Ton       IQ00  Ac Md/Ac  1000 Lg Ton
Paddy
Eharif
B. Aus                      20.2     13.7         10.1          7.0    20.0         5.2
T. Aus
T. Aus, IRRI                                                   32.0    50.0        58.9
B. Aman                     16.5     11.1         6.7          14.0    25.0        12.9
Mixed B. Aus/Aman           45.7     18.6         31.3
T. Aman                     23.2     12.3         10.5
T. Aman, IRRI                                                  49.0    50.0        90.2
Rabi
Boro                         0.4     20.0         0.3
Boro, IRRI                   2.6     40.0         .3.8         31.0    50.0
Sub-Total              108.6                  62.7         133.0               224.3
Other Short Season Crops
Kharif
Jute                        10.5     15.7         o.1           6.o    25.0         5.5
Kharif Vegetables                                               9.0   100.0        33.1
Kharif Fodder                                                   9.0   100.0        33.1
Rabi
Chillies                     8.8      7.4          2,4         10.0    12.0         4.4
Oil Seeds                    1.8      4.7         0.3           5.0    10.0         1.8
Pulse Grain                  6.5      4.2         1.0           4.0     6.o         0.9
Millet                       8.8     10.0          3.2
Wheat                                                          13.0   4O.0         19.2
Potatoes                     2.6    '76.o                       8.0   140.0        41.3
Rabi Vegetables              7.9     36.o 10$> 6               10.0   100.0        36.8
Rabi Fodder                  4,3     65.0         10.3          4.o   120.0        17.7
Sub-Total               51.2                                88.0
Year Round Crops
Pasture                                                           0.8   120.0         3.5
Sugarcane                      0.1    330.0         0.9           0.2   650.0         4.8
Sub-Total                0.1                    _            1,0
Total                                        0o8.6                             426.4
Total Cropped Area
Kharif                       116.1                              126.o
Rabi                          43.7                               85.0
Year Round Crops               0.1                                1.0
GRAND TOTAL            159.9                               212.0
Total Cultivated Land Area       96.o                               89.0
Cropping Intensity (%)          166.6                              238.2
1/ 1 maund = 82.3 lb = 0.037 lg tons: 1 lg ton   27.2 raau-uds.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Strategy
1.        The first important step to be taken in extension work in the
Chandpur project area, as well as in future projects of a similar nature,
would be to forewarn farmers of the change in water conditions on their
farms and prepare them to adopt new cropping patterns suitable to the new
situation. By so doing, farmers would be able to convert smoothly to the
new cropping patterns, crop failures resulting from sudden removal or re-
duction of the flood can be avoided, and farmers would be appreciative and
therefore more willing to contribute toward the repayment of the project
cost.
2.        The second step would be to apply the Comilla-type rural coopera-
tive and farmers' training scheme in the project area. i
3.        The third step would be to have pump groups and cooperative soci-
eties prepare annual planting and input/credit requirement plans. The sup-
ply of inputs and credit would be channeled through the cooperatives.
Phasing of Agricultural and Cooperative Work
4.        Agricultural extension work would be conducted in the following
three phases:
(1) Surveying and planning;
(2) Guiding farmers in adoption of new cropping patterns in
response to the change of project water level;
(3) Intensifying demonstration, training and extension work to
bring the project to full development.
5.        The project cooperative work would also be conducted in three
corresponding phases:
(1) Surveying and planning,
(2) Organizing the pump groups into Primary Cooperative Societies
and federating them into Thana Central Cooperatives, and
(3) Supervising the operations of the cooperatives and training
of member farmers according to the Comilla pattern.
1/ This scheme, developed in the Pakistan Academy for Rural Development at
Comilla, consists essentially of organizing a central cooperative association
in each thana as a federation of village primary cooperative societies. Under
this two-tiered arrangement the thana organization provides its primary soci-
eties with credit, machinery, extension, marketing and processing, management,
and other supporting services.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
6.        For both the extension and cooperative work, Phase (1) would be
carried out during the 3-year construction period; Phase (2) during the
next 3-year period, during which the summer flood level would be lowered
in steps from 13 ft to 10 ft ASL; and Phase (3) on a continuing basis as
needed.
Additional Staff Requirements
7.        Additional extension and cooperative officers wTould be required
to carry out Phases (1) and (2). Essentially, one additional Thana Agri-
cultural Officer (TAO) and Thana Cooperative Officer (TCO) will be employed
by each Thana and one Union Agricultural Assistant (UAA) and one Union Co-
operative Assistant (UCA) for each Union.
Training Staff and Technical Backstopping
8.        A panel comprising part-time specialists from the Department of
Agriculture, Land and Water Use Directorate of WAPDA, Pakistan Academy for
Rural Development (PARD), ADC and project consultants would establish the
work methods and procedure for each task to be done by the field staff.
The panel also would train this staff and backstop it throughout project
development.
Phase 1 - Surveying and Planniing
Detailed Farm Household Socio-Economic Survey
9.        This survey which amounts to an agricultural census, would be
conducted by the additional cooperative officers to be employed. It would
provide detailed information necessary for the organization of the pump
groups and the cooperatives and serve as a benchmark for assessing the
farmers' financial status periodically as the project development progresses.
Field Survey of Existing Cropping Patterns
10.       This survey would be conducted by the additional UAA'  and TAds of
the project.  The existing cropping patterns on land of different elevations
would be surveyed and identified, using the local land revenue (Mouza) maps
initially and relating these later to the new contour maps.
Tabulate Area Under Different Kharif Crops at Various Land Elevations
11.       These tabulatiorns would enable extension workers to plan field
work to be carried out during Phase 2.
Establish Criteria for Recommending New Cropping Patterns
12.       Criteria for new cropping patterns would be established by the
specialist panel mentioned in paragraph 8 and presented as a manual that
extension workers could follow.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Determine Definite Time Schedule for Water Level Withdrawal
13.       When the above work was accomplished, extension workers would be
able to determine how much land would be affected by the withdrawal of water
to any specified elevation. A schedule for water withdrawal would then be
drawn up, based upon the assessment of how much land could be handled during
one dry season. This schedule would be implemented by the Engineering, Opera-
tion and Maintenance Section accordingly.  It is tentatively estimated that
the period of withdrawal would take 3 years, from 1973 to 1975.
Phase 2 - Guiding Farmers in Adoption of New
Village Visits to Provide Guidance
14.       When the survey work had been completed, the time schedule for
water withdrawal decided upon and  6he field mar,ualJ made available, extension
officers would begin to make village-to-village visits Farmers would be ad-
vised of the project water levels and the reconatieuded new cropping patterns
that would be adaptable to the new wat-er depth.  They also would be told of
the need for supplementary irrigation during certain months.
Organization of PuMp Groups and Coosperative Societies
15.       The EPADC irrigation eng`r.,ers would hel, to organize farmers into
pump groups and assist in determix.ing the coimwand area and the proper layout
of field channels.  They also would supervise p-wnp installation and ensure
that pump drivers were trained a.d supplied to each pump group.
16.       The cooperative officers would help to further organize the pump
groups into primary cooperative soc:lteties, federate the latter into Thana
central cooperatives; and see that a manager, accountant and model farmer
was selected by each primary coopei&a&-_Ive.
17.       Phase 2 work would be repeated each year for land of successively
lower elevations until the surmner water level was finally withdrawn to 10 ft
MSL.
Phase 3 - intensifying Deion   U.Aor, Traini'ng and Extension lWork
Adoption of I-ugh Yieldilg Varie eC
18.       A primary purprose of t.e e:.;t.ensicr worekrs during this final phase
would be to guide farmers -in grauJ.y ie;-lacig tae Lozal aus, aman and boro
varieties with corresponding IRRI or other high yielding varieties.  Another
objective would be to encourage farmer.s to use more inputs and to refine their
cultural and irrigation practices fr all crops.
Weekly Training Courses and Viiag~ it  ings
19.       Each Thana Central Cooperative Association would organize and sponsor
weekly courses for training the managers, accountarnts and model farmers elected



ANNEX 5
Page 14
by the primary societies, to be held at the Thana Training Center. The
Thana agricultural and cooperative officers would serve as trainers, and,
in turn, be backstopped by the specialists' panel. The model farmers' farms
would serve as village demonstration farms. Special short training courses
would be organized by ADC for pump operators and mechanics.
20.       Member farmers of the primary societies would attend weekly village
meetings, where the manager, accountant and model farmer would discuss what
he had learned at the Thana Training Center during the week. Farming problems
also would be brought up and other business of the society conducted.
Formulation of Farm Plans
21.       Seasonal and annual farm plans would be prepared by each pump group,
listing members' names, the area of crops to be grown, improved methods to be
used, inputs and credit needed. The manager would learn how to make the plan
at the Thana Training Center in order to teach members at the village weekly
meetings. Supervisory help would be given by the union agricultural assistants
and cooperative officers. These pump group plans would be compiled into plans
of the primary societies and Thana Central Associations. The completed plans
would be channeled to the project director in order to prepare requisitions
to the Government agencies concerned.
Supply of Inputs
22.       Seeds and fertilizers would be supplied by the EPADC and pesticides
by the Agriculture Directorate to the project through the cooperatives at the
thana level according to the farm plans. Thana Central Cooperative Associa-
tions would be responsible for making distributions to primary societies, pump
groups and finally individual farmers.
Supply of Credit
23.       Credit application would also be appraised according to requirements
indicated in the farm plans. Credit would be supplied to farmers through the
cooperatives. Repayment of loans will be collected by the manager of the primary
society who would make lump sum payment in the name of the society to the Thana
Central Association or designated bank.
Shares and Savings
24.       At the weekly village meetings, member farmers would be encouraged
to buy shares from and deposit savings with the cooperative. Collections from
the members would be recorded, and the manager would take the collection to the
Thana Central Association for deposit in the name of the primary society.
December 8,1969



ANNEX 6
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
THANA IRRIGATION PROGRAM
1.        The Thana Irrigation Program, developed by the Pakistan Academy
for Rural Development, is now being operated by the Basic Democracies and
Local Government Department of the Government of East Pakistan.
2.        The "Manual on Thana Irrigation Programme" states the program's
objective as follows:
"The long range objective of the irrigation programme of East
Pakistan is to provide irrigation to every farm plot in the
province where this can be supplied at an economic cost.  Where
possible water will be supplied through small projects involving
only earthwork or earthwork combined with small control structures.
Thereafter, use will be made of small pumps singly or for double
pumping. Where surface water is not available, underground water
will be tapped by tubewells, or larger projects will be constructed
by EFWAPDA to bring water zo the area.
"The strategy is to utilize the easiest and least costly sources
of water first to get the quickest possible return on investment
through increased production. The more complex and expensive
projects will come later, after the economy has improved through
the first increase in production."
3.        Under the program, farmers will be organized into self-managed
groups for operation, maintenance, and financial matters related to divert-
ing and distributing irrigation water to unIts of about 50 to 100 ac. The
program also provides a framework for coordination of the activities of the
many governmental agencies.
Program Responsibilities
4.        Responsibilities of the many organizations involved are as follows:
(a)  Union Council Members and Members of Ward and Local
Agricultural Committees
(1) Organize the irrigation groups;
(2) Provide a Union Council Member to serve as
exofficio chairman of the irrigation group; and
(3) Map the Ward and Union for irrigation potential.
(b) Irrigation Group
(1) Organize the distribution of irrigation water;



ANN\EX 6
Page 2
(2) Excavate field channels; and
(3) Collect charges from the individual farmers and
pay in bulk to the Thana Council.
(c) Thana Council
(1) Give technical and mechanical support;
(2) Construct housing, workshops and office space
for the Thana Training and Development Center;
(3) Organize the distribution of services and supplies;
(4) Collect charges from the pump groups and
make deposit in the Thana Irrigation Fund;
(5) Pay in bulk for services of the East Pakistan
Agricultural Development Corporation and East Pakistan
Water and Power Development Authority; and
(6) Map the irrigation potential of the Thana.
(d) East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation
(1) Provide a Thana Irrigation Officer to act as
Executive of the Council for irrigation;
(2) Give technical and managerial training to managing
committees, managers and drivers;
(3) Provide low-lift pumps;
(h) Provide tubewells where a large number is not
required in a concentrated area;
(5) Provide mechanics and maintenance supplies;
(6) Provide or arrange for supplies of fuel, fertilizer
and pesticides; and
(7)  Accept payment in bulk from Thana Irrigation
Fund for low-lift pump and tubewell operation.
(e) East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority
(1) Examine the Thana Irrigation Maps and give suggestions
for improvement;
(2) Give technical assistance in design and
construction of water control structures;
(3) Provide water, where appropriate, through
large-scale irrigation systems or concen-
trated groups of tubewells;



ANMEX 6
Page 3
(4) Provide electric power for tubewells and
low-lift pumps, where appropriate;
(5) Operate highly technical facilities such as
power houses, large regulators and big pumps;
and
(6) Accept payment in bulk for services from Thana
Irrigation Ftnd.
(f) Agricultural Directorate
(1) Provide technical training at the Thana
Training and Development Center and Union
on irrigation, seed and plant protection;
(2) Provide technical assistance in organizing
irrigation groups;
(3)  Provide field supervision and assistance
through the Union Agriculture Assistants,
(4) Provide pesticides to the irrigation groups; and
(5) Furnish means to control insects and plant diseases
where beyond capabilities of irrigation groups.
(g)  Pakistan Academ-yr for hural Development
(1) Assist in the preparation of training materials;
(2) Conduct courses in training methods and as arranged
by departments and agencies; and
(3) Train drillers for the East Pakistan Agricultural
Development Corporation (with the Deep Tubewell
Research Center).
(h) District Approving Authority
(1) Ensure that procedures have been correctly followed; and
(2)  Settle problems between Thanas, particularly on water
shares.
Thana Irrigation Program Pump Groups in Chandpur Project Area
5.        There are 48 pump groups within the Chandpur Irrigation Project
area that were approved for operation under the Thana Irrigation Program
during the 1968-1969 season. An additional 17 pump groups have requested
approval.
December 8, 1969






ANNEX 7
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT WORKS
1.        Works under the proposed project would include construction of
29 miles of embankments, a pumping plant and navigation lock near Char
Baghadi, an outlet regulator and navigation lock near Hajimara and several
local drainage sluices; channel improvements would also be made along the
South Dakatia River and in tributary khals.
Embankments
2.        The embankment remaining to be constructed comprises, for the
most part, two continuous sections, totaling about 29 miles, along the north-
west and southeast quadrants of the project enclosure. Of the approximately
60 miles required to enclose the project area, 31.5 have already been com-
pleted.
Crest Elevation
3.        The design flood stage for the project would be 17 feet,
Survey of Pakistan (SOP) datum. A 5-foot freeboard for protection against
wave action would be added in those areas exposed to broad expanses of water
along the Meghna River; in the more protected locations, a 3-foot freeboard
would be adequate. Selected crest elevations are, therefore, +22 and +20
feet, SOP datum, according to exposure.
4.        Standard embankment construction methods in East Pakistan are
such that substantial shrinkage or settlement must be expected. Twenty
percent of the fill height has been found appropriate for similar soil
conditions elsewhere in the Province.
5.        Crest Width.  The width of the embankment crest would be 14 feet,
wide enough for vehicular traffic.
6.        Side Slopes.  Embankment side slopes would remain stable under
wetting and drying conditi-As and would present sufficient cross-section
to prevent seepage from appearing on and flowing down the country-side em-
bankment slope. Slopes of 3 to 1 would be used for the river side and 2 to 1
for the country side.
7.        Turfing.  The surface and slopes of the embankment would be pro-
tected with durba or similar grasses.
8.        Borrow Pit Canal.  The borrow pit used for construction near the
Char Baghadi regulator would be utilized as an irrigation canal, running
from the regulator west to the Bolia Khal and east to the Sakdi Khal, which
would serve approximately 1,600 ac.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
9.        Closures.  Only a few water crossings would be required during
embankment construction due to the low water levels in the construction
season.
Char Baghadi Regulator
10.       Main features of the Char Baghadi Regulator would be two naviga-
tion locks, a pumphouse containing six pumps and a bridge connecting the
embankments on either side of the structure.
11.       Navigation Locks.  The limited boat traffic data indicate that
two locks would operate at a high capacity factor on a 15-minute cycle time.
Locks would be 110 feet long and 20 feet wide.
12.       The lock gates would be vertical lift, roller gates, fabricated
from structural steel shapes and plate. They would operate under differen-
tial water levels in either direction because, relative to the outside water
levels, the project water level would generally be lower in the summer and
higher in the winter. The gates would also withstand full outside water
levels in the event the lock must be dewatered for any reason.
13.       The gates would be raised and lowered with an electric hoist and
counterweight arrangement, mounted on a rigid gate frame. Water would pass
into or out of the lock underneath a partially raised gate. The gate would
be lifted clear after the water levels equalized.
14.       Minor gate maintenance could be performed with the gates in place
by installing stop logs in the slots provided. The gate frames are designed
so that gates could be removed for major maintenance or replacement.
15.       Pumping Plant.  The pumps and pumphouse would deliver the maximum
monthly water requirement of 61,200 acre-feet (Annex 8). Six pumps would be
used, having a combined nominal capacity of about 1,135 cusecs, or approxi-
mately 68,000 acre-feet per month. The design-point capacity of each would
be 200 cusecs when pumping to the South Dakatia River. Because of the greater
head, the end pumps would deliver only about 165 cfs to the Sakdi system and
170 cfs to Balia system. The end pumps and, consequently, the plant would
be slightly oversized to make all pumps and motors the same. This uniformity
will aid in maintenance as well as provide an increased allowance for opera-
tional outages and other problems.
16.       The end pumps would serve the proposed Balia and Sakdi canal cystems
but would also be able to pump directly into the South Dakatia along with the
central four pumps. Provision would be made for the pumps next to the end
pumps to serve the Balia and Sakdi canals when the end pumps are out of service.
The primary duty of all pumps would be irrigation and the design points are
determined for this. However, all pumps could pump water out of the project
area under flood conditions to supplement gravity drainage facilities. Pump
flows and design heads are summarized as follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Normal Flow                   1/
Number of   of Each Punp      Static Heads Ft.
Pump Serving                Pumps         Cusecs      Normal       Maximum
Borrow Pit to Sakdi          1            165         11.5          15.0
Borrow Pit to Balia          1            170         10.5          14.0
So. Dakatia River            4            200           4.5          8.0
17.       The pumps would be low-rotating speed (high specific speed),
axial-flow, propeller type, vertically mounted, and either directly
coupled to a vertical electric motor or connected through a speed reduction
gear box to a higher speed motor, whichever would be the more economical
arrangement.
18.       The pumphouse would require no large piping or valves, which are
high-cost, foreign exchange items. The selection of pumping for drainage
or for irrigation would be controlled by opening and closing appropriate
gates.
19.       The inlet sump gates would be simple, fabricated slide gates that
would always have the pressure load from the outside. Fabricated flap gates
would be used for the discharge bay. A wedge frame device would hold the
flap gates closed when the water was being discharged from the other side
of the bay.
20.       The plant is designed for manual attended operation.  Motors would
be protected against low voltage, overloading and overheating. Interlock and
alarm devices would protect personnel and machinery.
21.       A hand-operated, 20-ton capacity, bridge crane would be provided
for installation and removal of equipment. The crane rails would extend over
one navigation lock so that it could be used to unload equipment brought in
by barge. This capacity would be adequate for the heaviest lift required.
Gate hoist motors, small dewatering pumps and other auxiliary and maintenance
equipment would be provided as necessary for normal operation and maintenance.
22.       The pumphouse would be a reinforced concrete structure with a flat
roof, sloped slightly for drainage. The building would be a repeating series
of frames for the six pump bays, with a seventh bay for lay-down and work space.
23.       A reinforced concrete bridge would connect the embankments on either
side of the regulator. The bridge is designed for the 20-ton truck loading,
which is standard for bridges and roads in the Province. Minimum clearance
under the bridge at high water would be 12.75 feet.
24.       While the Chandpur area is presently served by a 33-kv transmission
line from Comilla, work is underway to replace it with a new 132-kv line,
terminating on the north side of the Dakatia River in Chandpur. An 11-kv line
now crosses the river to serve jute mills on the south bank and the crossing
towers have spare conductor positions that can be used.
1/ Total pumping heads are higher than the figures shown due to various
losses at trash racks, gate openings, etc.



ANNEX 7
Page h
25.       A new transmission line would be installed from the crossing to a
substation at Char Baghadi, a distance of about 2-1/2 miles. The capacity
of the substation would be 3,750 kva, which is sufficient to serve the Char
Baghadi load, plus an allowance for the additional local power demand that
is expected to develop under project conditions. The substation would also
serve the high voltage pump motor circuit and lower voltage small motor and
lighting circuits.
26.       Substation construction and equipment would be included in the
initial development contracts. The transmission line would be constructed
by the EPWAPDA Power Wing, using conductors salvaged from the Comilla-to-
Chandpur ee-kv line that is to be replaced. If the poles and pole accessories
from this line are available, they also would be utilized. Because their
availability is doubtful, the cost estimates are based upon new poles and
accessories.
Hajimara Regulator
27.       Main features of the Hajimara Regulator would be a navigation lock,
four vertical regulator gates and a bridge connecting the two sides of the
structure.
28.       Navigation Lock. The single navigation lock would be 20 feet wide
by 80 feet long.
29.       Regulator Gates.  Four 30-foot wide by 15-foot high regulator gates
would be provided. They would be of fabricated structural steel equipped with
rollers and hand-operated hoists. The gates would usually be raised or lowered
under a small differential head; however, they would operate under a differen-
tial head of 11.5 feet.
30.       Bridge.  The road bridge would be of the same design as the Char
Baghadi bridge and would support the standard 20-ton truck loading.
31.       Hydraulic Design.  The high flows through the regulator would be
flood discharges during the summer months. To minimize erosion below the
structure, energy dissipating blocks would be provided on the river side of
the gates. The size, location and arrangement of the blocks would disperse
a submerged jet or stabilize a hydraulic jump, either of which might occur,
depending on the flow and Meghna River stage conditions. Channel protection
would be provided beyond the concrete base slab by brickwork blocks. The
total length of protected channel is designed to protect the structure during
severe flow and Meghna River stage conditions.
Drainage Sluices
32.       Drainage sluices would be reinforced concrete box structures.  The
sluice inverts would be set at an elevation of 3 feet, SOP datum; this is the
lowest level that can normally be attained without construction difficulty or
extensive use of dewatering equipment. Vent openings would be 5 feet wide by
6 feet high. This size opening would be satisfactory and 5-foot by 6-foot flap
gates are available as a standard item in East Pakistan. Stoplogs would be
used to maintain the project water level during the irrigation season. Baffle
blocks will be placed on the river side apron for energy dissipation.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Channel Improvements
33.        Meander cut-off and channel dredging in the lower reaches would
provide a bottom width of 150 feet at an elevation of -10 feet, SOP datum.
Channel side slopes of 3 horizontal to 1 vertical have been assumed.
Low Lift Pumps
34.        A total of 1,500 2-cusec pumps would be required for a net irrigated
area of 75,000 acres under the full low-lift pump irrigation scheme.
35.        Existing khals would be deepened and new khals would be excavated
where adequate pump supply channels are not available.
36.        The low-lift pump system requires a pump and engine combination to
deliver 2-cusecs at a total head of 30 to 40 feet with a pump efficiency of
80 percent. The maximum total head for small pumps in the project area would
be on the order of 9 to 10 feet of static head.
37.        Research, now being conducted, would determine the most suitable
pumps and motors for conditions in the project area. It may be possible to
reduce the motor size by as much as one-half by changing the impeller size of
an existing pump. Such a reduction in motor size would reduce the cost of the
pump units and require less fuel for operation.
December 8, 1969






ANNEX 8
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
WATER RESOURCES, REQUIREMENTS AND QUALITY
Water Resources
1.        Rainfall during the rainy season (June through September) usually
provides an abundance of surface water in the project area. Even in the
driest years there is only a slight deficiency in water supplies during this
period.  Rainfall in the rest of the year, however, is too small to allow
cropping on more than about half of the agricultural land.
2.        The project lies in the Meghna River flood plain downstream from
its confluence with two of the world's largest river systems, the Ganges-Pacda
and the Brahmaputra-Jamuna. There is an adequate quantity of water for the
project available throughout the year in the Meghna River, but it must be
pumped and conveyed to the project lands in order to be utilized.
3.        The Ganges-Padma drainage area is 350,000 square miles, including
much of the Himalayas' south face. The Brahmaputra-Jamuna rises on the north
side of the Himalayas and drains much of the interior of the range and a por-
tion of the south face: it has a drainage area above the project of about
207,000 square miles. The tributaries of the Meghna River rise in the hills
of Assam in one of the highest rainfall areas of the world.
4.        The monthly and annual discharge of these three rivers at gauging
points upstream from the Chandpur Project are shown in the table below. The
EPUiAPDA estimates the minimum annual flow of the meghna River at Chandpur at
about 200,000 cusecs during recent years.
Future upstream developments involving diversions may reduce these
river flows but cannot be forecast with any accuracy, especially since the
headiiaters and major portions of the riverst drainage basins are not under
Pakistan's control. It is estimated that with full irrigation development
in East Pakistan the minimum flow in the Meghna at ChanApur would be reduced
to about 153,000 cusecs. 1/ Given the magnitude of the river flow in com-
parison to the project's water requirements, however, it seems reasonable
to expect no shortage of surface water, even with substantial irrigation
development outside Pakistan.
6.        There is little data on the availability of groundwater within the
project area. Its presence is indicated by a number of small-diameter tubewells
throughout the project area that are used to provide domestic water supplies.
Village tanks and ponds vary in depth from 10 feet to 30 feet and it is reported
that the deeper tanks contain water throughout the year, suggesting that they
extend below groundwater tables at all times. Analysis of water samples from
wells indicates that it is suitable for irrigation. In the future where it proves
economical groundwater might be developed for domestic and supplemental needs.
1/  International Engineering Company, "EPWAPDA Master Plan", December 1964.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
MONTHLY AND ANNUAL DISCGERE
OF GANGES-PA1)4A, BRAMflAPUTRA-JAMUNA AND ME1;GA RIVERS
Ganges-Padma R.          Brahmaputra-
at                Jamuna R. at          Meghna River at
Hardinge Bridge         Bahadurabad             Bhairab Bazar
Month               (1934-62)             (1956-62)               (1957-62)
-------------------'000 cusecs------------------------
Mean       Min.         Mean    Min.           Mean       Min.
January         110.0        81.0         184      154          20.8       18.2
February         96.7        67.1         153     120           17.3       13.0
March            82.9        57.0         165      133          22.3       18.1
April            71.6        44.5         252      182          31.7       25.9
May              7h.9        49.4         629      282          67.6       48.7
June            154.0       82.9        1,138     936          11_8.0    119.0
July            639.0       380.0       1,418   1,185          257.0      201.0
August        1,393.0       834.0       1,554   1,085          274.0      236.0
September     1,29N.0      884.0        1,2L8     853          273.0     227.0
October         626.0       295.0         759     197          236.0     186.0
November        254.0       155.0         374      300          98.4       63.1
December        118.0      101.0          235     200           31.9      28.1
Annual          412.0       276.0         678      635         124.0      106.0
Salinity
7.        Saline water is transported up the Meghna River by tidal flows, with
the up-river incursion of salinity occurring during the late fall, winter and
spring when the river flows are low.  The suner flood flows, in turn, repel the
saline water to the Bay of Bengal. The quantity of data relating to salinity
in the Meghna River is very limited. However, a thorough study of the subject
was conducted for EPWAPDA as part of the studies for the Coastal Embankment
Project and is set forth in a December 1968 report by Leedshill-DeLeuw entitled
"Office Report on Salinity Study in Coastal Embankment Project Area."  More
limited salinity studies have been conducted by the previous Chandpur Irriga-
tion Project consultant and by IECO when it provided general engineering con-
sulting services to EPWAPDA.
8.        These studies were reviewed as related to the Chandpur Irrigation
Project and it was concluded that there is no evidence of salinity concentra-
tions that would interfere with the project purposes of irrigation. The study
for the Coastal Enbankment Project indicated that during 1966 and 1967 the
maximum concentration of total dissolved solids in the Meghna River near the
southern boundary of the Chandpur Irrigation Project was about 300 to 350
parts per million.   This quality of water is suitable for irrigation of all
climatically adaptable crops.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Water Requirements
9.        The estimated monthly irrigation requirements of the project at
full development are shown below. The consumptive use of each crop was
computed for each month of the growing season using the modified Blaney-
Criddle formula.  "Crops growth stage coefficients" were based on curves
prepared by the EYWAPDA Land and Water Use Directorate in accordance with
results of local experiments. Extra water requirements were allowed for
land preparation and, in the case of paddy, for field submergence. Monthly
rainfall with a 90% chance of being exceeded was taken as the volume of
rain which would help satisfy consuwptive requirements. In calculating
pumping requirements, irrigation efficiency was assumed to be 60%, so that
LO% more water would be pumped into fanm ditches than the crops actually re-
quired. This extra water, however, would be returned to the khals and the
South Dakatia River for re-use. Domestic water requirements, estimated at
about 800 tol,200 ac ft per month, 1/ and 11,800 ac ft of losses each
month, 2/ would be met by either irrigation return flows or rainfall.  Thus,
the required project water requirements would be those for irrigation pre-
sented below.
75,000        82,000                         75,000        82,000
ac            ac                             ae            ac
 '000 ac ft--                  ------'000 ac ft-----
January          i6.6           48.0         July              0             0
February         33.3           32.6         August            0             0
March            53.9           52.4         September         5.2           6.3
April            57.9           61.2         October          22.6          27.
May               8.1           51.3         November         21.8          24.8
June              2.8            L.8         December         42.0          43.9
10.       As the figures show, the highest irrigation requirement would occur
in April with 57,900 ac ft for 75,000 ac of irrigated land. The project
assumes that only this amount of farm land, out of a total of 89,000 ac, would
be irrigated due to topographic reasons. Even if we allow for an increase in
irrigated area to as much as 82,000 ac, the peak April requirement would be
only 61,200 ac ft, well within the Char Baghadi regulator's nominal design
capacity of 68,000 ac ft. The attached table shows monthly irrigation require-
ments by crop based on 82,000 ac irrigated.
1/ 8-12 gal per day per person for 1.0 million persons.
2/ Maximum monthl.y project losses from seepage evapo-transportation from
canals, khals, and South Dakatia River, and lw1age, flushing and minor losses.



EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Irrigation Requirenent (Acre-feet per month)
1,000     Jan    Feb      Mar      Apr      May      Jun      July       Aug       Sept     Oct       Nov     Dec
B.Aus,Rainfed          7
T. Aus,IRRI           32                     22,400   34,140   25,300  1,400
B. Aman, IRRI         14                               4,480    3,360                                  1,400   5,950
T. Aman, IRRI         49                                                3,4oo                          4,900  14,800   1,500
Boro, IRRI            31    25,730  18,700  24,880   18,690   11,340                                                    4,150  22,410
Jute                   6                               3,060    2,160
Other Kharif Crops   18                                          8,640                                           810
Other Rabi Cropa      54    21,820  13,410   4,320                                                             5,450  18,640  21,070
Year Round Crops       1       440     520      830      8140      540                                            350     490 - 430
Total                212    47,990  32,630  52,430   61,210   51,340  14,800                           6.300  27,430  24,780  43,910
December 8, 1969
hi|



CHANDPUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
GENERAL CONTRACTING SCHEDULE
1969              1970                    1971               1972
____CONTRACTS____JIA.SIOINID J    A M J 'J A S! OND                        .)M    JiAISF0 N D iTF[ MAMiJ
CIVIL-STRUCTURAL CONTRACTS
CHAR BAGHADI
TENDER & AWARD
CONSTRUCTION
HAJIMARA
TENDER & AWARD
CONSTRUCTION                     _          __-_
EQ U IPME NT                                                                                      1
CONTRACTJ
EMBANKMENTS CONTRACTS                                   Tr
MAJOR CLOSURES CONTRACTS                 I I1T
DRAINAGE SLUICES CONTRACTS                                  *m
SOUTH DAKATIA DREDGING                      I III tIll              I   I I I  I   I I
J|A|S|O|N|D J |F |MAMJA |J |ONDJF |MAM| |J |A|SO|DJ|FMAJZ
1969              1970                    1971               1972      Z
IBRD-4636(R) 0






ANNEX 10
AST PAKISTAN                   Page 1
CHANUPUR IRIGATION PROJ'T
R?QUIR 'X;NTS FOR ANT AVAILABIIJTY OF
MATERIALS AND) LAND FOR MAJOR WORKS
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
Char    Haji-  Drainage Yearly  Total
Baghadi  mara   Sluices   Total  Project
1969-70
CEMENT
Total and Net Required
(tons)                        1660   1625       0       3285      -
REINFORCING STEEL
Total Required         (cwt)  8620   8568        0     17188      -
On Hand                (cwt)  5572   4613    1670    11855        -
Net Required           (cwt)  3872   6156        0     10028      -
SAND
Total Required (1000 cft.)    87        84       0        171     -
On Hand         (1000 cft.)   154    130         0        284     -
Net Required   (1000 cft.)    0         0        0         0      -
GRAVEL AGGREGATE
Total Required (1000 cft.)   173    168          0        341     -
On Hand         (1000 ¢ft.)   210    200         0        410     -
Net Required    (1000 cft.)    0        0        ;0        0      -
BRICKS
Total Required (1000's)       1476    957        0       2433     -
On Hand          (1000',)     1994   1609   11530    15133        -
Net Required    (1000's)         0      0,       0         0      -
SHEET PILING
Total Required (1000 sf)         28     23       0         51
On Hand    I    (1000 sf)       30      30   1 0           60     -
Net Required   (1000 sf)         0      0        0         0      -
PVC WATER STOP
Total Required (feet).        1140   1430        0       2570     -
On Hand         (fe~et)        800      0        0        800     -
Net Required   (feet)           340   1430       0       1770     -
WIRE NET
Total and Net Required
(1000 sf)                       48      48       0        96      -
1970-71
CEMENT
Total and Net Required
(tons)                        1880   1300      650      3830      -
REINFORCING STEEL
Total Required         (cwt)  7210   3174   ,2200    12584        -
On Hand                (cwt)   804   2505    1670        4979     -
Net Required           (cwt)  6758   1483       530      8771     -
SAND
Total Required (1000 cft.)    92        64       30       186     -
On Hand         (1000 cft.).   67       46       0        113     -
Net Required   (1000 cft.)    25        18       30        73     -
GRAVEL AGGREGATE
Total Required (1000 cft.)   186    129          0        315     -
On Hand         (1000 cft.)    37       32       0         69     -
Net Required   (1000 cft.)   149        97       0       246      -



AMN "IX 10
Page 2
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (Cont'd)
Char    Haji-  Drainage Yearly Total
Baghadi  mara   Sluices   Total Project
BRICKS
Total Required (1000's)         221     19      663       903    -
On Hand          (1000's)       518    652   11530    12700    -
Net Required    (1000's)         0       0       0         0      -
PVC WATER STOP
Total Required (feet)            0       0      660       660    -
On Hand          (feet)          0       0       0         0      -
Net Required    (feet)           0      0       660       660    -
1971-72,
CEMENT
Total and Net Required
(tons)                          0       0       650       650   7765
REINFORCING STEEL
Total Required         (cwt)    0       0      2200      2200  31972
On Hand                (cwt)   529    812        0       1341  18175
Net Required           (cwt)    0       0      2200      2200  20999
SAND
Total Required (1000 cft.)       0      0        30.       30    387
On Hand         (1000 cft,.)    0       0        0         0      284
Net Required    (1000 cft.)      0      0        30        30    103
GRAVEL AGGREGATE
Total Required (1000 cft,)       0      0        0         0      656
On Hand         (1000 cft,.)     0      0        0         0      410
Net Required    (1000 cft.)      0      0        0         0      246
BRICKS
Total Required (1000's)          0      0       664       664   4000
On Hand          (1000's)        0      0    10867    10867  15133
Net Required   (1000's)          0      0        0         0       0
SHEET PILING
Total Required (1000 sf)         0      0        0         0       51
On Hand         (1000 sf)        0      0        0         9       60
Net Required    (1000 sf)        0      0        0         0       0
PVC WATER STOP
Total Required (feet)            0      0       660        0    3230
On Hand         (feet)           0      0        0         0      800
Net Required    (feet)           0      0       660        0    2430
WIRE NET
Total and Net Required
(1000 sf)                       0       0        0         0      96



PROJECT LAND REQUIREMENTS
AND PRESENT STATUS
Total Land       Land         Funds          Funds
Required      Funds          Placed         Placed    Additional
For Initial    Placed      Possession    Possession        Land
Development   With D.C.    Received    Not Received  Required
Land Being                  Cost           Cost          Cost          Cost          Cost
Acquired            Area    Rs.  Area    Rs.  Area    Rs.  Area    Rs.  Area    Rs.
For               Acres  1000  Acres  1000  Acres  1000  Acres  1000  Acres  1000
Embankment           2012   8263  1336   5757  1079   4638   257   1119   676   2506
Regulators            137    463   137    463   130    438        7      25      0      0
Building and Colony   56    425    56    425    53    412         3      13      0      0
Brickfields            -       -    93    313    71    212    22    101          0      0
Pump Stations          _       _    27    156    27    155   0.2    1.0          0       0
Canals                  -       -    71    377    71    377        0      0      0       0
Loop Cutting
So. Dakatia-River    155    609    10        29    10      29      0      0   145    580
Easement for
Dredging              200    200      0       0     0       0      0      0   200    200
Drainage Sluices       80    240      0       0      0      0      0      0    80    240
TOTALS          2640  10200  1730   7520  1441   6261  289.2  1259  1101   3526
DD e 21
December 22,. 1969                                                                                   'o






ANNEX 11
Table 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
CAPITAL COSTS OF MAJOR WORKS
Rs Million               US$ Million
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Embankment                   5.2             5 5.2     1.1      -      1.1
Closures                     o.6      -      o.6      Oo.       -      0.1
Char Baghadi Regulator:
civil works                6.1      -      6.1       1.3      -      1.3
elec. and mech.            0.2     6.8     7.0       0.1     1.4     1.5
Power Line                   0.1     0.1     0.2        1/      1/     0.1
Hajimara Regulator:
civil works                6.1      -      6.1       1.       -      1.2
elec. and mech.            0.2     o.6     0.8        2/     0.2     0.2
Sluices                      1.0      -      1.0       0.1      -      0.2
Dredging S. Dakatia River   7.0       -       7.0      1.5      -      1.5
Contingencies 3/             3.6     1.7     5.3       0.8     0.3     1.1
Sub-Total            30.1      9.2    39.3       6.3     1.9     8.2
Land                         305              35       007      -      0.7
E9WAPDA staff and
services                   6.7      -      6.7       1.4      -      1.4
Consultants 4/               2.9     5.6     8.5       o.6     1.2     1.8
To-tal               IT.o T2l7   9.0   3                  .1    12.1
Duties and taxes             3.6      -      3.6       o.8      -      0.8
1/ US$ 50,000.
2/  Equivalent US$ 40,000.
3/  Contingencies will vary depending on the nature of the work but have
been estimated to average 15% for the major works, excluding land,
EPWAPDA staff and services, and consultants.
4/  Includes limited services for planning farm irrigation and agricul-
tural development program0



ANNEX 11
Table 2
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
CAPITAL COSTS OF INTERIOR IRRIGATION FOR 75,000 AC
Rs million                US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
Pumps, Engines, and Accessories    2.3      6.4     8.7        0.5     1.3      1.8
Spares, Pumps and Engines (10%)   20.3    o.6       0.9          -     0.1      0.1
Sub-Total                     2.6      7.0     9.6        0.5     1.4      1.9
Machinery and Equipt.               0.3     0.9     1.2        0.1      0.2     0.3
Buildings                          2.1        -     2.1        0.4       -      0.4
Land                                         - - _   .3        0.1       -      0.1
Sub-Total                     2.7     0.9      3.6        o.6     0.2     0.8
Excavation of Khals & Channels      1-5       -     1.5        0.3       -      0.3
Engr., Invest. and Overhead         1.4     o.6     1.7        0.3     0.1      0.4
Contingencies (15%)                1.0      1.2     2.2        0.2     0.2      0.4
TOTAL                         8.9      9.7   18.7         1.9     2.0     3-9
December 6, 1969



ANNEX 11
Table 3
CAPITAL COSTS OF AGRIZULTURAL AND
I.RIaATION DEVELOPMENT
(Local expenditures only)
Rs millions           US$ millions
Project Personnel
Agriculture                             2.2                     0.5
Cooperatives                            2.4                     0.5
EPADC Irrigation                                                1.7
uiib-'o-tal                         12.9                     2.7
Offices and Residences
Construction                           13.7 1/                  2.9
Land                                    °-5                     0.1
Sub-Total                           14.2                     3.0
Equipment and Furniture                    0.4  /                  0.1
4 Four wheel drive vehicles
7 Power boats
Office Equipment, furniture
Supplies and other
Operating lExpenses                        0.6                     0.1
TOTAL                   28.1                    5,9
g/ Includes 7-XX con-tingencies.
2/ Includes local procurement of imported or locally assembled items.






EAST PAKISTAN: CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION DURING CONSTRUCTION
ORGANIZATION CHART
CENTRAL REVIEW COMMITTEE
*   |             *                   | ~~~~~~~~~     ~~SECRETARYl
EPWAPDAI
EPWAPDA   [         .                   | ~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT|
PROJECT DIRECTOR  PRJECT AREA COMMITTEEPROJECT DIRECTOR
(CONSTRUCTION)                           PROJECT AREA COMMITTEE    |  (AGRICULTURE)
EPADC
.  :||SUPPLY WING
EPW AP DA                    DIVISION~7T
DREDGER       _:             DIVISION                      |EXTENSION                      PROCUREMENT
ORGANIZATION             CONSTRUCTION OF                          .                         OF PUMPS AND
ORGNIZTO     .CHAR BAGHADI REGU-                                       .   ACCESSORIES
S. DAKATIA              LATOR, EMBANKMENT
CHANNEL        .        AND SLUICES                                                   .
IMPROVEMENTS   .                                                                            EPADC
SUPPLY WING
_        CONSTRUCTION OF                     CORATIVES                     CONSTRUCTION
L    EPWAPDA               HAJIMARA REGULATOR                     L                           OF PUMP MAIN-
POWER KING             EMBANKMENT AND                                                     TENANCE FA-
SLUICES                                                       .  CILITIES
POWER SUPPLY
D IV ISIO0N. PW
PWD
EXCAVATION OF KHALS                                                                 I>D
AND CONSTRUCTION                      IRRIGATONCONSTRUCTION                         > z
_OF CONTROL AND                                                    OF OFFICES       D
PUMP STRUCTURES                                                    AND HO US IBNG  4
IBRD - 4785






EAST PAKISTAN: - CHANDPUR I I IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AFTER. COMPLETION OFCONSTRUCTION
ORGANIZATION CHART
CENTRAL REVIEW COMMITTEE
0    ~EPWAPDA       :,FERTR
ENGINEER IN CHARGE OF                                             PROJECT DIRECTOR             ADVISORY
OPERATION AND MAINTE-     |     PROJECT AREA COMMITTEE     j       (AGRICULTURE)               PANEL
NANCE OF MAJOR WORKS
_HARBAGHADI                                                      EXTENSION
|SUB-D IVISIO0Nl
HAJIMARA ~~~~~~~~~~~~n>
Z Z
I SUB-DIVISION                                                                   >R  4       X
IBRD - 4784 






ANNEX 13
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
ANNUAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS
Rs '000
Ma.jor Facilities
Operation and maintenance staff                            622.5
Overhead                                                    42.7
Regulators                                                  40.2
Embankment                                                  13.0
Sluices                                                     10.0
Buildings                                                   30.0
Transport, fuel, etc.                                      112.2
Power consumption                                          397.6
Water hyacinth control                                       3.4
Dredging                                                    20.0
Sub-Total                                            1,291.6
Interior Irrigation
Operation and maintenance of low-lift pumps              2,160.0
Replacement of pumps on basis of 8-year life             1,350.0
Maintenance of khals and facilities                         37.1
Sub-Total                                           3 ,547.1
Total                                               4.838.7
1/   Includes pump  drivers (1,500), operational and maintenance staff,
and operating supplies, excluding cost of fuel for pumps.
December 8, 1969



ANNEX 14
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
FARM PRODUCTION AND PUMP OPERATION COSTS
Variable Production Costs of Crops
1.        The costs per ac of producing various crops in the project are
shown in Table 1.   They are based on data supplied by the consultants,
the Pakistan Academy for Rural Development, and other sources. The costs
of rainfed cultivation are taken to represent present costs and future costs
without the project. The costs of irrigated cultivation represent the
costs with the project.   The costs of fertilizers and pesticides have been
adjusted to eliminate current subsidies. Imported items have been valued at
Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00 rather than the official rate of exchange.
Operating Costs of Low-Lift Pumps
2.        The annual costs, excluding fuel, of operating and maintaining the
2-cusec low-lift pumps are shown in Annex 13,   These costs will gradually
be covered by the annual pump rental charge levied upon each pump group.
The fuel for the pumps,however, is purchased by the members of the pump group
as one of their variable operating costs.   The theoretical consumption of
diesel fuel by a 2-cusec pump is 0.625 imperial gallons per hour. On the
basis of 4.46 ac ft per irrigated ac, one pump serving 50 ac would need to
supply 223 ac ft annually by pumping for 1,340 hours.   The cost of diesel
fuel purchased from the EPADC is Rs 2.50 per imperial gallon. 1/ Oil is
estimated to be 10% of the total fuel cost. Therefore, the total annual
cost of fuel and oil per pump would be Rs 2,310, or Rs 46 per ac.
3.        For calculating the rate of return to the economy, the cost of fuel
and oil has been estimated at Rs 1.00 per imperial gallon at the official
exchange rate, or Rs 1.70 at Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00. l/
l/                                          Cost to farmer    Economic cost
---Rs per imperial gallon --
Direct Foreign Exchange                   0.70              0.70 (.)40)
Import and Excise Duties                  1.08               -
Defense Surcharge                         0.27
Development Surcharge                     0.01               _
Freight (development surcharge)           0.15              O.l1
Dealer's commission                       0.05             0.05
Average octroi (tax)                      0.02               -
Freight costs, dealer to pump site        0.07 - 0.22       0.10
2.35 - 2.50      1.00 (1.70)
( ) = at Rs 9.52 = US$1.00



Table 1
RAST PAKISTAN
CHAHDUR II IRTIGATION PR0JZCT
VARIABLE PIOWXCTION COSTS OF CKDPS
(Rs/acre)
Power and          Fertilizer 1/
Labor             Fguijiit          aaJ?~i e -             Sede              P-sticides            Total
Rainted Irrigated    Rired  Irrigated   Reine rigarigatad ded IrriRated                              lf.d  Irrigatl
Paddy
B. AUs                  166.5   211.5       45.0    47.5        20.0     40.0       27.0     27.0        _       22.0        258.5    348.o
T. Aus                                                                                                                       254.5   362.5
T. uBs, IRRI            353.5 2/ 289.5      52.5    52.5        97.5    125.0       10.5     10.5      18.0      40.0        559-5 / 517.5
B. Aman                 144.5  189.5        40.0    42.5          -       24.0      42.0    42.0         _       22.0        226.5    320.0
Mixed B. Aus/Aae         200.5   258.0      50.0    55.5        20.0      40.0      39.0    39.0         -       22.0        309.5    414.0
T. Amn                  165.5   217.0       42.5    45.0        20.0     66.0       13.0     13.0      10.0      22.0        251.0    363.0
T. A-n, IRRI            352.5 2/ 289.0      47.5    52.5        97.5    125.0       10.5     10.5      19.0      40.0        554.5 Y  517.5
Boro                    163.0   218.5       42.5    45.0        28.0     66.o       11.0     11.0      10.0      22.0        254.5   362.5
Boro, IRRI              353.5 _/ 293.5      52.5    52.5        75.0    125.0       10.5     10.5      40.0      50.0        556.5 9/ 531.0
Other Short Season Crops
Jute                    289.5   312.5       40.0    40.0        20.0      60.0       8.0      8.0      10.0      40.0        347.5    460.5
Dahrif Fegetable                                                                                                             367.5    569.0
Dharif Fodder                                                                                                                128.5    227.5
Chillies                 241.0   301.0      45.0    45.0        25.0      60.0      10.0     10.0        -       60.0        321.0    476.0
Oil Seeds                82.5   114.5       27.5    30.0        15.0     49.0        4.0      4.0        -       30.0        128.5    227.5
PulBe Grain             1o6.0   169.5       27.5    40.0        10.0      15.0      15.0    15.0         -       30.0        158.5    269.5
Nillet                                                                                                                       158.5    269.5
Wheat                    117.0   155.0      37.5    40.5        20.0      40.0      16.o     16.0      60.0      60.0        250.5    352.0
Potato                   239.0   373.0      40.0    55.-        60.0     120.0     400.0    400.0      20.0     100.0        759.0  1,048.0
Rabi Vegetables         224.0   285.5       47.5    47.5        50.0    100.0       16.o    16.0       30.0     120.0        367.5    569.o
Rabi Fodder                                                                                                                  128.5    227.5
Tear Round Crops
Pasture                                                                                                                      128.5    227.5
Sugarcane               421.0   570.0       87.5   112.5        50.0    138.0       80.0    80.0        20.0     120.0       658.5  1,020.5
/  CIF prices tast Pakistan at Rs 9.52  US $1.0.
Z  Includes lis i5 forlabor for irrigation.
Note: Hainfed is taken to represent "without project" and irrigated the cost at full development with projec-'.






ANNEX 15
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN TO THE ECONOMY
1.        The rate of return to the economy from the Chandpur project has
been calculated at about 22%.   This calculation assumes a useful project
life of 50 years beginning in 1972/73 with the completion of the major
facilities.   The 1,500 low-lift pumps in the project are assumed to have
a useful life of 8 years each. The area irrigated is taken to increase by
roughly 25,000 ac annually over the 3 years: 1M72/73-1974/75, with the
installation of 500 pumps each year.
2.        Costs of investment, 0 & M  and farm production, including fuel
for pumps, have been adjusted for subsidies and taxes, and the cost of
imported items converted into local currency at the exchange rate of
Rs 9.52 - US$ 1.00.   Present capital costs of Rs 108.3 million (US$ 22.7 mil-
lion) with a foreign exchange eomponent of US$ 5.1 million, after adjustment,
totals Rs 129.1 million.   Added to this figure is Rs 25.2 million, the
estimated salvage value of materials, equipment, land and buildings from
the previous project, giving a total capital cost of Rs 154.3 million.
3.        The value of agricultural production in the project is calculated
on the basis of projected world prices translated in local currency at
Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00 for the most important commodities,and of 1967/68
growers' prices for the remainder. Rice in the project is valued at
Rs 25 per maund of paddy, wdhich, after allowing for processing and transport.,
is approximately equivalent to US$ 102 per lg ton of milled rice FOB Rangoon.
Prices of the other commodities are given in Annex 17.
4.        Production costs are those shown in Annex l4.   They have been
adjusted for subsidies and taxes at the Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00 rate of exchange.
Included in the production costs is the cost of fuel for operating the
low-lift pumps.   The cost to farmers, Rs 2.50 per imperial gallon, has been
adjusted for taxes (Rs 1.38 per gallon) and the Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00 rate
of exchange.
5.        Annual  0 & M  costs include replacement of low-lift pumps and
the cost of agricultural and cooperative personnel in the project
(Rs 1.2 million yearly) as well as the costs of operating and maintaining
the major works and interior irrigation system.



EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATICN PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN TO THE ECONOMY
(Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00)
(Rs million)
Incre-
Gross                               mental                   Incre-                  Present Worth Discounted
Produc-    Produc-    Net Pro-      Net Pro-                 mental                         at 22e
tion       tion 1/    duction       duction      0 & M       Project      Capital
Value       Costs-      Value        Value       Costs I/  Benefits        Costs     Benefits           Costs
1969/70      66.8        44.8        22.0            _4094                                                           33.5
1970/71      66.8        44.8        22.0            _                                   38.4         _              25.8
1971/72      66.8        44.8        22.0            _            _                      62.1         -              34.2
1972/73      78.9        49.6        29.3          7.3          1.4        5.9            6.4       2.7               2.9
1973/74      92.9        55.6        37.3         15.3          2.8       12.5            3.2       4.6               1.2
1974/75     108.7        62.4        46.3         24.3          4.3       20.0            3.3       6.1               1.0
1975/76     123.2        68.8        54.4         32.4          7.0       25.4              -       6.3                 -
1976/77     137.8        75.2        62.6         40.6          7.0       33.6              -       6.9                 _
1977/78     152.9        81.8        71.1         49.1          7.0       42.1              -       7.0                 _
1978/79     167.6        88.4        79.2         57.2          7.0       50.2              -       6.9                 _
1979/80     187.1        92.3        94.8         72.8          7.0       65.8              -       7.4
1980/81     206.8        96.4       110.4         88.4          7.0       81.4              -       7.5                 -
1981/82     226.6       100.7       125.9        103.9          7.0       96.9              -       7.3                 -
2022/23     226.6       100.7       125.9        103.9          7.0       96.9              -      33.1                 -
95.8              98.6
1/ Includes cost of fuel.
2/ Includes replacement of pumps and costs of agricultural and cooperative personnel.
,/ Includes Rs 25.2 million in materials, equipment, land and buildings from previous project.                         CD
December 6, 1969



ANNEX L6
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
RECOVERY OF PROJECT COSTS:
REPAYMENT CAPACITY TO FARMERS
Farm Incomes
1.        To assess the repayment capacity of farmers in the Chandpur project,
three representative farm budgets (Table 1) for holdings on which 2-ac
of paddy are grown were formulated. The first budget is for irrigated land
of higher elevation (10-12 ft above sea level), the second for land of low
elevation (7-10 ft above sea level), and the third for unirrigated land
(on which paddy and pulses are grown). These should be regarded as only
representative since typical farms probably would consist of several parcels
at differing elevations on which crops other than just paddy would be grown.
(See Annex 4).   These budgets, however, would represent approximate ranges
of incomes which could be expected in the project.
2.        Gross income is figured on the basis of Rs 22 per maund of paddy,
the 1967/68 grower's price in the project area. The cost of farm inputs
are those given in Annex 14, but without the cost of labor since this
presumably would be supplied by the family.   Interest on production loans
is 10% per annum on one-half of total production costs, excluding labor.
Other farm production costs are based upon data furnished by the consultants.
3.        A 1967 survey by the EPWAPDA Land and Water Use Directorate in the
project area revealed that the average farm family expenditure was Rs 770 in
cash, plus Rs 585 in on-farm consumption. The survey revealed further that
the value of crops produced on an average size holding (1.9 ac of which 1.5 ac
was farmed) was insufficient for supporting an average family.
The deficit was made up through sales of orchard and livestock
products, manual labor, and miscellaneous business and other services.
Annual Expenditures of Average Farm Family in Chandpur ProJect - 1967
(Rs)
Cash Expenditures
Food                                      416
Clothing                                   62
Fuel and house repairs                     80
Festivals, ceremonies, charity,etc.        93
Education                                  49
Medical                                    61
Interest and loan payments                  5
Taxes                                       4
770
On-farm Consumption                            585
Total                                        1,35



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Recovery of Costs
4.        The annual 0 & M costs for the project have been estimated at
Rs 15 per ac for the 89,000 ac receiving flood protection and general water
control.  For irrigated lands using low-lift pumps (75,000 ac), an additional
Rs 47 per ac would be for the 0 & M of the pumps and Rs 46 per ac for the
pump fuel, giving a total of Rs 108 per ac.
5.       'While, as the earlier analysis indicates, the average farm family
now lives virtually at subsistence, inlcmes should rise markedly once the
project has come into operation. Farmers using irrigation should be able
to cover all their costs, with a surplus and allowing for increased on-farm
consumption, roughly by the seventh year after the major works are completed
(June 1972) and the low-lift pumps installed (1972/73-1974/75).
6.        The first two farm budgets represent lands of differing elevations and
the third, land not receiving irrigation.   These should be regarded as possible
ranges since typical farms probably would consist of several parcels of differ-
ing elevations with incomes falling asceehere between the figures shown. Farm
budget (1) is based on lands with an elevation above sea level of 10 ft to
12 ft, which would provide the highest incomes. Farm budget (2), represent-
ing the lowest income on irrigated land,is for lands with an elevation of
7 ft to 10 ft.
7.        Farmers exemplified by budget (2) would, it is assumed, receive
pumps in 1972/73 and be paying full charges in 1983/84.   Farmers with land
10 ft to 12 ft above sea level would because of their higher elevation receive
pumps somewhat later, in 1974/75, and be paying full charges in 198h/85.
8.        Charges for the low-lift pumps would be collected by the project
annually from each pump group.   These charges would follow a gradually increasing
schedule, as currently provided in the Thana Irrigation Program, starting at
Rs 150 per 2 cusec pump the first year of operation and rising to about
Rs 2,750 the tenth year and thereafter. This amount (Rs 55 per ac)
would more than cover the estimated costs of operating, maintaining and
replacing the pumps. The farm budgets assume that each pump irrigates 50 ac.
Similarly, the estimated cost of fuel for each pump is based upon 50 ac.
The cost of fuel (diesel and lubricating oil) is the cost to the pump groups
who must purchase it.   The cost is estimated at Rs 2.50 per imperial gallon,
plus 10% for oil.   For a single pump irrigating 50 ac, the estimated annual
cost would run Rs 2,310 or Rs 46.20 per ac.  (See below).   Since the average
area served by each pump mw well increase beyond 50 ac (the pumps are physically
capable of irrigating more than 100 ac), the per ac costs of the pumps and fuel
in actuality probably would be less than those assumed above.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
9.        Estimated farm expenditures in the budgets are based on imported
inputs valued at Rs 9.52 - US$ 1.00 and without present subsidies to farmers
(i.e., pesticides presently are supplied free and fertilizers subsidized by
about 60%).   Fuel for low-lift pumps, however, includes a tax of Rs 1.38 per
gallon. Thus, in terms of current market prices, farmers' repayment capabilities
in these budgets are undere;tated. Actually, the payment of the tax on fuel by farmers
in Eaat Pakistan could be considered as a further payment for the project costs.
10.       It is expected that farmers in Farm Budget (3) category would remain
outside the low-lift pump program. However, they would benefit from flood
protection in the wet season and from higher soil moisture during the dry season.
11.       The foregoing analysis suggests that farmers in the Chandpur project
would have the capacity to pay for the annual recurring costs of the project
(excluding agricultural development services).
12.       Any recovery of costs, however, assumes that the entire project,
with water control, irrigation, adequate extension services, and supply of
agricultural inputs, would function as planned. Particular emphasis should
therefore, be placed on the supply of short-term agricultural credit. With-
out credit the repayment capacity of farmers would be impaired. It is equally
important that serious collection of water rates start in other irrigated
areas in East Pakistan so that farmers in the project area would not be re-
luctant to pay the charges laid upon them.
13.       In addition to the benefits to farmers, navigation and surface trans-
port in the project would be improved and the population at large would benefit
from flood protection and better supplies of domestic water. Besides the
charges on farmers the project could realize further revenues from imposing
tolls on boats entering or leaving the project area through the navigation
locks in the two regulators. It is not possible at this time to establish how
much such tolls should be or what their return in revenues to the project would
be. Assurances, however, would be obtained during negotiations that the
Government would study the question and, in consultation with the Association,
set appropriate levels to be collected.
14.       It would not be feasible for the project to recover any of the costs
directly from other beneficiaries. These are mainly owners of non-
agricultural property benefiting from flood control and boat owners benefiting
from better navigation. Union councils (local government bodies) in the



ANNEX 16
Plage 4
project area, however, should realize greater revenues by increasing
their present levies on real property and local boats.1/ This revenue should
be earmarked for local development, preferably as a counterpart and a match-
ing grant to the Rural Works Programme grants from the Provincial government.
From the point of view of project costs, the revenue that can be collected
in this way could be regarded as accelerating the recovery of 0 & M costs,
or, alternatively, as a beginning, albeit small, in the recovery of capital
costs.
1/    It is estimated that an additional Rs 2 flat rate per household
per year would generate about Rs 2,000 per union council; this would
represent about 25% of actual tax collections of a typical union
council. The revenue from boat taxes should be added to this amount.



EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
REPRESENTATIVE FARM BUDGET (1)
WITH 2-AC OF PADDY CULTIVATIOII ON IRRIGATED
LAND OF HIGO . ELEVATION (10-12 FT ABOVE SEA LEVEL)
1969/70                 1974/75                 1978/79                1981/82
Cropping Pattern                   2 ac B.Aus               2 ac T. Aus           1 ac T. Aus             2 ac T.Aus IRRI
2 ac T. Aman            2 ac T. Aman          1 ac T. Aus IRRI        2 ac T.Aman IRRI
1 ac T. Aman
1 ac T. Aman IRRI
Production (maunds)                       52                     100                    130                     200
Gross Production Value (Rs)1/         1,144                    2,200                  2,860                   4,4oo
Farm Production Costs ./                462                      768                    868                   1.051
Value of Production Before Costs
of Irrigation and Taxes(Rs)            682                    1,432                  1,992                   3,349
-  Pump Charges                           -                       6                     56                     110
-  Fuel Costs                             -                      92                     92                      92
-  Land Tax                              10                      10                     10                      10
-10                    -108                   -158                    -212
Value of Production After Costs
of Irrigation and Taxes (Rs)           672                    1,324                  1,834                   3,137
1/ Prices:  Paddy       -  Rs 22 per maund         2/  Farm inputs, excluding labor (Annex 14); depreciation of
Chillies   - Rs 75 per maund              house, bullocks, equipment, etc. (Rs 65); interest on
Oil seeds  -  Rs 45 per maund             production loan (10% per annum on 1/2 of inputs);
Pulses     - Rs 50 per maund              veterinariain cost for bullocks (Rs 25).
December 6, 1969



EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDFUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
REPRESENTATIVE FARM BUDaET (2)
WITH 2-AC OF PADDY CULTIVATION ON IRRIGATED
LAND OF LOMER ELEVATION (7-10 FT ABOVE SEA LEVEL)
1969/70                1974/75               1978/79                  1981/82
Cropping Pattern                     2 ac mixed              2 ac B. Aman         2 ac B. Aman            2 ac B.Aman
B.Aus/B.Aman
0.5 ac chillies        1 ac IRRI Boro        2 ac IRRI Boro          2 ac IRRI Boro
0.5 ac oil seeds        1 ac chillies
Production (maunds)                  37.2 mds paddy          83 mds paddy         136 mds paddy           150 mds paddy
Gross Production Value (Rs)-             1,585                  2,426                 2,992                   3,300
Farm Production Costs (Rs) /               382                    630                   826                     878
Value of Production Before Costs
of Irrigation and Taxes (Rs):           1,203                  1,796                2,166                    2,422
-  Pump Charges                            -                     24                   110                     110
-  Fuel Costs                              -                     92                    92                      92
-  Land Tax                               10                     10                    10                      10
-10                  -126                  -212                    - 212
Value of Production After Costs
of Irrigation and Taxes (Rs)            1,193                  1,670                1,954                    2,210
1/   Prices:   Paddy      - Rs 22 per maund              D Same as Table 1
Chillies   -  Rs 75 per maund
Oil seeds  - Rs 45 per maund
Pulses     - Rs 50 per maund
December 6, 1969



EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
REPRESENTATIVE FARM BUDGET (3)
WfITH 2-AC OF PADDY AND PULSES CULTIVATION
ON UNIRRIGATED LAND OF LOWER ELEVATION
(7-10 FT ABOVE SEA LEVEL)
1969/70              1974/75                  1978/79                1981/82
Cropping Pattern                                                        2-ac B.Aman- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
2 ac pulses
Production (maunds)
Paddy                                      22                  0                        46                    50
Pulses                                      8                  12                       12                    12
Gross Production Value (Rs)!/                  908               1.,480                   1,612                 1,700
Farm Production Costs (Rs)  /                 _373                 410                      441                   493
Value of Production Before Charges
for Flood Protection and Taxes                535               1,070                    1,171                 1,207
Land Tax                                   10                  10                       10                    10
-10                  10                     _10                   _10
Value of Production After Charges for
Flood Protection and Taxes                    525               1p60                     1,161                 1,197-
1/  Prices:   Paddy       -  Rs 22 per maund              / Same as Table 1.
Chillies    -   Rs 75 per maund
Oil seeds   -   Rs 45 per maund
Pulses      -   Rs 50 per maund
December 6, 1969






ANNEX 17
Page 1
EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES FOR AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
1.        Rice is the staple item in the East Pakistan diet.  Total consumption
of milled rice in 1968/69 was estimated at approximately 10.0 million lg tons, of
which 9.8 million were produced locally. Wheat is becoming increasingly important
in the province, with consumption rising from about 170,000 lg tons in 1959/60
to 1.0 million in 1968/69.   Imports of rice were 250,000 1g tons and wheat
950,000 tons in 1968/69.   Together, they averaged 869,000 lg tons during
1959/60 - 1968/69.   Most rice imports have come from Burma, Thailand and China
on government contracts. The bulk of the wheat has been imported from the United
States and West Pakistan.   Demand for rice and wheat in East Pakistan is projected
to grow to more than 20 million lg tons by 1980.j
2.        Consumption of foodgrains in the Chandpur project area, based on
18.9 oz daily per capita (the 1963 average in rural areas of East Pakistan),
was estimated at 104,000 lg tons in 1968, although actual consumption may
well have been lower. Of this amount, 98,000 tons were rice. Since current
foodgrain production in the area is insufficient to meet demand, imports
and supplies are brought in from other areas. Future demand for foodgrains
in the project, on the basis of the 1963 daily per capita figure above and
on the annual population increase of 3%, would increase to around 157,000
lg tons by the time the project reached full development.   Projected food-
grain production with the project should be able roughly to meet local demands.
3.        Landed prices of imported rice during the past three years have
ranged from approximately US$ 113 - US$ 142 per lg ton for Burmese to
US$ 144 - US$ 147 for Thai rice.  At the official exchange rate (Rs 4.76=US$ 1.00),
these prices are approximately equivalent to Rs 22 - 29 per maund of rice.
Actual prices have been substantially higher, ranging from about Rs 25 to more
than Rs 40 per maund for rice.2/The release prices of foodgrains from govern-
ment depots in 1968/69 were Rs 30.80 per maund of rice and Rs 20.80 per maund
of wheat. Growerst prices in the Chandpur area for paddy were Rs 22 per maund
in 1967/68.
4.        Recent world market prices for rice have been the highest since
the 1950's. Over the next several years, however, a large upswing in production
and supplies available for export is expected to cause a substantial
decline in world rice prices. The average FOB price for Burmese rice during
that time is projected to decline to about US$ 100 per m ton ($102 per lg ton)
1/  O.A. Abbas, Supply and Demand of Selected Agricultural Products in Pakistan
1961-1975 (Lahore, 1967).
2/ The average retail price of rice at  the village level in East Pakistan between
1959/60 and 1967/65 ranged from Rs 24 to Rs 40 per maund for coarse, and from
Rs 27 to Rs [3 for medium varieties. At the official rate of exchange, these
prices were US$137 to US$229 per long ton of coarse and US$15h to US$2h6 per
long ton of medium rice. In April 1969, the price was Rs 44 for medium, and
Rs 41 for coarse rice.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
and for Thai rice to about US$ 140 per m ton.  In terms of Pakistan rupees
these prices would approximately equal Rs 12.50, and Rs 18 per imaund of paddy
in the Chandpur area (allowing for transport and processing).   Taking Rs 9.52
US$ 1.00 as a more adequate reflection of the scarcity value of foreign exchange
in Pakistan, these prices would be about Rs 25 and Rs 36 per maund of paddy.
Rice output in the project has been valued at Rs 25 per maund of paddy.
5.        Demand in the project and surrounding areas for the other agricultural
comnodities is projected to rise substantially so there should be little
difficulty in their marketing.   The prices used to value wheat, jute and
sugarcane production in the project are world prices converted into local
currenoy at Rs 9.52   US$ 1.00.  For the remaining products, adjusted 1967/68
local prices have been used.
December 6, 1969



EAST PAKISTAN
CHANDPUR II IRRIGATION PROJECT
FARM PRICES
1967/68
Local Prices         Projected  ' World Pricesl/                       R  e  m  a  r  k  s
Rs per maund     Rs per maund         Rs per lg ton
Paddy                     22               25                 681                  US$ 102 per lg ton (US$ 100 per m ton)
FOB Rangoon, or US$ 112 per lg ton
CIF Chittagong
Wheat                     16                20               544                   Approximate equivalent to US.B 1.46
per bu CIF Chittagong.
Oilseeds (mustard)        45               45              1,222                   Approximate equivalent to US$ 128
per lg ton CIF Chittagong.
Jute                      30               45              1,225                   Approximate equivalent to US$ 131.25 per
lg ton FOB Chittagong
Sugarcane                  3                 3                82                   Approximate equivalent to US$ 0.037
per lb of raw sugar CIF Chittagong.
Vegetables                22                15               408
Pulses                    25                24               653
Millet                    16                19               517
Potatoes                  12               12                326
Fodder                     2                 1.7              46
Pasture                    _                 2.5              68
Chillies                  75                75             2,036
I/  RA 9.52 = US$ 1.00






CHANDPUR  IRRIGATION  PROJECT
R~~~~~~~I                                          AS    olad                s                                                                  He]Tracs__. j_
Di, lodae
Roads   Tracks  -  ~ ~ ~  ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~        -.AN            TAN
District Bouodasy _
Th... Boonda-y
Constructed Embankment       |
Proposed Embankment       _,>
e-od  Thana Headquarters .        anidgon"
Irrigation Sluices         '''9fi1l''   /    A   /C:HA~DPU}Bd rHA~A                         W             /          ;                  Xf 0   X    <0,X^; O\SX                           o
Inproved   StT.ighteoo d                              ND  UR                                                               - - - - - -
Rt--< ch.-I:     _' 
159 9J  U               l        S;uwllphpur < W/Frign   
Noivoehe I)#* 
, ~  ~       ~       ~       ' '______t                  X'      9                  \      v       \         ~                                                  __
4s& \\ .p A ~~~~~~~~~~RAMGANJ  THAWAA.
:- - ':H-1--"2--'                                                                                  e           SC--                                                                )
,[.  ~~~~~~~~~~~h
;  , i\Chor                       f           (          |5pesput                   Z          E               '              |_oridg
EAST PAKISTAN
SIEPTEM8ER  1969                                          9o-g 40'50                                                                                                            IBRD 2664



