CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 184 PAK
Project Agreement
(Chandpur II Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 14, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 184 PAK
Project Agreement
(Chandpur II Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 14, 1970


﻿0
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 14, 1970, between PROVINCE OF EAST
PAKISTAN, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called the Province), and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between Republic of
Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to assist in the financing of a project for flood protection, drainage and
irrigation near Chandpur in the Province and to make available to the Borrower
a development credit in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million dollars
($13,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Province agree to undertake certain
obligations to the Association as hereinafter in the Project Agreement set forth;
and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in the Project Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit
Agreement) shall have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Province
Section 2.01. (a) The Province shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
engineering, agricultural and financial practices.


﻿4                                           0
(b)   The Province shall provide, promptly as needed, all goods financed
under the Development Credit Agreement (Chandpur Project) between the Borrower
and the Association dated July 26, 1963, and all additional funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for carrying out and operating the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Province shall establish or
cause to be established a special revolving fund (hereinafter called the Project
Construction Revolving Fund) to be used exclusively to make payments for the
cost of goods and services required on the part of the Province to carry out Parts
A, C and E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement. The Province shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the Project
Construction Revolving Fund all amounts as shall be, from time to time, required
on the part of the Province to permit the payments heretofore spe.cified to be
made, promptly as needed, out of the Project Construction Revolving Fund. The
Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations
and financial condition of the Project Construction Revolving Fund.
(b)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Province shall make or cause to be made an initial deposit
in the Project Construction Revolving Fund in the amount of one million two
hundred thousand Rupees (Rs. 1,200,000) and thereafter shall on a quarterly basis
make or cause to be made deposits in the Project Construction Revolving Fund
in such amounts as shall be sufficient to meet payments for the costs of Parts
A, C and E of the Project required on its part to cover the forthcoming three
months of such costs as estimated on the basis of the work schedules relating
thereto.
(c)   The Province shall employ or cause to be employed by EPWAPDA
a qualified and experienced Project Director (Construction) who shall have powers
to operate the Project Construction Revolving Fund and shall have such other
powers and responsibilities as shall be mutually satisfactory to the Association and
EPWAPDA.
Section 2.03. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
Section 2.01 (a) or Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Province shall establish
or cause to be established a special revolving fund (hereinafter called the Project
Agriculture Revolving Fund) to be used exclusively to make payments for the cost
of goods and services required on the part of the Province to carry out Parts B
and D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.
The Province shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the Project Agriculture


﻿5
Revolving Fund all amounts as shall be, from time to time, required on the part
of the Province to permit the payments heretofore specified to be made, promptly
as needed, out of the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund. The Province shall
maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations and financial
condition of the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund.
(b)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Province shall make or cause to be made an initial deposit
in the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund in the amount of sixty-four thousand
Rupees (Rs. 64,000) and thereafter shall on a quarterly basis make or cause to
be made deposits in the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund in such amounts as
shall be sufficient to meet payments for the costs of Parts B and D of the Project
required on its part to cover the forthcoming three months of such costs as
estimated on the basis of the work schedules relating thereto.
Section 2.04. In carrying out the Project, the Province shall employ or cause
to be employed competent and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Association and tinder terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
(i)         to prepare the final engineering designs, specifications and tender
documents for Part A of the Project, to supervise construction
thereof and to certify the monthly expenditures under the
Project;
(ii)        to study and review the design of low-lift pumps for the Project
Area and prepare specifications for suitable pumps and engines;
(iii)       to assist the Project Director (Agriculture) in carrying out Parts
B and D of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Province shall take all necessary action to ensure that
the land or rights in respect to land required for the execution and operation
of Parts A and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 Lo the Development Credit
Agreement shall be acquired as and when needed for the carrying out of the Project,
under terms and conditions which ensure that the landowners whose land is thus
affected receive full and prompt compensation.
(b)   The Province shall cause all works and facilities included in the Project
to be at all times adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with sound
engineering and agricultural practices and standards -Ind shall cause all irrigation,
electric power works and other facilities not included in the Project but necessary


﻿6
to the proper and efficient operation thereof to be operated and adequately
maintained and repaired in accordance with such practices and standards. The
Province shall consult with the Association prior to transferring responsibility for
the maintenance and repair of any of the works and facilities included in Parts
A and C of the Project to any agency or organization other than EPWAPDA.
Section 2.06. (a) The Province shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to improve and expand agricultural services in the Project Area and to that end:
(i) shall cause its Department of Agriculture to employ a qualified and experienced
Project Director (Agriculture) who shall be responsible for the development and
implementation of a low-lift pump irrigation program and an agricultural support
program and shall have power to operate the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund
for the purposes of Parts B and D of the Project; and (ii) shall assign or cause
to be assigned such personnel to assist, and work under the control and supervision
of, the Project Director (Agriculture) in the discharge of his responsibilities as shall
be necessary to satisfy the personnel requirements in the Project Area for
agricultural extension, plant protection, installation, operation and maintenance of
pumps and for assistance to cooperatives.
(b)   The Province shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Association:
(i) to ensure that adequate funds are available for farm credit in the Project Area;
and (ii) to cause EPADC to distribute in the Project Area, promptly as needed,
seeds and fertilizers.
(c)   The Province shall carry out or cause to be carried out engineering
studies to determine for purposes of the Project, the most suitable pump and engine
combination for low-lift irrigation pumps and shall, not later than May 1, 1971,
submit to the Association, for its approval, standard specifications for low-lift
irrigation pumps based on the results of such studies.
Section 2.07. (a) The Province shall prepare and submit to the Association,
by a date not later than eighteen months from the date of this Agreement, or
such other date as may be agreed upon between the Province and the Association,
a plan providing for recovery of operation and maintenance costs of the works
included in Part A of the Project and shall consult with the Association as to
the measures to be taken to give effect to such plan.
(b)   The Province shall prepare and submit to the Association by not later
than June 30, 1973 a study of the feasibility of a system of tolls at navigation
locks in the Project Area and shall, promptly thereafter, consult with the
Association on appropriate measures for implementing the recommendations of the
study.


﻿7
(c)   The Province shall make arrangements or cause arrangements to be
made, by not later than ten years from the completion of the Project described
in Scheduh 2 to -*he Development Credit Agreement, providing for the recovery
from farmers in the Project Area, on terms and conditions mutually satisfactory
to the Province and the Association, of as much as practicable of the capital costs
of the Project.
(d)   The Province shall make arrangements or cause arrangements to be
made to ensure the collection of fees for the rental in the Project Area of low-lift
irrigation pumps and to ensure that such fees shall be on a graduated scale rising
to a level sufficient to ensure recovery by the tenth year of operation of the full
annual costs of operating, maintaining and replacing such low-lift irrigation pumps.
Section 2.08. (a) Upon request from time to time by the Association, the
Province shall promptly furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association the
plans, specifications and work schedules for the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association shall
request.
(b)   The Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
*         to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof), to show the results achieved by irrigation of the land
included in the Project and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition with respect to
the Project of the agency or agencies of the Province responsible for the carrying
out of the Project or any part thereof and of the Project Construction Revolving
Fund and the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund; shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods and any relevant records and
documents; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably reeiest concerning the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the Project Construction Revolving Fund
and the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund, and the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and the operations and financial condition with
respect to the Project of the agency or agencies of the Province responsible for
the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
(c)   The Province shall have the financial statements of EPWAPDA, EPADC
and of the departments and agencies of the Province responsible for the carrying
out of the Project or any part thereof and of the Project Construction Revolving
Fund and Project Agriculture Revolving Fund audited annually by competent and
experienced auditors acceptable to the Bank and shall, promptly after their


﻿8
preparation and not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year to
which they apply, transmit to the Bank certified copies of such statements and
a signed copy of the auditors' report.
Section 2.09. (a) The Province and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Province and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit. The Province shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit or the performance by the Province of its obligations under
the Project Agreement or which shall increase or threaten to increase materially
the estimated cost of the Project.
Section 2.10. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed by the Province and
the Association: (i) the Province shall cause all goods purchased with the proceeds
of the Credit to be used in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the
construction and subsequent operation of the Project, and (ii) the Province shall
cause title to all such goods to be obtained free and clear of all encumbrances.
(b)   Goods, the cost of which is financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of without the prior consent of the
Association.
Section 2.11. Except as the Province and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Province undertakes to have the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit insured against marine, transit and other hazards
incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely useable by the Province to replace or repair such goods.
Section 2.12. The Province shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in the territories of
the Borrower on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration of
this Agreement, or the payment of principal and service charges thereunder.
Section 2.13. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Province
shall prepare by not later than December 31, 1970, an agricultural development
program, mutually satisfactory to the Province and the Association, and thereafter


﻿9
shall, in consultation with the Association, adopt by not later than August 31,
1971, a schedule for the implementation of said program.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. The Project Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date when the Development Credit Agreement shall become effective as
provided therein.
Section 3.02. The Project Agreement and the obligations of the parties
thereunder shall terminate (i) on the date when the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, or (ii) on May 31, 1990, whichever
is the earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under the Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by the Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Province:
Chief Secretary
Government of East Pakistan
Dacca
Cable address:
East Pakistan
Dacca


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Section 4.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under the Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Province may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary to
the Government of East Pakistan or such other person or persons as the Province
shall designate in writing.
Section 4.04. The Province shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Province,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or
executed by the Province pursuant to any of the provisions of the Project
Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.05. The Project Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused the Project
Agreement to be signed in their respective names by their representatives thereunto


﻿11
duly authorized and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
By /s / Abdur R. Bashir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


