긴


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 340 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chandpur 11 Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 18, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 1972, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) On May 14, 1970 the Association agreed to make available
a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 184) in an amount equivalent
to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000) to assist in the financing of a project
for flood protection, drainage and irrigation on the east bank of the Meghna River
near the town of Chandpur (hereinafter called Chandpur II Irrigation Project);
(B)   withdrawals from the credit account opened by the Association under
Credit No. 184 were suspended on December 29, 1971;
(C)   by an exchange of letters between the Government of Sweden
(hereinafter called Sweden) and the Borrower on May 31, 1972 and June 2, 1972,
Sweden agreed to extend financial assistance to the Borrower as an interim source
of financing for certain projects of high developmental priority in the territories
of the Borrower, including Chandpur II Irrigation Project;
(D)   the Borrower has requested the Association to resume its financial
assistance for the continuation and completion of Chandpur II Irrigation Project,
as modified as hereinafter set forth, by extending to the Borrower a development
credit for such purpose, and to include therein provision for repayment to the
Association of the principal amount of Credit No. 184 withdrawn from the credit
account opened by the Association thereunder and for repayment to Sweden of
the financial assistance extended by Sweden for Chandpur II Irrigation Project;
and
(E)   the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated .anuary 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   the term "Project Area" means an area of approximately 133,000 acres
on the east bank of the Meghna River near the town of Chandpur and located
in the Districts of Comilla and Noakhali;
(b)   the term "Water Board" means Bangladesh Water Development Board,
a body corporate constituted by the Bangladesh Water and Power Development
Boards Order No. 59 of 1972, and includes any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for the purposes set forth
in paragraph 6 of such Schedule and for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be


﻿5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1982 and ending May 1, 2022 each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the Water
Board, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, and without restriction
or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 3.01, the
Borrower shall (i) establish or cause to be established a special revolving fund
(hereinafter called the Project Fund) to be used for the sole purpose of making
payments for goods and services required for the Project, (ii) deposit or cause
to be deposited in the Project Fund on the first day of each calendar month such
amount as shall be required to maintain the Project Fund at a level which will


﻿6
be sufficient to meet payments expected to be made by the Borrower for the
Project during the forthcoming three months, as estimated on the basis of the
Project work schedules, and (iii) maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the operations and financial condition of the Project Fund.
(c)   The Borrower shall continue to employ or cause to be employed a
qualified and experienced Project Director who shall be empowered to operate
the Project Fund and shall have such other functions and responsibilities as shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. In carrying out the Project, the borrower shall employ or cause
to be employed competent and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Association and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
(i)         to prepare final engineering designs, specifications and tender
documents for Part A of the Project, to supervise construction
thereof and to certify the monthly expenditures under the
Project;
(ii)        to study and review the design of low-lift pumps for the Project
Area, and to prepare specifications for suitable pumps and
engines;
(iii)       to assist the Project Director in carrying out Parts B, C and
D of the Project; and
(iv)        to assist the Project Director in the carrying out of the studies
under Part E of the Project, and in the preparation and
implementation of the plan under Part F of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that
the land or rights in respect to land required for the execution, operation and
maintenance of Parts A and C of the Project, including relocation of embankments
as necessary, shall be acquired as and when needed for such purpose, under terms
and conditions which ensure that the landowners whose land is thus affected receive
full and prompt compensation.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes that (i) all works and facilities
included in the Project, as well as all works and facilities constructed or installed
under Credit No. 184 or with interim financing provided by Sweden, and all
irrigation, electric power works and other facilities not included in the Project


﻿7
but necessary to the proper and efficient operation thereok, will at all times be
properly and efficiently operated and adequately maintained and repaired in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices and standards, (ii) the Borrower will make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources which
will be required for the aforementioned purposes, and will establish and commence
to implement, or cause to be established and commenced to be implemented, by
January 1, 1973 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association), a comprehensive program satisfactory to the Association for
the maintenance and repair of the aforementioned works and facilities, including
relocation of embankments as necessary and (iii) the Borrower will consult with
the Association before transferring responsibility for the maintenance and repair
of any of the aforementioned works and facilities to any department, agency or
organization other than the Water Board.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the detailed engineering studies
under Part E of the Project are carried out upon terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association and are completed by April 1, 1973 (or such other date as
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association).
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
engineering studies to determine, for the purposes of the Project, the most suitable
pump and engine combination for low-lift irrigation pumps and shall, by May 1,
1973 (or such date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association), submit to the Association, for its approval, standard specifications
for low-lift irrigation pumps based on the results of such studies.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that fees are collected for the rental
in the Project Area of low-lift irrigation pumps, and that such fees shall be on
a graduated scale rising by the tenth year of operation to a level sufficient to
provide recovery of the full annual cost of operating, maintaining and replacing
such low-lift irrigation pumps.


﻿8
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and submit, or cause to be
prepared and submitted, to the Association by a date not later than 2 years from
the date of this Agreement (or such other date as may be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association), a plan providing for recovery of operation and
maintenance costs of the works included in Part A. of the Project, and shall consult
with the Assc iation as to the measures to be taken to give effect to such plan.
(b)   The Borrower shall prepare and submit, or cause to be prepared and
submitted, to the Association by a date not later than 5 years from the date of
completion of the Project (or such other date as may be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association), a plan providing for recovery of as much as
practicable of the capital costs of the Project, and shall consult with the Association
as to the measures to be taken to give effect to such plan.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall prepare, by January 1, 1973 (or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), an
agricultural development program satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
including provision for fisheries as approved by the Borrower's Directorate of
Fisheries, and shall thereafter, in consultation with the Association, take or cause
to be taken appropriate measures for the implementation of said program.
Section 3.1 1. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports and work and procurement
schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to
disclose the use thereof in the Project and to show the results achieved by irrigation
of the land included in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound


﻿9
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Projec,t, of the Water Board and of any other departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out or operating the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) cause the accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year of the Project Fund, the Water Board and of any other departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out or operating the Project
or any part thereof to be audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by competent and experienced auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said accounts and financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their represc :atives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Project Fund, and, in respect of the Project, of the Water
Board and of any other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out or operating any part of the Project, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿10
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Project Fund and, in respect of the Project, of the Water Board
and of any other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out or operating any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws o,
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from      any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such


﻿11
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Water Board or for the
suspension of its operations.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7,01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified: the event specified in Section 7.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date December 18, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.04 and 3.08
of this Agreement, and the provisions of Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this Agreement,
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Chief of the External Resources Division of the Planning
Commission of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
p0


﻿12
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street,N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A.M.A. Muhith
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Vice President,
Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.         Low-lift pumps,              1,800,000         100% of foreign
engines and                                    expenditures
accessories
II.       Mechanical and                1,900,000         100% of foreign
electrical                                     expenditures
equipment for
regulator
II.      Other imported                1,100,000         100% of foreign
machinery and                                  expenditures
equipment
IV.        Consultants' services        1,400,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
V.         Civil works contracts        4,600,000         60% of total
and force account                              expenditures
works
VI.        Materials, minor               100,000         60% of total
equipment and                                  expenditures
furniture
VII.       Repayment of                   595,269.03
principal amount
withdrawn under
Credit No. 184
VIII.     Unallocated                   1,504,730.97
TOTAL             13 000,000.00


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced is, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made under Categories I to VI, inclusively, in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, except as
provided in paragraph 6(a) hereof; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of sch expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿15
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category V or
VI shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.    The Association shall, on the Effective Date or as soon as possible thereafter,
withdraw from the Credit Account and pay:
(a)   to Sweden, under Categories I to VI, respectively, the equivalent of
amounts disbursed by Sweden, until the Effective Date, in respect of items within
said Categories, under the interim financing arrangements for Chandpur II Irrigation
Project referred to in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement; and
(b)   to the Association, under Category VII, an amount equivalent to
$595,269.03, in full repayment in advance of maturity of the principal amount
of Credit No. 184 withdrawn from the credit account opened by the Association
thereunder, it being hereby agreed and recorded that, for the purpose of determining
the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid by the Borrower, in accordance
with Section 4.03 of the General Conditions, this withdrawal shall be deemed to
have been made as of the respective dates of withdrawal under Credit No. 184.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the completion of flood control and other works in an area
of about 133,000 acres located on the east bank of the Meghna River near the
town of Chandpur; the provision of portable pumps for irrigating about 71,000
acres within the protected area, to increase yields and cropping intensity; and the
strengthening of the agricultural support program to provide extension services and
farm inputs throughout the protected area.
The Project includes:
Part A.
(i)         construction or reconstruction of about 22 miles of peripheral
embankments, having a crest width of about 14 feet;
(ii)        installation of an inlet regulator with a 1,200-cusec pumping
station and an outlet regulator together with appropriate
navigation locks;
(iii)       construction of 8 reinforced concrete sluice gates;
(iv)        improvements to the South Dakatia River channel; and
(v)         construction of a 33 KV electric power substation together with
a transmission line approximately 2-1/2 miles long leading to
the inlet regulator.
Part B:
(i)         supply of 1,500 2-cusec pumps and accessories;
(ii)        supply of 1,500 diesel engines, accessories and spares;
(iii)       provision of maintenance facilities.
Part C:
Excavations of khals and channels and the construction of control structures,
pump houses, and other works necessary for utilizing the 2-cusec pumps.


﻿17
Part D:
Provision of agricultural extension and inputs, irrigation, cooperative and
supporting personnel, together with necessary housing, offices, transport, office
equipment, furniture and materials.
Part E:
Detailed engineering studies for stabilization of the Meghna River bank
adjacent to the works under Part A of the Project, taking into consideration the
interaction of said works with the stabilization works being constructed to protect
the town of Chandpur.
Part F:
Preparation and implementation of a plan to preserve fisheries in the Project
Area.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   With respect to goods and services in Categories I, II, and III of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, items to be procured shall be grouped together whenever
possible in amounts sufficient to attract international competition. Whenever the
estimated cost of such items or groups of items exceeds the equivalent of $ 10,000,
they shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972.
2.    With respect to goods and services in Category V of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the works included in such Category to be
carried out by the Water Board on force account, or on the basis of competition
locally advertised and in accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraphs
3 and 4 hereof.
3.    With respect to all contracts or letters of intent for works included in
Category V of Schedule I to this Agreement (other than works to be carried out
on force account) involving expenditures expected to exceed the equivalent of
$100,000, as well as with respect to all contracts or letters of intent for the purchase
of machinery, equipment, vehicles and materials included in Categories I, II, and
III of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and involving expenditures expected to exceed
the equivalent of $50,000, the following procedures shall be followed:
(a)   Invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed terms and conditions
of contracts, and all other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed, will be submitted to the Association for
review and approval, which approval shall be obtained prior to the issuance of
invitations to bid.
(b)   After bids have been received and analyzed, the analyses of bids and
the recommendations thereon of the Borrower and of the consultants, as well as
the Borrower's proposals for awards, will be furnished to the Association for review
and approval, which approval shall be obtained prior to making any award of
contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c)   If the final contract or letter of intent is to differ substantially from
the terms and conditions contained in the respective documents approved by the
Association under paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the text of the proposed changes


﻿19
will be submitted to the Association for review and approval prior to the execution
of such contract or issuance of such letter of intent.
(d)   Two conformed copies of any contract executed and of any letter
of intent issued under this paragraph 3 shall be sent to the Association promptly
upon their execution or issuance.
4.    With respect to all contracts or letters of intent for works included in
Category V of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (other than works to be carried out
on force account) involving expenditures expected to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less, as well as with respect to all contracts or letters of intent for
the purchase of machinery, equipment, vehicles or materials included in Categories
, 11, and III of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and involving expenditures expected
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, copies of the invitations to bid, bid
analyses and evaluations, as well as any other bid documents or relevant information
requested by the Association and two conformed copies of any such contract or
letter of intent, shall be sent to the Association promptly after the execution of
any such contract or issuance of any such letter of intent and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract or letter of intent.
5.    For the purpose of awarding contracts for the purchase of machinery,
equipment, vehicles or materials included in Categories I, II, and III of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and be compared on the
following basis:
(i)         the term "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods
manufactured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Association) in such territories; any other
bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(ii)        the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price
of such goods;
(iii)       for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local
Bid, the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:
(a)   the c.i.f. Chittagong landed price of such goods; and


﻿20
(b)   the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Borrower which generally apply
to non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (a) above, whichever shall be the lower.
6.    With respect to the procurement of equipment in Categories 1, 11, and III
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, bidding documents shall require the supplier
to provide adequate after-sales services.
7.    With respect to items or groups of items in Category Ill of Schedule I to
this Agreement the value of which does not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval details of the proposed
procurement procedure, as well as periodic lists of items so purchased indicating
the price of such goods and the suppliers thereof.


