CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 184 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chandpur II Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 14, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 184 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chandpur II Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 14, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 14, 1970, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Province of East Pakistan have requested
the Association to assist in the financing of a project for flood protection, drainage
and irrigation near Chandpur in the Province of East Pakistan;
WHEREAS the Province of East Pakistan will, with the Borrower's assistance,
carry out or cause to be carried out said project and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Province of East Pakistan the proceeds
of the development credit provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a development credit .-vailable
on the terms and conditions provided herein and in a project agreement of even
date herewith between the Province of East Pakistan and the Association;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Special Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association as so modified being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(b)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".


﻿4
(c)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, acting
by its President."
(d)  The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings set forth, and the following additional terms shall
have the following meanings:
ia)  The term "Province" means the Province of East Pakistan, a political
subdivision of the Borrower.
(b)   The term  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Province and the Association of even date herewith, providing for the carrying
out of the Project, and shall include any amendments thereof made by agreement
between the Province and the Association.
(c)  The term "Project Area" means an area of approximately 140,000
acres on the east bank of the Meghna River near the town of Chandpur and located
in the Districts of Comilla and Noakhali.
(d)   The term  "EPWAPDA" means East Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority, an authority established under the East Pakistan Water
and Power Development Authority Ordinance, 1958, and includes any successor
thereto.
(e)  The term "EPADC" means the East Pakistan Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporate entity established under Ordinance No. XXXVII of 1961,
and includes any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000).


﻿Section 2.01. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i)        such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Categories I - V of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; and
(ii)       the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of such amounts as
shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, of
such amounts as shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Categories VI and VII of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement.
provided, however, that (a) if there shall be an increase in the estimate of such
payments for goods or services included in any of the Categories VI and VII, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable
to such Category as required in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit
then allocated to such Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the payments remaining to be made for goods or services included in such Category,
and (b) if there shall be a decrease in the estimate of such payments for goods
or services included in any of the Categories VI and VII, the Association shall,
at the request of the Borrower, increase the stated percentage applicable to such
Category as required to permit total withdrawal of the portion of the Credit then
allocated to such Category.


﻿6
Section 2.04. (a) No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made:
(i)        under Categories I - IV of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on
account of payments in the currency of the Borrower, or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of
the Borrower; or
(ii)       on account of payments for taxes imposed by the Borrower or
any of its political subdivisions on, or in connection with the
importation or supply of, goods or servict. s included in Categories
VI and VII of said allocation of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section 5.01 ef the General Conditions,
that withdrawals from the Credit Account under the Categories of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
hereinafter specified may be made on account of payments made prior to the
date of this Development Credit Agreement but after the following dates:
(i)        under Category II after February 1, 1970, and
(ii)       under Category VI after January 1, 1970.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing May 1, 1980 and ending November 1, 2019, each
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 1989 to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
applied in accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement
to expenditures on the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto, as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of such goods and services shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association
except as otherwise provided in such Schedule 3.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all action which shall be necessary on its part
to enable the Province to perform all its obligations under the Project Agreement
and shall not take any action that would interfere with the performance of such
obligations by the Province.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit or
the equivalent thereof to the ProvinLe on the same financial terms as those of
the Credit except that the principal amount of, and service charges on, the credit
provided for in such relending shall be repayable to the Borrower by the Province
in the currency of the Borrower.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be made available
to the Province, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources
which shall be required for carrying out and operating the Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Cru-dit or
the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.04. The principal of, and services charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower - laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.05. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof
the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with
the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration, such principal shall


﻿9
become due and payable immediately, anything in the Development Credit
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a default shall have occurred
in the performance of any covenant or agreement of the Province under the Project
Agreement and such event shall continue for a period of sixty days.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Province have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b)   the Province shall have established (or cause to be established) and
made the initial payment into the Project Construction Revolving Fund, as required
under paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(c)   a Project Director (Construction) shall have been appointed pursuant
to paragraph (c) of Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(d)   +he Province shall have established and made the initial payment into
the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund as required under paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement;
(e)   a Project Director (Agriculture) shall have been appointed pursuant
to paragraph (a) of Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement;
(f)   such land in the Project Area, or the rights relating thereto, as shall
be required in 1970 for the purposes of Part A of the Project shall have been
acquired;
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿10
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Province and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Province in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  that EPWAPDA     (or such other organization or ages y as the
Association may approve) has full power and authority to construct and operate
Parts A, C and E of the Project and has all necessary rights and powers in connection
therewith and that all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor have been
duly and validly performed or given.
(c)  that East Pakistan Department of Agriculture (or EPADC or such other
organization or agency as the Association may approve) has full power and authority
to construct and operate Parts B and D of the Project and has all necessary rights
and powers in connection therewith and that all acts, consents and approvals
necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date of September 15, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1974, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 7.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad


﻿11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Abdur R. Bashir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent
J.         Low-lift pump engines and
accessories                                     1,400,000
II.        Mechanical and electrical
equipment for regulator                         1,600,000
III.       Other imported machinery and
equipment                                        250,000
IV.        Consultants' services                           1,200,000
V.         Low-lift pumps and
accessories                                      360,000
VI.        Civil works contracts and force
account works                                   6,230,000
VII.       Materials, minor equipment and
furniture                                        140,000
VIII.      Unallocated                                     1,820,000
Total              13,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to VII shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and
no longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category VIII.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to VII shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such


﻿0                              13
increase to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case
of Categories VI or VII, an amount equal to 70% of such increase) will
be allocated by the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from Category VIII, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect of the cost of
the items in the other Categories.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the completion of flood contrnl and other works in an area
of about 140,000 acres located on the east bank of the Meghna River near the
town of Chandpur; the provision of portable pumps for irrigating about 75,000
acres within the protected area, to increase yields and cropping intensity; and the
strengthening of the agricultural support program to provide extension services and
farm inputs throughout the protected area.
The Project includes:
Part A.
(i)         construction of about 29 miles of peripheral embankments,
having a crest width of about 14 feet;
(ii)        installation of an inlet regulator with a 1,200-cusec pumping
station and an outlet regulator together with appropriate
navigation locks;
(iii)       construction of 8 reinforced concrete sluice gates;
(iv)        improvements to the South Dakatia River channel; and
(v)         construction of a 33 KV electric power substation together with
a transmission line approximately 2-1/2 miles long leading to
the inlet regulator.
Part B.
(i)         supply of 1,500 2-cusec pumps and accessories;
(ii)        supply of 1,500 diesel engines, accessories and spares;
(iii)       provision of maintenance facilities.
Part C.
Excavations of khals and channels and the construction of control structures,
pump houses, and other works necessary for utilizing the 2-cusec pumps.


﻿15
Part D.
Provision of agriculturai extension, irrigation, cooperative and supporting
personnel, together with necessary housing, offices, transport, office equipment,
furniture and materials.
Part E.
Provision of consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to goods and services in Categories I, 1I, III and V of
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, items to be procured shall be grouped together whenever applicable
in amounts sufficient to attract international competitive bidding. Whenever the
estimated cost of such items or groups of items exceeds the equivalent of $10,000,
they shall be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding pursuant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
2.    With respect to goods and services in Category VI of such allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower shall cause the civil works included
in such Category (a) to be carried out by EPWAPDA, the EPADC or the East
Pakistan Works, Power and Irrigation Department on force account, or (b) to be
carried out by local contractors on the basis of local competitive bidding and
pursuant to the provisions set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 hereof.
3.    With respect to all contracts or letters of intent for civil works involving
expenditures expected to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 and included in
Category VI of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and referred to in
paragraph 2 (b) hereof, as well as with respect to all contracts or letters of intent
for the purchase of machinery, equipment, vehicles and materials included in
Categories I, II, III and V of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and
involving expenditures expected to exceed the equivalent of $50,000, the following
procedures shall be followed:
(a)   Invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed terms and conditions
of contracts, and all other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed, will be submitted to the Association for
review and approval, which approval shall be obtained prior to the issuance of
invitations to bid.
(b)   After bids have been received and analyzed, the analyses of bids and
the recommendations thereon of the Borrower and of the consultants, as well as
the Borrower's proposals for awards, will be furnished to the Assocation for review
and approval, which approval shall be obtained prior to making any award of
contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c)   For the purpose of awarding contracts for the purchase of machinery,
equipment, vehicles or materials included in Categories I, II, III and V of such


﻿17
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, bids will be compared on the following
basis:
(i)         the bids submitted by foreign manufacturers will first be
compared on the basis of a bid price which shall consist of the
c.i.f. (Chittagong) landed price plus the actual rate of customs
duties and similar taxes paid or to be paid and the local agents'
commissions, if any; the lowest such bid shall be deemed to
be the lowest foreign bid; if no bids are submitted by Pakistani
manufacturers, the lowest foreign bid will be considered the
lowest evaluated bid if other terms and conditions are
satisfactory;
(ii)        the bids submitted by Pakistani manufacturers will be compared
on the basis of the ex-factory price, and the lowest such bid
shall be deemed to be the lowest bid; if no bids are submitted
by foreign manufacturers, the lowest Pakistani bid will be
considered the lowest evaluated bid if other terms and conditions
are satisfactory;
(ili)       if foreign  manufacturers and Pakistani manufacturers have
submitted bids, the lowest foreign bid shall be compared with
the lowest Pakistani bid on the basis of a price for the lowest
foreign bid consisting of the c.i.f. (Chittagong) landed price plus
15% of such price or the rate of customs duties and similar
taxes which applies to non-exempt purchasers in the territories
of the Borrower, whichever is the lower, plus the local agents'
commissions, if any, and on the basis of ex-factory price of the
lowest Pakistani bid; if the price of the lowest Pakistani bid
is equal to or lower than the price of the lowest foreign bid,
and other terms and conditions are satisfactory, then the lowest
Pakistani bid will be considered the lowest evaluated bid.
(d)   If the final contract or letter of intent is to differ substantially from
the terms and conditions contained in the respective documents approved by the
Association under paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the text of the proposed changes
will be submit d to the Association for review and approval prior to the execution
of such contract or issuance of such letter of intent.
(e)   Two conformed copies of any letter of intent issued and of any
contract executed under this paragraph 2 shall be sent to the Association promptly
upon their issuance or execution.


﻿18
4.    With respect to all contracts or letters of intent for civil works involving
expenditures expected to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less and included
in Category VI of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and referred to
in paragraph 2 (b) hereof, as well as with respect to all contracts or letters of
intent for the purchase of machinery, equipment, vehicles or materials included
in Categories I, II, III and V of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and involving expenditures expected to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000,
copies of the invitations to bid, bid analyses and evaluations, as well as any other
bid documents or relevant information requested by the Association and two
conformed copies of any such contract or letter of intent, shall be sent to the
Association promptly after the execution of any such contract or issuance of any
such letter of intent and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract or letter of intent.
5.    With respect to the procurement of equipment in Categories I, II, III
and V of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, bidding documents shall
require the supplier to provide adequate after-sales services.
6.    With respect to items or groups of items in Category III of such
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit the value of which does not exceed the
equivalent of $10,000, international competitive bidding may be dispensed with,
provided that the Borrower shall send to the Association for their approval details
of the proposed procurement procedure as well as periodic lists of items so
purchased indicating the price of such goods and the suppliers thereof.


