                                 Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                    Report No: ICR00001789



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-47720)



                                     ON A LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 50.6 MILLION
                       (US$ 67.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

           TURKISH ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION CORPORATION

           WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

       IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE US$1,000 MILLION

      ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE (APL) PROGRAM


                               September 28, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2010)
                  Currency Unit = New Turkish Lira (YTL)
                      YTL 1.55 = US$1
                       US$ 1.33 = EUR 1

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
DPL     Development Policy Loan
EC      European Commission
ECSEE   Energy Community of South East Europe
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
EMRA    Energy Market Regulatory Authority
ERP     Enterprise Resource Planning (A business software application)
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
EU      European Union
EUAS    Electricity Generation Corporation
FI      Financial Intermediary
GIS     Gas Insulated Switchgear
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
kWh     Kilo Watt hour
MWh     Mega Watt hour
LAMF    Land Acquisition Management Framework
MENR    Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MVA     Mega-Volt Ampere
NTGP    National Transmission Grid Project (Loan)
OP      Operational Policy
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SEE     South East Europe
SPO     State Planning Organization
TEDAS   Turkish Electricity Distribution Corp
TEIAS   Turkish Electricity Transmission Corp
TETAS   Turkish Electricity Trading and Contracting Corp

                    Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                 Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
                   Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
              Project Team Leader: Sameer Shukla
                       ICR Author: Jari Väyrynen
                                          TURKEY
                      Energy Community of South East Europe APL 2 Project


                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 42
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 44
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 49
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50
  MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Energy Community of
Country:                Turkey                  Project Name:            South East Europe
                                                                         (APL #2) (Turkey)
Project ID:             P094176                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-47720
ICR Date:               09/29/2011              ICR Type:                Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                TEIAS
Original Total
                        USD 66.00M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 68.25M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 66.00M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 TEIAS (Turkish Electricity Transmission Corporation)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/23/2004     Effectiveness:             09/01/2005       09/01/2005
Appraisal:            10/25/2004     Restructuring(s):                           11/14/2007
Approval:             04/04/2005     Mid-term Review:           01/31/2008       01/26/2008
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010       12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                 100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regional integration                                                   33
Regulation and competition policy                                      67              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Ulrich Zachau                        Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                     Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:       Sameer Shukla                        Ranjit J. Lamech
ICR Team Leader:           Jari Vayrynen
ICR Primary Author:        Jari Vayrynen


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of the investment programs
of TEIAS, including: (a) creation of a market management system for the management of
the electricity market; (b) strengthening supervisory control and data acquisition/energy
management system to enable TEIAS to operate more efficiently; and (c) provision of
transmission grid strengthening and expansion for overall stability.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                               ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                                Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval        Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)       Values        Target Years
                  APL2 projects are completed and Turkish electricity market and power systems
Indicator 1 :
                  operate with the help of these investments
Value
quantitative or   0%                        100%                            100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                12/31/2010                      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          End of project target 100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Peak demand carried by system (GW)
Value
quantitative or   23.5                      31                              33.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                12/31/2010                      08/05/2010
Comments
                  Target achieved at108% of target value. Target was exceeded on August 5, 2010,
(incl. %
                  and the peak demand carrying capacity of the system has been maintained since.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Electricity transmitted (TWh)
Value
quantitative or   121                       176                             192.37
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                12/31/2010                      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved at 109% of target value.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Operating costs of trasnmission (US$/GWh)
                                            1910 (revised
Value
                2030 (revised calculation calculation -
quantitative or                                                               2057
                - earlier estimate 1834) earlier estimate
Qualitative)
                                            1700)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                    12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
                Not achieved. Operating costs remain higher than target mainly due to increased
Comments
                staff and ancillary services costs as TEIAS has grown. The revisions on baseline
(incl. %
                and target values relate to changes in calculation assumptions and included cost
achievement)
                categories.
Indicator 5 : Electricity sold on the market as % of electricity transmitted
Value
quantitative or 0%                          20%                               26.48%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                    12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
                Target achieved at 132% of target value.
(incl. %



                                                  iii
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Total accidents
Value
                                            18 (revised target,
quantitative or   21                                                           22
                                            earlier target 15)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments          Not achieved. The number of accidents remains above target. The indicator does
(incl. %          not differentiate between serious and less serious accidents. The original target
achievement)      was considered unrealistic and was revised to 18.
Indicator 7 :     Fault Index for 380 KV transmission lines
Value
quantitative or   6.8                       5.8                                8.36
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                  12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
                  Not achieved. The 380kV system faults were 44% above target in 2010.
Comments
                  However, major blackouts have not occurred in recent years, and newest data
(incl. %
                  shows progress. The indicator was revised as the original duration based
achievement)
                  indicator was difficult to measure.
Indicator 8 :     Fault Index for 154 KV transmission lines
Value
quantitative or   10.1                      8.5                                8.8
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                  12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments          Almost achieved. The 154kV system faults are slightly (3.5%) above the target
(incl. %          value. With the increased measures taken on e.g. replacing ceramic insulation
achievement)      with silicone insulation, the target could be achieved relatively soon.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Implementation of Market Management System.
                                          Contract
Value                                     implementation
(quantitative   0%                        progress: 30% -                 100%
or Qualitative)                           2007 60% - 2008
                                          100% - 2009
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        End of project target 100% achieved but somewhat behind the original schedule.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Transmission System Reinforcement.
                                          Contract
Value
                                          implementation
(quantitative   0%                                                        100%
                                          progress: 15% -
or Qualitative)
                                          2006 35% - 2007



                                                  iv
                                           60% - 2008 80% -
                                           2009
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   12/31/2009                     12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : SCADA/EMS expanded and upgraded.
                                          Contract
Value
                                          implementation
(quantitative   Systems need expansion.                                   100%
                                          progress: 30% -
or Qualitative)
                                          2007 100% - 2008
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        End of project target 100% achieved but somewhat behind the original schedule.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                           IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     05/31/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     01/04/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.31
  3     09/06/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     6.02
  4     06/26/2007          Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              8.62
  5     03/26/2008          Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            26.98
  6     03/05/2009          Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            34.54
  7     06/23/2009          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   35.48
  8     02/22/2010          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   40.48
  9     12/09/2010          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   66.15


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Addition of a Technical
                                                     Assistance component to
                                                     continue financing a Balancing
                                                     and Settlement System
 11/14/2007       N       S     MS           20.55
                                                     consultant contract initiated
                                                     under the NTGP and provide
                                                     TA and training on the
                                                     electricity market.



                                               v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design 1

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Energy Community of South East Europe (ECSEE) and the Athens Process Context

In the early 2000’s, the improvement of the performance of the energy sector was
identified as crucial to improve and sustain economic development in South East Europe
(SEE). The power supply situation was in 2004 expected to tighten and constrain
economic activity and affect the quality of life if not addressed with determined regional
action. Apart from Turkey, investment in power generation since the early 1990s had
been limited, with the average age of capacity in excess of thirty years. Significant
capacity additions and plant rehabilitations were projected to be required, along with
matching transmission and distribution system investments if demand were to be met and
power shortages and supply interruptions were to be avoided.

The SEE countries had acknowledged that solutions to these regional issues based on
isolated national markets were neither achievable nor desirable as a means to attempt to
close investment gaps and emerging demand and supply imbalances. The governments
of SEE countries and the European Commission (EC) had therefore signed “the Athens
Memorandum? in December 2003 in which they expressed their commitment to what
became the Energy Community2 when they signed a Treaty on October 25, 2005. The
Treaty became effective on July 1, 2006, formally establishing the Energy Community.

Since the early 1990s and in some cases even earlier, the Bank had supported individual
countries of SEE in their efforts to rehabilitate and restructure their power sectors through
policy dialogue, technical assistance and financing. The country knowledge deriving
from such support, and participation in the development of the Energy Community,
including regional trade strategy work, put the Bank in a strong position to provide
regional lending, policy advice and technical assistance to support the Energy
Community. The preparation of the APL program was a key component of the Bank’s
working partnership with the European Commission. The APL framework allows the
Bank to maintain a key position as an active and sustained supporter of the regional
power market and the sector reforms which underpin it. Individual operations are not
constrained by the pace of progress in the regional program, and projects can also be
added as demand emerges.



1
  Since APL2 and APL3 closed within 6 months of each other and were closely related, the same ICR main text is used in both the
APL2 and APL3 ICR, with a separate data sheet and relevant annexes for each project.

2
  Until June 2004, the program was called the South East Europe Regional Energy Market. The name was changed to the Energy
Community of South East Europe (ECSEE) in October 2004. ECSEE is used in the December 2004 Project Appraisal Document and
for all subsequent loans and credits approved under the regional ECSEE APL facility approved in January 2005. The final name, the
Energy Community, was formally adopted in October 2005, and the Energy Community was formally established in July 2006. This
ICR uses the name Energy Community except when referring to the ECSEE APL facility and related loans and credits.




                                                                1
The Energy Community is an integral element of the Contracting Parties’, Participants’
and the European Commission’s efforts for all states in South East Europe to have access
to stable and continuous energy supply which they regard as essential for economic
development and social stability. The creation of an area without internal frontiers for
energy contributes to economic and social progress and a high level of employment as
well as balanced and sustainable development. These higher level objectives are
expressed in the Treaty.

Turkish Context

At project appraisal in 2004, Turkey remained committed to the goals and principles of
the Athens Process and continued implementation of the key provisions of the Athens
Process. However, Turkey had not signed the Treaty owing to concerns emanating from
the fact that several issues in the Treaty are also key aspects of the Energy and
Environment Chapters of the Acquis Communautaire, which Turkey hoped to negotiate
separately as part of its negotiations for accession to the EU (the EU decided on October
3, 2005 to begin discussions with Turkey in this regard).

Turkey initially participated in the ECSEE-APL Program through the ECSEE-APL2
(hereinafter referred to as APL2) approved by the Board on April 4, 2005, having met the
original eligibility conditions of establishing and making operational an electricity sector
regulator and a transmission system operator. It was on the basis of Turkey’s continued
implementation of the substantive provisions of the 2003 Athens Memorandum, the
relevant EC Directive (2003/54/EC), its participation in the implementation mechanism,
and the expectation that Turkey would sign the Treaty that the Bank continued to provide
support to Turkey under the ECSEE-APL3 (hereinafter referred to as APL3), which was
approved by the Board on March 24, 2006.

By the early 2000’s the Government of Turkey had embarked upon a comprehensive
reform and restructuring program of the electricity sector in order to create a liberalized,
efficient and economic sector. This was initiated by the Electricity Market Law (Law No.
4628) promulgated in February 2001. The principles and goals of the reform program
defined by this Law are substantially in line with EC Directives (1996/92/EC and
2003/54/EC) concerning rules for the internal market for electricity. The Government’s
2004 Electricity Sector Reform and Privatization Strategy Paper further anchored and
solidified these efforts. By APL3 appraisal, Turkey had completed several major reform
actions, such as the restructuring of the sector (into a generating corporation EUAS, a
trading corporation TETAS, a transmission corporation TEIAS, a distribution corporation
TEDAS, and regional distribution companies), the establishment of an independent
regulatory framework, and introduction of retail competition. Turkey was preparing for
the introduction of a balancing and settlement system, and was also about to commence
the privatization of distribution.

The Country Assistance Strategy for fiscal years 2004 – 2007 stated that utility sector
reform continued to be a high priority and transformation of the electricity and gas
sectors to competitive, appropriately regulated, private energy markets was important to



                                             2
reduce cost and risks borne by the government. Indeed, at the time of both APL2 and
APL3 appraisals, the Bank had a deep engagement in Turkey’s energy sector with a
wide-ranging policy dialogue, and several projects under preparation and implementation.
The Bank was also providing technical assistance to the Government on electricity issues.
Further, the Bank was supporting Turkey’s market implementation and network
development initiatives through the National Transmission Grid Project (NTGP), which
supported the preparation of the balancing market and settlement regulations and the
tender specifications for the Market Management System (MMS).

APL2 supported Turkey in its power market liberalization program and investments in
the MMS, regional control centers and associated transmission infrastructure. APL3
continued the Bank’s support for the implementation of the internal market and regional
integration by financing investments in strengthening and expanding the transmission
network to reliably meet the growing electricity demand and upgrading the transmission
network in dense urban areas to minimize the risk to public safety posed by urban
encroachment on existing overhead lines. The APL Program is being continued in Turkey
through the APL6 project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The overall development objective of the ECSEE APL Program is the development of a
functioning regional electricity market in South East Europe and its integration into the
internal electricity market of the European Union, through the implementation of priority
investments supporting electricity market and power system operations in electricity
generation, transmission and distribution and technical assistance for
institutional/systems development and project preparation and implementation.

Table 1 summarizes the PDOs and outcome indicators of APL2 and APL3, respectively,
as presented in the PADs for the two projects.

                        PDO                                      Outcome Indicators
APL 2: The objective of the Project is to support the (1) Electricity markets in South-East
implementation of the investment programs of          Europe are liberalized in accordance with
TEIAS, including: (a) creation of a market            the ECSEE Treaty (including derogations
management system for the management of the           and subsequent modifications, if any) and
electricity market; (b) strengthening supervisory     a    regional electricity market           is
control and data acquisition/energy management        functioning;
system to enable TEIAS to operate more efficiently;   (2) APL2 projects are completed in
and (c) provision of transmission grid strengthening  Turkey and its electricity market and
and expansion for overall stability.                  power systems operate with the help of
                                                      these new investments.
APL3: To increase the safety, reliability, efficiency (1) APL3 projects are completed
and capacity of the bulk power transmission system successfully;
in Turkey and to improve market access for (2) The power transmission network in
consumers and suppliers of electricity.               Izmir and Istanbul operates reliably, safely
                                                      and efficiently.




                                                3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDOs of APL2 and APL3 were not revised. However, new PDO indicators were
added to both APL2 and APL3. The original outcome indicators of both APL2 and APL3
were at appraisal narrowly defined as being the completion and successful
implementation of the financed subprojects. It was therefore decided in 2008 that in order
to measure the impact of these projects, additional, more outcome-oriented indicators
should be used. Agreement was reached with Government and TEIAS to include the
following indicators to the results frameworks of the two projects:
    • Peak demand carried by system (GW)
    • Electricity transmitted (TWh)
    • Operating costs of transmission (US$/ GWh)
    • Electricity sold on the market as % of electricity Transmitted
    • Duration of all faults on system (number of hours) 3
    • Total accidents

Since the additions to the original indicators did not require a formal restructuring, these
were recorded through Aide Memoires and ISRs.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main direct project beneficiary of both APL2 and APL3 was TEIAS. Secondary
beneficiaries included TEDAS and the suppliers of electricity. Indirect beneficiaries
include end consumers in Turkey, in particular those in the Izmir and Istanbul regions,
who benefited from the improved and more reliable electricity supply.

1.5 Original Components

The overall ECSEE APL Program was designed to support priority investments and
technical assistance that enhance the ability of ECSEE Regional Members to effectively
participate in the regional electricity market. For Turkey to be able to contribute to the
creation of a regional electricity market in SEE and to be linked to and participate in it,
Turkey needed to, inter alia, create a functioning domestic market for electricity,
improve its transmission system monitoring and control mechanisms, and strengthen its
power transmission network. APL2 and APL3 and their project components were aligned
with these objectives and investment needs and comprised the following:

APL2 Components

Component 1: Creation of a Market Management System (MMS) for the management of
the electricity market in Turkey.



3
  This indicator was later further amended at TEIAS’ request to their standard fault index as monitoring of the indicator in its original
form proved problematic



                                                                    4
Component 2: Strengthening of the SCADA/EMS (supervisory control and data
acquisition/energy management system) so that TEIAS would be in a position to operate
its system more efficiently and to coordinate with other SEE systems operators in order to
meet overall stability and control requirements.
Component 3: Provision of grid strengthening and expansion for overall stability. This
included funding some of TEIAS sub-stations investments.

APL3 Components\

Component 1: Transmission Network Strengthening. This component entailed
construction of new Gas Insulate Switchgear (GIS) substations and a new 380 kV
underground cable to strengthen the transmission networks in Istanbul and Izmir. The
new GIS substations and underground cable would increase the capacity of the
transmission networks in the cities and are necessary to meet the new and growing
electricity demand in their local areas. The construction of the GIS substations and the
380 kV underground cable was necessary to strengthen the reliability and capacity of the
transmission networks in Istanbul and Izmir and would as a result provide the distribution
companies, eligible customers and competing energy producers with adequate and
reliable access to the local transmission grid and the future ECSEE regional wholesale
power markets.
Component 2: Urban Transmission Network Upgrading. This component involved
construction of underground cables to replace existing 154 kV overhead transmission
lines in densely populated areas of Istanbul and Izmir. The 154 kV overhead
transmission lines proposed for replacement with underground cables had been enveloped
in rapid urban expansion. The underground cable projects in the two cities included in
Component 2 would have positive impact on the operation of the transmission networks
and would ensure reliability of the energy supply to existing and future consumers.

1.6 Revised Components

APL2

Component 1 of APL2 was revised to include a Technical Assistance (TA) component to
enhance the capacity of electricity market participants to actively participate in the
market that was forthcoming, and to extend a Balancing and Settlement System (BSS)
consultancy contract. Both the TA and the BSS contract had been initiated under the
National Transmission Grid Project (NTGP) and it was important to continue their
implementation under APL2 as the implementation of the electricity market in Turkey
was taking longer than anticipated. These changes were approved by the Turkey Country
Director and the loan agreement was amended through a letter agreement on November
14, 2007. The Bank also separately provided an approval for the extension of the BSS
contract and its financing under APL 2. Components 2 and 3 of APL2 were not revised.
APL3

The components of APL3 were not revised.


                                            5
1.7 Other significant changes

APL2 and APL3 investments represent a time slice of a large, ongoing investment
program of TEIAS. Therefore, the investments identified during appraisal of both APL2
and APL3 were somewhat indicative and it was expected that they would likely change
during implementation due to reprioritization of investments over time. This need for
flexibility was incorporated into the projects’ design and reflected in the PADs; specific
subproject investments were not identified in the Loan Agreements. Indeed, the
subproject investments changed significantly during implementation in the case of both
APL2 and APL3. TEIAS prepared a justification for all changes to the subprojects which
were then reviewed and approved by the Bank.

Design and subprojects

APL2

Under APL2 Component 1 (MMS), a decision was made by TEIAS to improve the
existing balancing market system and to procure a day-ahead system only, rather than
acquire a completely new system. As noted above, a consultancy and technical assistance
contract was added to this component as well. Under Component 2 (SCADA/EMS),
TEIAS decided to drop the Energy Management System (EMS) sub-component of the
SCADA system; the EMS sub-component had been delayed significantly, and it is being
financed under APL6 currently under implementation. Consequently, under Component
3 (Transmission Network Strengthening), it was possible to finance more substations of
urgent priority as well as to acquire O&M equipment. Due to the changing priorities, one
of the substations originally planned to be financed under APL2 was not ultimately
financed.

APL3

Under APL3 Component 2 (Urban Transmission Network Upgrading), the financed
subprojects differ significantly from those originally set out in the PAD. Construction of
five of the eight pre-identified underground cables was not financed, and those
subprojects were replaced by higher priorities: the construction of an underground cable
at another location, an overhead transmission line, and purchase of 8 new transformers. In
addition, one of the pre-identified substations was not financed. It was consequently
possible to finance two relatively large substation investments under Component 1
(Transmission Network Strengthening) of APL3. One substation (held up by
archeological finds) and one underground cable started under APL3 will be completed
under APL 6.

See Annex 2 for more details on the changes in subprojects and outputs by component.




                                            6
Financing

Given the changes and reprioritizations outlined above which reflect the time slice nature
of APL2 and APL3 support, the allocations to components of both APL2 and APL3
changed from those envisaged at appraisal as summarized below.

                                                Appraisal (€ million) Actual (€ million)
APL2
Component 1(MMS)                              13.8                     4.5
Component 2 (SCADA/EMS)*                      17.9                     1.0
Component 3 (Grid Strengthening)              18.6                     44.8
                                        Total 50.3                     50.3
APL3
Component 1 (Transmission Network          38.3                 56
Strengthening)
Component 2 (Urban Transmission Network 86.4                    68.7
Upgrading)
                                    Total 124.7                 124.7
* EMS and parts of the SCADA work are being financed under APL6

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

APL2 and APL3 both financed a time slice of the same larger investment program of
TEIAS in the same sector and policy context. Therefore, the background analysis, design
choices and factors affecting implementation and outcomes were largely the same for
both APL2 and APL3 and are presented in the sections below in a unified manner, with
discussion of issues specific to either of the projects only where relevant.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of Background Analysis. APL2 and APL3 benefited from the innovative
and well prepared and designed ECSEE APL Program. The Bank’s country knowledge
and extensive engagement with Turkey in the energy sector as well as the Bank’s
participation in the development of the Energy Community provided a good basis for the
Bank’s cooperation with Turkey through lending, policy advice and technical assistance.
The use of the APL instrument gave the Bank the flexibility to respond to the changing
priorities of the Government and TEIAS. The regular monitoring and regional
benchmarking in the ECSEE process provided both peer support and peer incentives to
improve performance. The Bank’s Quality Assurance Group’s (QAG) review of regional
projects in October 2009 rated the quality of project design as Satisfactory and observed,
inter alia, that the design of the APL program had proven sound over time and that the
investments under APL3 were consistent with the Athens Treaty.

In addition, the background analysis done by the Bank in the context of the broader
energy sector program, including advisory services on electricity sector reform options,
the electricity market law, industry structure and the wholesale market, was used in the


                                            7
preparation of APL2 and APL3. Two specific lessons from this analysis were particularly
relevant for APL2 and APL3:

   •   Regional Markets require Strong National Market Operational Capabilities.
       Lessons from other regional electricity markets elsewhere were that to achieve
       progressive integration of energy markets required close attention to the design
       and operation of component national electricity markets. While Turkey’s market
       implementation was amongst the most advanced in the ECSEE regional group, it
       required support from the highly experienced market operators to implement its
       market management systems and to achieve effective operation of its national
       market. Accordingly APL2 initiated and APL3 project continued the close
       advisory involvement of an international Panel of Experts, established by the
       World Bank, on the market design and implementation process.

   •   Political Commitment and adequate financial support are key ingredients of
       successful reform programs. Ongoing reforms in Turkey confirmed the
       country’s abiding commitment to the regional initiative. APL2 and APL3 built on
       the political commitment of the Turkish Government to integrate with the
       European network and be an active participant in the implementation and
       operation of the ECSEE APL Program.

Project design. The PDOs of APL2 and APL3 were clear and aligned with the ECSEE
APL Program objectives, and were realistically and appropriately defined to be such that
each operation could be held accountable for achieving them. This is particularly evident
in APL2 for which the PDO is very specific. For APL3 the PDO was broader, but still
well within the scope and influence of the operation. Furthermore, the PDOs were fully in
line with the country’s key development objectives and important for Turkey to achieve
given the very rapid growth in electricity demand. However, the outcome indicators of
both APL2 and APL3 were initially output oriented (i.e. primarily tracking the
completion of subprojects without adequately monitoring their impact). This was
addressed, during implementation, by adding new, more outcome-oriented indicators.
The project components of both APL2 and APL3 were well defined in relation to meeting
the objectives and the factors that could be foreseen as influencing implementation –
including government commitment and policies, appointment of key staff, management
effectiveness – were within Government or TEIAS control. The project designs of both
APL2 and APL3 were overall relatively simple, but the market components of APL2 did
prove somewhat difficult to implement in the originally envisaged schedule, and, as a
reflection of the time slice nature of the supported investments, the final sub-projects
differed from those tentatively identified at appraisal. The capacity of TEIAS as the
implementing agency was also a constraint in particular in terms of retaining qualified
staff in certain areas of its operation, as discussed in the sections below.

Assessment of Risks. Overall, the risk analysis for both APL2 and APL3 was
adequately done based on the information available and sector circumstances at the time
of the appraisals. Potential risks to the ECSEE Program and the mitigating factors were
identified as follows: (a) possible controversy over the pace of liberalization of the
market, which was expected to be mitigated by provisions in the Energy Community


                                           8
Treaty; this risk did not materialize in Turkey to any significant degree; (b) development
of new generation capacity where individual countries may propose projects that are not
necessarily optimal choices in the regional context; this was expected to be mitigated by
the Energy Community implementation mechanism and also did not materialize for
projects in Turkey; (c) the risk of delays in upgrading and implementing environmental
legislation in countries that do not have short-term prospects of EU accession; this risk
was to be mitigated by the provisions of the Treaty that require countries to comply with
the relevant EC standards and by assistance from the international community; Turkey
has implemented significant environmental legislation and the EU accession Acquis
Communautaire chapter on environment is under negotiation; (d) the fundamental risk
that the SEE region might not be able to meet the growing demand for electricity; the
Energy Community program was regarded as the best mitigation for this risk, which
could threaten the economic growth prospects and affect the quality of life in the region;
this risk was expected to materialize in Turkey, but as the financial crisis temporarily
slowed down growth in electricity demand the expected power supply shortage did not
occur, and the increased investment by the private sector in particular in new generation
capacity in recent years has so far enabled the rapidly growing electricity demand to be
met; (e) the risk that in a liberalized market some uncompetitive plants may be forced to
close and some less reliable customers may end up paying more for their electricity as
generators prefer to sell to more creditworthy clients; this was expected to be mitigated
by the countries who would manage the initial power contracting process; this risk did
not materialize in Turkey.

The risk analysis specific to the APL2 investment projects (i.e. substations under
Component 3) stated that the investments used proven designs and were not expected to
contain any particular risks or controversial aspects. This has indeed proven to be the
case. TEIAS’ implementation capacity with regard to financial management and controls
was correctly identified as a substantial risk in the APL2 PAD (see section 2.4). However,
it appears that the risks related to the implementation capacity of TEIAS in other
departments, in particular in relation to the market elements, were somewhat
underestimated or not explicitly identified at APL2 appraisal. Taking into account the
experiences from implementation of APL2 as well as the evolving electricity sector in
Turkey, the risk analysis of APL3 identified the following key risks and mitigating
factors:
(a) Delays by Municipalities in issuance of permits for construction/installation
    work. TEIAS had confirmed that they would obtain the necessary permits before
    the construction contracts were awarded. Given that the projects bring direct
    benefits to the municipalities it was expected that the process would be relatively
    smooth. This risk did not materialize in any significant way.
(b) TEIAS Implementation Capacity. TEIAS had scaled up its investment program
    and implemented new systems and procedures as part of the market implementation.
    With a de-facto restriction on hiring new staff, TEIAS’ implementation capacity was
    expected to be stretched despite it having been able to hire some new staff for land
    acquisition, one critical area of TEIAS operations. This risk was expected to be
    mitigated to some extent by utilizing supply and installation contracts and the
    experience TEIAS had gained in the implementation of similar projects. However,


                                            9
    despite the mitigating factors, TEIAS’s ability to attract and retain qualified staff has
    been a constraint.
(c) Non-payment of electricity bills. Although TEIAS’ collection efficiency from
    EUAS had improved, it was still considered a moderate-to-high risk, in particular
    since the problem of non-payment of bills started with TEDAS not being able to
    collect all its bills, which then percolated up the chain of energy state owned
    enterprises. While TEIAS had managed to finance all its investments and meet its
    operating and debt servicing requirements, any decline in collection efficiency was
    expected to result in a cash constraint. Although the non-payment of bills became a
    serious concern, the problems were addressed and the situation has improved. These
    issues are discussed in the sections below.

2.2 Implementation

The implementation of the substations, cables and over-head line investments under
APL2 and APL3 was satisfactory with the fairly routine nature of the investments, the
familiarity of TEIAS with working with the Bank, and the flexibility and continuity of
the APL instrument contributing to the good progress. Indeed, both the APL2 and APL3
mid-term reviews and the QAG 2009 review of APL3 noted that implementation progress
was satisfactory with good commitment and disbursement rates (ahead of schedule in the
case of APL3) and with TEIAS expected to meet performance targets.

Implementation of the market components of APL2 can be rated as moderately
satisfactory. Their implementation was initially delayed by the preparation of the
complicated and technically challenging bidding documents, which took longer than
expected, and by TEIAS’ understandable desire to wait for EMRA to issue market
regulations before completing the design of the market management system. Although
the APL2 mid-term review noted that the market component was moving well after initial
delays, the bankruptcy of one of the contactors later during implementation caused
further delays. As a consequence, some of the work on the market management system
under APL2 is only now being completed and is expected to be brought into routine
operation by mid-2011. At the same time, the restructuring of Component 1 of APL2 to
include technical assistance and training of staff and market participants contributed to
the overall successful implementation of APL2, and ultimately its market components as
well.

TEIAS’ financial situation was noted by both the APL3 mid-term review and the 2009
QAG review as an area of serious concern. TEIAS’ cash flow position deteriorated
rapidly in 2008 as a result of inadequate bill payment by its consumers, TETAS and
EUAS. 4 This lead to a situation where TEIAS was no longer in compliance with the



4
  The main problem was the non-payment in the electricity balancing market, and TEIAS’ inability to transfer delay
payments to the state owned power generators. In addition, non-payments increased rapidly even outside the market
with inadequate bill payment by TEDAS to TETAS and EUAS. In turn, TETAS and EUAS did not pay in full to either
the market or TEIAS for transmission services.




                                                       10
APL2 and APL3 self-financing ratio covenant and where the cash flow situation was
beginning to impact TEIAS’ ability to finance its investment program and make debt
servicing payments. Consequently, the Undersecretariat of Treasury had to step in during
early 2009 to enable TEIAS to pay its repayment and interest obligations to the Bank.
Treasury’s debt management procedures require that any agency requiring Treasury
payment guarantee should be current on all its debt servicing over the past 24 months.
For the agencies which do not fulfill this requirement, Treasury directly borrows and
onlends to the agencies. Therefore for APL6, Treasury borrowed the loan directly and
onlent it to TEIAS. A further problem has been that TEIAS' auditors have been unwilling
to issue an opinion on its annual audits leading to non compliance with another financial
covenant (see section 2.4 for additional discussion).

However, since 2009 TEIAS’s financial situation has improved dramatically and TEIAS
has returned to compliance with the self-financing ratio covenant. Treasury allowed
TEIAS to charge interest payments on any outstanding receivables between public sector
companies. This enabled TEIAS to pass on the cost of delayed payments to the state
owned power companies, and collect its receivables (dating as far back as 2003) from the
generators, TETAS and TEDAS much more efficiently. Consequently, the company
posted a substantial operating profit in 2009 and 2010. Also, legislation was adopted in
early 2011 to net-out receivables and payables between public sector energy companies,
which will also significantly reduce the receivables of TEIAS. See Annex 3 for a detailed
financial analysis.

TEIAS implementation capacity, notably due its challenge of retaining qualified staff, has
had an adverse impact on the implementation of APL2 and APL3, and on internal
coordination within TEIAS itself. The staffing situation did nonetheless improve in
certain areas, e.g. land acquisition (see below), and coordination within TEIAS appears to
have improved, particularly after the appointment of the in 2010 General Manager (a
position that was not officially filled for a considerable amount of time).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

APL2 and APL3 benefited from the comprehensive coordination and implementation
apex mechanism established for the development of the Energy Community during the
preparation of the ECSEE APL facility and further strengthened in accordance with the
Treaty. ECSEE’s Secretariat has provided an institutional mechanism for the regular
monitoring of the countries’ performance against agreed benchmarks. The Bank
continued to participate in the Athens process including the Forum during APL2 and
APL3 and also provided implementation support for the APL projects in the other SEE
countries.

At the APL2 and APL3 project level, as noted in Section 1.3, the original indicators used
to monitor progress toward PDOs were deemed inadequate and indicators that are more
specific, outcome-oriented and easier to monitor were added during implementation.
After the addition of such indicators, data has been collected by TEIAS in a reasonably
timely manner. The data is monitored by the various departments of TEIAS and


                                           11
consolidated by the project coordination unit. This was facilitated by the fact that the
monitored data is being collected by TEIAS as part of its normal day to day operations
and is of high relevance for TEIAS’ own evaluation of progress made, helping it
continuously improve the capacity and performance of its transmission system and the
market. Given these factors, the monitoring and evaluation system is also very likely to
be sustained beyond the APL2 and APL3 implementation periods.

The improvement of the results framework was a noteworthy achievement of project
implementation. Nevertheless, some methodological shortcomings in the system fault and
accident indicators collected for the transmission system as a whole make it difficult to
assess the exact impact of APL2 and APL3 on the indicator values. Due to the formula
used to calculate the fault indices, the indicator values on faults go down if the
transmission network length increases, making it somewhat difficult to observe trends in
faults over time. The fault indicators may also be misleading if they are compared with
other countries. Current TEIAS definitions make a distinction between permanent faults
(service interruptions requiring repair or replacement of equipment) and temporary faults
(everything else), but there are inadequate records and reports on the origins and duration
of the faults. The insufficient data prevents addressing the sources of faults suitably and
precisely evaluating and benchmarking the power system’s performance. TEIAS has
agreed to review this and modify their monitoring systems as appropriate. Also, the
specific data on the indicator on number of accidents does not differentiate between
serious and less serious incidents, as an absolutely number target (rather than a relative
value) does not account for the growth in the size of the TEIAS transmission system, and
may also be influenced by how well staff is trained and encouraged to monitor and report
accidents.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguard compliance. The ECSEE APL Program’s overall
environmental impact is considered positive as it has accelerated the introduction of EU-
compatible environmental legislation and standards in the SEE region. In line with the
Bank practice at the time, APL2 was assigned an environmental assessment category of
Financial Intermediary (FI) since not all of the subprojects were fully identified at
appraisal due to the time-slice nature of the investments. By the time of the APL3
appraisal the Bank’s categorization practice had changed, and APL3 was assigned
Category B for Environmental Assessment even though not all subprojects were
identified. The Environmental Management Framework (EMF) developed by TEIAS
during preparation of APL2, and which was utilized for both projects, gives guidance on
the requirements of both the Turkish Environmental Impact Regulation and the relevant
WB Operational Policies.

TEIAS implemented the requirements of the subproject EMPs in a satisfactory manner.
All APL2 and APL3 subprojects were classified as Category B and the EMPs prepared
by TEIAS were sent for prior review to the Bank. The approved EMPs were added to the
Bidding Documents and TEIAS provided the awarded contractors supplementary
information on the practical implementation of the EMP. Compliance with the EMPs was



                                            12
continuously monitored by an independent environmental firm and the reports were
shared with the World Bank on a quarterly basis, constituting a good practice example.
Moreover, TEIAS Group Directorates are responsible for supervision of construction
works, including the EMP implementation at the site. As a result, it can be said that
EMPs were strictly followed and monitored.             The only issue raised during
implementation was the finding of archeologically important artifacts at the construction
site of Yenikapi substation in 2008. As per the EMP, the mitigation measures defined for
‘chance finds’ were strictly followed. After the necessary archaeological works were
completed, permission for continuing the construction works was given.

Land acquisition: Land acquisition impacts in APL2 and APL3 were limited to
transmission tower footprints, agreements on rights-of-way for distribution line
alignments, and land for sub-stations. Sub-stations were typically sited on government
land, although in some cases private land was acquired for sub-station expansions.
Management and mitigation of land acquisition impacts was undertaken in line with
Turkish law and the Land Acquisition Management Framework (LAMF) prepared for the
projects. The LAMF provided for a ‘Summary Report of Land Acquisition Activities’ to
be submitted as part of the bi-annual project progress reporting to the World Bank.
However, the LAMF did not specify the content or information requirements needed to
meet OP4.12 resettlement plan criteria, and did not require prior Bank review and
approval of resettlement plans. During project implementation, the Bank provided the
client with written recommendations for follow-up, including the use of a Social Audit
Reporting format for those projects where land acquisition was carried out using Turkish
expropriation law, to verify if all land acquisition-related issues were resolved in a
manner satisfactory to the World Bank’s resettlement policy. The Social Audit reports
have been prepared, reviewed by the Bank and disclosed publically. Bank supervision
visits undertaken to clarify the situation indicated that no one was significantly impacted
by land acquisition as a result of the projects.

TEIAS has demonstrated its willingness to improve implementation performance and has
hired additional safeguard staff for land acquisition activities. Capacity building of these
staff will be important to enhance implementation performance. Experience from APL 2
and 3 resulted in the LAMF for APL6 being revised to strengthen documentation,
reporting and monitoring effectiveness in order to ensure full consistency with OP 4.12
requirements.

Fiduciary compliance. TEIAS has an acceptable financial management system for
projects and control procedures were in place during implementation. The financial
monitoring reports for APL2 and APL3 were received on time and the projects received
unqualified audit reports for 2009 and the previous years. Staffing of the Financial
Affairs Department is currently largely adequate. However, TEIAS did not meet the
covenant on the ERP included in both APL2 and APL3. Although the ERP
implementation is almost complete, it cannot be fully finalized as the contractor is
bankrupt. TEIAS has attempted to renegotiate the contract but the ERP is not expected to
become functional in the short-term and TEIAS’ financial management software
continues to be outdated and not responsive to TEIAS’ needs.



                                            13
TEIAS has for the last several years received a disclaimer opinion in the audit report for
the entity’s financial statements. The main issue relates to the lack of information on
ownership of assets dating back to the time when parts of the system were owned by
municipalities or by one of TEIAS’ predecessors, i.e. TEK or TEAS. A way to resolve
this issue would be for TEIAS to increase its capacity on this specific issue (in terms of
qualified staff as well as technical expertise in this area) and to equip itself with
information systems (ERP or alternative software) that would support updating the
registries. In order to address these shortcomings, APL 6 includes a technical assistance
component aimed at improving the reliability and quality of TEIAS’ financial statements.
TEIAS has agreed to prepare a financial management manual for Bank-financed projects.

Procurement. TEIAS complied with Bank procurement policies and guidelines in a
satisfactory manner, and no significant issues were encountered. The procurement of
Components 1 and 2 of APL2 took longer than expected due to the complex nature of the
required services, bidding documentation, and the delays caused by the developing
market regulations. In particular for the underground cable and GIS substation sub-
projects, Bank involvement helped TEIAS develop good quality bidding documentation
in English, with appropriate technical specifications that have been useful for TEIAS
beyond Bank financed investments. However, in the last 2-3 years, there has generally
been a low level of interest from firms to participate in tenders for transmission GIS
substation and cable projects. The lack of interest from firms was most likely caused by
the inordinate increase in worldwide demand for generation and transmission equipment.
This issue was discussed between the Bank and TEIAS in particular in the context of GIS
substation procurement. The Bank advised TEIAS to not restrict bidders only to GIS
substation manufacturers and to also invite qualified contractors and suppliers to bid in
the procurement of GIS sub-stations under APL6. This approach has indeed lead to an
increase in the number of bids received.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Both the physical and systems investments made under APL2 and APL3 are high priority
for TEIAS and are expected to be maintained in a sustainable manner over time. The
relevant operational departments of TEIAS have taken over the operation and
maintenance of the market system, substations, cables and over-head transmission line
financed by APL2 and APL3. The components of APL6 continue and complement the
activities financed by APL2 and APL3, helping to ensure the continuity and sustainability
of the investments made and measures taken thus far and transition to the post-
completion phase. The environmental procedures used under APL2 and APL3 as well as
monitoring of several of the indicators will also be continued under APL6, providing
another measure of operational and institutional continuity and sustainability, and a way
to continue monitoring and evaluating performance in the future. The supervision of
APL6 will provide an opportunity for the Bank to further discuss and monitor the post-
completion operation of the investments made under APL2 and APL3.




                                           14
While staffing in the relevant departments of TEIAS is currently largely adequate and
operational budgets are not a significant constraint, the ability to retain sufficient highly
skilled staff remains the main short term risk to the post-completion phase operation and
institutional capacity in an environment of competition with the private sector for such
staff. Continuing to improve TEIAS’ ability to operate efficiently will also be important
for long term sustainability of the results achieved.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The ECSEE APL Program and the APL2 and APL3 project objectives and design remain
appropriate and highly relevant for Turkey’s power sector reforms and its integration to
the SEE and European markets. Policy and market reforms and investments supported by
the APL2 and APL3 projects were implemented in a satisfactory manner and provided
significant support to the Government energy sector reforms and TEIAS’ investment
program aimed at increasing the safety, reliability, efficiency and capacity of the bulk
power transmission system. The project objectives also remain relevant for the Country
Assistance Strategy, under which the projects were prepared, and the 2008-11 Country
Partnership Strategy, which reflects the Government’s 9th National Development Plan
and supported Government’s efforts on reliable and efficient energy supply and on
sustainable macroeconomic stability and economic growth.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDOs of APL2 and APL3 were achieved in a satisfactory manner. The projects made
significant contributions to the investment program of TEIAS, and in particular to those
related to the market management system and SCADA, despite the fact that their
implementation took longer than anticipated and were still being completed at the time of
this ICR. Further strengthening and upgrades of those systems are expected to be partly
financed under APL6.

As evidenced by the outputs (see Annex 2 for details), the PDO objectives related to
strengthening and expansion of the transmission grid and increasing its
stability/reliability and capacity were also achieved and the APL2 and APL3 investments
in the substations, transmission lines and underground cables made a significant
contribution to the achievement of the objectives. The investments in GIS substations,
monitoring equipment, cables and the over-head transmission line were targeted at
geographic and power system areas experiencing rapid growth in load and demand, and
where TEIAS’ analysis showed that the reliability of the system was or would be at risk
given these factors. Similarly, the introduction of the electricity market has increased the
stability of the system with no major blackouts experienced since its introduction. The
transmission capacity of TEIAS’ system has significantly increased through the
investments in the 380kV and 154kV GIS substations, 380kv and 154kV underground
cables and the 380 kV over-head transmission line. APL2 and APL3 increased the
transmission capacity at the substations in total by 3900MVA at critically important,



                                             15
highly prioritized substations. It is particularly noteworthy that the investments in the
substations not only increased TEIAS’ total transformer capacity by over 4% but did so
mostly in urban areas, requiring investment in the compact but more costly GIS
substation technology.

Furthermore, the construction of a total of 33.6 km of underground cables in rapidly
growing urban areas (making over-head cables an unviable option) such as the Istanbul
region, was financed, significantly increasing the safety, capacity and reliability of the
system in the subproject regions. Similarly, the 159.5 km over-head transmission line
created a vital connection between South Marmara and Western Anatolia Regions,
resulting in an enhancement of system reliability in the region.

As summarized in the table below and as detailed out in the project Data Sheet, the
satisfactory rating for achievement of the PDOs is also substantiated by the projects
having met or exceeded the outcome indicator target values for completion of
investments, peak demand carried by the system, electricity transmitted, and share of
electricity sold in the market, and progress being made towards meeting the target values
for the two fault index indicators. Growth in TEAIS operations and energy demand
provide background for the operating costs remaining higher than the indicator target,
and methodological shortcomings in the indicator itself may have contributed to the total
accidents number remaining higher than targeted. It should be noted that the size of
APL2 and APL3 investments in the transmission infrastructure are nonetheless relatively
small compared to the overall investment program of TEIAS, making it difficult to assess
exactly the quantitative contribution of APL2 and APL3 transmission infrastructure
investments to meeting the target values of the outcome indicators.

        Indicator Description                              Comments
                                       APL2 projects are substantially completed and
APL2 and APL3 projects are             APL3 projects are completed (with the Yenikapi
completed.                             substation under construction, having been
                                       delayed by an archeological chance finding).
                                       End of project target was achieved (at108% of
Peak demand carried by system (GW)
                                       target value).
                                       End of project target was achieved (at 109% of
Electricity transmitted (TWh)
                                       target value).
                                       The operating costs remain higher than the
Operating costs of transmissions       targeted value mainly due to increased staff costs
(US$/GWh)                              and costs for other ancillary services as TEIAS
                                       has grown in parallel to growing energy demand.
Electricity sold on the market as % of End of project target was achieved (at 132% of
electricity transmitted                target value).
                                       Total number of accidents remains above target
                                       by 22%. However, the indicator does not
Total accidents                        differentiate between serious and less serious
                                       accidents or, as an absolute target number, take
                                       into account the growth in the size of the


                                           16
                                        transmission system. Better reporting may also be
                                        a contributing factor to the indicator value
                                        remaining above the target value.
                                        The 380kV system faults have varied from year
                                        to year and were 44% above target in 2010.
                                        However, major blackouts have not occurred in
Fault index on 380 kV system
                                        the last few years, and most recent data shows
                                        progress due to measures to add insulation on
                                        critical lines to e.g. avoid faults caused by birds.
                                        End of project target was almost achieved (at
                                        3.5% above the target value). With the increased
Fault index on 154 kV system            measures taken on e.g. replacing ceramic
                                        insulation with silicone insulation, the target
                                        could be achieved relatively soon.


3.3 Efficiency

The financing provided by APL2 and APL3 was designed to fund a time slice of the
transmission investment program of TEIAS. Thus, the cost/benefit calculations were
done on the total transmission investment program of TEIAS, not just Bank financing.
The positive Net Present Values (NPV) and economic rates of return (ERR) as well as the
outcome indicator values demonstrate that the costs involved in achieving APL2 and
APL3 objectives were reasonable and that the investments represent “value for money?.

The investment program of TEIAS was anticipated to be US$1.1 billion between 2005
and 2009 in the APL2 PAD and US$1.65 billion between 2006 and 2012 in the APL3
PAD. The APL2 PAD economic analysis yielded a base case real ERR of 14% with
ERRs of between 7% and 17% in the low demand growth (5%/year) and high demand
growth cases (9%/year) respectively. The NPV discounted at 10% is US$225 Million in
the base case and US$-160 million and US$500 million under the low and high demand
growth scenarios, respectively. The APL3 PAD analysis yielded an ERR of 18% in the
base case and 12% in the low demand case, and NPVs of US$ 711 million and US$159
million under base case (8.3%/year) demand growth and low (6.3%/year) demand growth
scenarios, respectively.

Although TEIAS has invested almost 30% more than anticipated in the APL2 PAD and
20% more than anticipated in the APL3 PAD, the transmission tariff has been enough to
cover the costs. Thus, following the PAD approach and assumptions (other than for
updated tariff and operating and maintenance costs) results in NPVs very similar to those
in the PADs.

However, the economic benefits from expanding the transmission system are
substantially higher than the transmission tariff charges. Therefore, in addition to the
PAD base case approach, an alternative approach was used in this ICR to calculate the
benefit of the entire investment project. Instead of the transmission tariff, the additional


                                            17
transmission service is valued as the difference between the incremental cost of building
small single cycle gas fired generating plants to serve local demand and supplying this
demand through the grid using a new coal fired power plant with flue gas desulfurization
– currently the least cost large new fossil plant type in Turkey. This difference is 0.9 Euro
cents/kWh. This alternative approach results in higher NPVs (around US$6-7 billion and
around US$8 billion using the APL2 and APL3 assumptions, respectively) and ERRs
(approximately 40% and 50%, respectively) than the values in the PADs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcomes are rated as satisfactory for both APL2 and APL3 based on the
following: (1) as discussed in section 3.1, project development objectives and design
remain appropriate and highly relevant for Turkey’s power sector reforms and its
integration to the SEE and European markets, as well as in the context of the Country
Partnership Strategy between Turkey and the Bank, and the Government’s National
Development Plan; (2) as noted in section 3.2., project development objectives have been
achieved as evidenced by the outcome indicators (see also Annex 2 for details on outputs)
through the investments to the market management and SCADA systems and to the
strengthening and expansion of the transmission system, notably in rapidly growing
urban areas; (3) APL2 components were substantially completed and APL3 was
disbursed ahead of schedule with all investment projects completed (see Annex 2 for
details on outputs) with the exception of one substation that was delayed by archeological
finds (APL6 will be used to complete the substation); (4) APL2 and APL3 are projected
to yield attractive rates of return of 40% and 50%, respectively, as shown in the economic
analysis summarized in section 3.3 and included in full in Annex 3; and (5) the project is
sustainable and its priority in Turkey's power system remains high with the continued
rapid growth in Turkey’s energy sector, including rapid increase in renewable energy
generation capacity. The shortcomings in the outcomes relate to delay in the
implementation of APL2 market components and the fact that some outcome indicator
targets were not achieved (possibly partly due to methodological shortcomings in the
system faults and accident indicators as discussed in sections 2.3 and 3.2 above).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Electricity consumers in Turkey benefit from a more cost-effective and efficient power
supply facilitated by the projects, which has a positive impact on economic and social
development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Bank’s engagement with TEIAS and the Government in the energy sector over many
years (through a comprehensive approach that included the NTGP, the three APL
installments, other investment lending, the DPL series, policy dialogue, and technical



                                             18
assistance) has significantly contributed to the operational and institutional capacity of
TEIAS and the energy sector as a whole. Several TEIAS departments, including those
responsible for the market, planning, and environmental issues have benefited from the
cooperation with the Bank in terms of increased capacity or standards for economic
analysis, feasibility studies, procurement documentation, environmental management and
land acquisition. The Bank directly provided or arranged for a broad range of training,
institutional strengthening and capacity building to TEIAS and other energy market
participants, funded by both APL2 and APL3 as well as other sources (ESMAP and other
trust funds, Bank budget etc.). For example:

   •   The Panel of Experts provided both general and targeted advice to TEIAS and the
       Government on electricity sector reform, regulation, privatization and market
       design.
   •   The market management system and control components of APL2, an area
       somewhat new to TEIAS, were accompanied by significant technical assistance
       that trained the staff and strengthened the institutional and other capacity of the
       market operator and market participants.
   •   Peer visits and study tours to and from Turkey to Romania and Brazil were
       arranged, enabling TEIAS to learn from other countries’ experiences on e.g.
       market operation and splitting, system optimization and integration of wind and
       other renewable energy sources to the grid.
   •   TEIAS has an environmental team which is successfully following the EMFs and
       working cooperatively with the Bank. The team is participating in environmental
       safeguard training sessions of the Bank and has strengthened its performance
       based on feedback from Bank safeguard specialists through EMP reviews and
       regular supervision missions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

The Balancing and Settlement Mechanism in the Turkish electricity market commenced
operations in August 2006, and though it was meant to be a market for imbalances, it
evolved very quickly into a de-facto spot market with over 26% of all electricity
transacted in this market in 2010. After the introduction of the market, private generators
were able to attract much better prices for their electricity, triggering a significant
increase in supply which helped improve the stability of the system and the energy
security of the country as a whole. Furthermore, the market provided a profitable, viable
off-take mechanism for renewable energy which otherwise had been struggling to find
viable buyers. Prior to the introduction of the market as an alternative, renewable energy
generators often hesitated to sell to the host distribution company since many of the
distribution companies were not on a financially sound standing.

The market system and technical assistance components of APL2 made it more feasible
to implement the wholesale market in a short time, and the power sector dialogue
between the Bank, the Turkish Government and TEIAS allowed the Bank to provide its
advice on its design and implementation. Furthermore, the Panel of Experts advised the



                                            19
Government and TEIAS on the wholesale market design and helped create transparent
market rules.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible/Low

From the point of view of the overall ECSEE APL Program, the risk that the
contributions made by Turkey to meeting its objectives would be at risk is very low.
While Turkey has not signed the Energy Community Treaty it remains committed to its
objectives and the Government has implemented many energy sector reforms that are
directly relevant to the Energy Community objectives. A review of Turkey’s progress
relative to the requirements of the Treaty conducted by the Bank in the context of the
APL6 preparation concluded that (a) if Turkey were to sign the Treaty, it would be in
compliance at least at the same level, if not above, other signatories and (b) in practical
terms the key elements of the Treaty required for the development of the electricity
market have been substantially met by Turkey.

As noted in Section 2.5 above, the subprojects financed by APL2 and APL3 are being
operated and maintained by TEIAS relevant operational departments, and the risk that the
outcomes would not be maintained is low. TEIAS is implementing an extensive
investment program, largely financed from TEIAS’s budget appropriations, which will
further support both ECSEE APL Program as well as APL2 and APL2 PDOs and the
Energy Community objectives.

The QAG reviewed the APL3 project in October 2009 and made the following comment
on the overall risk to the development objective: “While bill collection and issuance of an
audit opinion remain project issues which need to be addressed, the risks of this project
not achieving its Regional Program or Project DOs concerning the evolution of the
power market in Turkey are considered moderate.? Since the QAG review, TEIAS ability
to collect its bills and its overall financial condition have improved rapidly. However, the
issues related to the audit opinion remain. The main uncertainties over the longer term
relate to TEIAS’ ability to operate more commercially, retain qualified staff, and continue
its investment program in an effective manner to meet the rapidly growing electricity
demand, in particular in certain regions of the country. TEIAS will also need to meet the
expectations and needs of electricity distributors and generators, both of which are being
or are planned to be largely privatized.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank identified, prepared and appraised APL2 and APL3 in the broader policy
context of the Energy Community, Turkey’s Electricity Sector Reform and Privatization



                                            20
Strategy Paper and the Country Assistance Strategy, and building on the solid
background analysis and criteria of the ECSEE APL Program. The Bank also mobilized
a team with all necessary skills including specialists in electricity markets, utilities,
engineering, procurement, environment, and finance/financial management. The team
included several staff with long experience in the energy, finance/financial management
and environment sectors in Turkey. The combination of solid skills and experience
enabled the Bank to develop a good working relationship with TEIAS, other energy
sector agencies and government officials and effectively contribute to the high quality
project. The Bank’s analytical work and the Panel of Experts provided valuable policy
advice to the Government, including on electricity market reform, both during appraisal
and implementation. However, both the Bank and the borrower did somewhat
underestimate during preparation the complexity (while overestimating the investment
cost) of procuring and implementing the Strengthening of the National Load Dispatch
System and Market Management System components of APL2. Also, as noted above,
the original outcome indicators were later deemed inadequate and new outcome oriented
indicators needed to be added. Given these issues, Bank performance during
identification, preparation and appraisal of the APL2 and APL3 projects is rated as
moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
 Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank was actively involved in Turkey’s energy reform process throughout the
projects’ implementation period through policy dialogue, development policy lending and
implementation support for other ongoing energy operations.

The Bank was particularly effective in integrating the implementation support for these
projects with other efforts in Turkey, enabling frequent dialogue with TEIAS and ability
to respond to events in a timely fashion. The Bank provided implementation support for
the APL2 and APL3 projects regularly during 2006-2010. All implementation support
missions and some follow-up visits were jointly conducted with TEIAS and other
relevant counterparts, and included both Bank Turkey country office and headquarters
staff. Country office staff interacted with TEIAS and other Government counterparts on
a regular basis, allowing to maintain a constant dialogue, and to jointly address daily
operational issues. The intensive and continuous implementation support provided by the
Bank helped ensure timely and pro-active identification of potential problems and the
identification of possible solutions, jointly with the borrower. Effective project
implementation support was helped by the fact that the Task Team Leader at preparation
is now the Sector Manager for the Sector Management Unit, the current Task Team
Leader was part of the preparation team, and much of the core team remained largely
unchanged throughout the implementation phase.

However, the QAG review of APL3 in 2009 noted the following: “Although institutional
financial issues seem to have been encountered for several years, the IP rating in all ISRs
for all items has been "S" until ISR #4, and the mention of MS was only made in ISR #5 of
July 2009. In the panel's view they should have been MS at end FY 08 and end FY 09 as



                                            21
the problems were ongoing for a while, and led to non compliance of covenants.? This
ICR agrees with the QAG panels assessment on this issue. Also, the Board was informed
of the addition of the technical assistance component to APL2 only ex-post in 2009
along with several other projects in a similar situation, and the agreement to add new
indicators was not formalized through changes to the legal agreements. Despite these
issues and given the Bank’s t strong and well-rooted dialogue with the Government and
TEIAS on sector reform issues and proactive approach towards resolving issues related to
TEIAS’ financial status, this ICR rates the overall quality of supervision as Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory based on the moderately
satisfactory performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project,
and satisfactory project implementation support.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Turkey remains committed to the goals, principles and key provisions of the Athens
Process. The Government has and continues to implement a comprehensive electricity
sector reform program including vertical unbundling of the sector, establishment of an
independent regulatory framework, introduction of retail competition, introduction of the
market, and privatization of distribution. Privatization of generation is expected to start
during 2011, and there are active plans to separate the market operator from TEIAS to
create an independent entity. The speed and depth of the reforms have been impressive.

However, some of the market regulations could have been implemented faster, and the
Government was somewhat slow in addressing the bill payment issues leading to TEIAS’
financial problems during 2008 and 2009 that had an adverse effect on the market. The
budgets provisioned for TEIAS for its operating and investment costs, while an issue
earlier, have in the recent years been adequate. The currently used three year budget
planning process is also an improvement compared to the earlier yearly budgeting.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Implementing Agency’s performance is rated as satisfactory. TEIAS has performed
very well taking into account the significant challenges of the very rapidly evolving
electricity sector and related regulations, and its limited ability to increase and/or retain
qualified staffing. The project coordination unit originally established under the NTGP
continued its operation under APL2 and APL3, making coordination and cooperation
within TEIAS and between TEIAS, the Bank and the Government efficient. Furthermore,



                                             22
TEIAS implemented all requirements related to Bank safeguard and fiduciary policies in
a satisfactory manner. In fact, the implementation and monitoring of EMPs can be
deemed a good practice example. Quarterly progress reporting on implementation from
TEIAS has also been timely and comprehensive. The shortcomings in meeting the
financial covenant on the ERP and the continued inability of TEIAS to obtain unqualified
entity level audit opinions did not have any direct impact on the implementation of the
projects or achievement of the development objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Borrower performance is assessed as satisfactory based on the satisfactory
performance of both the Government and the Implementing Agency.

6. Lessons Learned

Several broad lessons learned from the overall ECSEE APL Program contained in the
2009 QAG reviews also apply to Turkey and the APL2 and APL3 projects and can be
summarized as follows:

   •   Analyze and put in place critical program level conditions and design
       elements for success when designing and implementing programmatic
       operations. The regional ECSEE APL program has been a success due to (i) the
       underlying Treaty framework, apex institutions, and leadership and monitoring at
       the program level; (ii) a flexible project design and (iii) pro-activity and
       continuity among Bank staff and success in obtaining outside funds to support the
       agenda. However, these conditions may not work or be critical in all cases.
   •   Upfront approval of an APL facility can help solidify both Bank and client
       commitment and cooperation around a sectoral and/or regional agenda.
       While the APL instrument offered little streamlining in processing of individual
       operations, the upfront approval of the US$ 1 billion APL facility provided strong
       evidence of Bank commitment and helped increase the credibility of the Energy
       Community ahead of the signing and effectiveness of the Treaty.
   •   Creating a formal project identity for regional engagements would enhance
       visibility and accountability within the Bank for operations involving
       complex regional dialogue and structures. As there is no formal lending
       relationship underpinning the Energy Community dialogue between the Bank and
       regional apex institutions, there is no formal project identity, budgeting and direct
       accountability within the formal Bank system for effective regional dialogue.
       Fortunately this does not appear to have been a serious problem to date, given
       steady and strong management support and continuity in staffing assignments.

In addition the following more specific lessons can be drawn from the implementation
and achievements of APL2 and APL3:




                                            23
•   Political commitment and sustained dialogue over time are critical for
    electricity market reform and the APL instrument is useful in this regard.
    Electricity market reform is a complicated agenda and takes time to implement
    even when backed by the Government’s strong political commitment, as is the
    case in Turkey. The programmatic nature of the APL instrument allowed the
    Bank to continue and sustain its support to the Government’s agenda. The Bank’s
    continued broad engagement in the energy sector in general and the ongoing
    APL6 in particular provide a platform for maintaining the dialogue in the post
    completion phase.

•   Opportunities for enhanced coordination between electricity market actors
    in Turkey remain and should be exploited. Increased coordination and
    continuous information sharing between EMRA and TEIAS could help TEIAS
    plan and target its investments more effectively and in a timely manner.

•   A restructured, largely privatized electricity sector requires that TEIAS as
    the system operator and market operator has the capacity to react to rapidly
    evolving operating environment in a proactive and timely manner; the
    Government may therefore want to consider ways to increase TEIAS’
    capacity to operate more efficiently. TEIAS will need to operate in a manner
    that reacts to changing circumstances and the needs of the increasingly privatized
    distribution and generation sectors, as well as be able to attract and retain
    qualified staff.

•   In order to maximize the benefits provided by the flexibility of the APL
    instrument, define clear criteria for subprojects, ensure sufficient size of
    individual loan installments. The APL instrument was particularly useful in the
    rapidly developing Turkish environment, allowing both the borrower and the
    Bank to react to changing priorities. Its programmatic and time slice nature
    allowed flexibility to continue investments initiated under APL2 in APL3 and on
    to APL6 in some cases and to replace subprojects with higher priority ones during
    implementation. At the same time, it was somewhat costly and time consuming
    for TEAIS to move subprojects from one APL installment to the next or to apply
    Bank requirements to sub-projects that had originally been initiated under national
    procurement and safeguard policies. Better defined criteria for investments would
    have helped TEIAS plan and identify subprojects accordingly, and this lesson is
    reflected in the criteria for APL6. Larger size of the APL loan installments would
    also have helped in this regard – in fact, APL2 was originally planned to be of
    more significant size, and the size of the Turkey APL installments has increased
    over time with APL6 being the largest installment to date.

•   Identify indicators that not only measure the completion or output of
    projects but also outcomes, impact or results, and that help quantify the
    impact and causally link them to the projects. While the original results
    indicators in APL2 and APL3 were useful, they were output oriented and
    additional, outcome and results oriented indicators needed to be added during



                                        24
      implementation. Also, some of the indicators used made it difficult to quantify the
      specific impact of the APL2 and APL3 subprojects on the indicator values.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

A summary of TEIAS’ ICR is presented in Annex 7. The Bank has no comments on
issues raised in the Borrower’s ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

The ECSEE APL2 and APL3 projects did not have co-financing.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The European Commission and the Energy Community Secretariat are the Bank’s main
partners in the ECSEE APL program. Commission and Bank staff cooperated during the
ECSEE APL program preparation, and Commission, Secretariat and Bank staff
cooperated during implementation of APL2 and APL3. Commission and Secretariat
comments on the overall ECSEE APL program were included in their comments on the
ICR for the APL1 Romania Hidroelectrica S.A. Project, and are not duplicated here.




                                          25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

APL2

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                        Percentage of
          Components            Estimate (EURO Estimate (EURO
                                                                         Appraisal
                                    millions)        millions)
Creation of a Market
Management System (MMS)
                                       13.8                4.5              33%
for the management of the
electricity market in Turkey.
Strengthening of the
                                       17.9                1.0               6%
SCADA/EMS
Provision of grid strengthening
and expansion for overall              28.95             60.55             209%
stability
           Total Baseline Cost         60.95             66.05             109%
                                               Included in the
Physical Contingencies
                                         2.3   total costs

Price Contingencies                            Included in the
                                        3.1
                                                total costs
          Total Project Costs          66.05            66.05              100%
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.25              0.25
   Total Financing Required            66.3             66.3               100%




(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal Actual/Late
                                   Type of   Estimate st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                 Cofinancing (EURO      (EURO of Appraisal
                                             millions)  millions)
Borrower                                       15.7       15.7      100%
International Bank for
                                                 50.6            50.6         100%
Reconstruction and Development




                                         26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


APL2 and APL3 investments represent a time slice of a large, ongoing investment
program of TEIAS. Therefore, the investments identified in the APL2 and APL3 PADs
were somewhat indicative and changed during implementation due to reprioritization of
investments over time, as discussed in Section 1.7 above and as detailed in the table
below. Note also that in many cases the total contract cost is higher that the amounts
financed by APL2 and APL3, respectively, with the balance financed from other sources
(including NTGP and APL6 in some cases).

Table: Pre-identified and implemented/actual sub-projects financed by APL2 and APL3

                Pre-identified/planned                                       Implemented/actual
                                                       APL-2
                                      Component 1: Market Management System
Market Management System (MMS)                          Market Management System (MMS) (Day Ahead Market
                                                        Trading and Settlement System
                                                        Automatic Meter Reading System (AMR)
                                                        Balancing and Settlement System (BSS)
                               Component 2: Strengthening of National Load Dispatch
Regional Terminal Units (RTUs), regional control        Three Remote Control Centers and 75 Remote Terminal
centers (RCC), control center & communication           Units
equipment and expansion/revision of the EMS
programs
                                                        Tele-control Interface Equipment and Services
                                  Component 3: Transmission System Reinforcement
Strengthening and renovation of existing substations    GIS Yenibosna Substation
and O&M equipment
                                                        GIS Beykoz Substation
                                                        GIS Altintepe Substation
                                                        GIS Van Substation
                                                        Davutpas-Yenibosna underground cable
                                                        O&M materials, equipment
                                                       APL- 3
                                 Component 1: Transmission Network Strengthening
GIS Alsancak Substation                                 GIS Alsancak Substation
GIS Yenikapi Substation                                 GIS Yenikapi Substation
Ayrilikcesme 154 kV GIS Substation                      Not financed
Yildiztepe – Davutpasa 380 kV Underground Cable         Yildiztepe – Davutpasa 380 kV Underground Cable
Additional Investments (not identified)                 GIS Mancarlik Substation
                                                        GIS Küçükbakkalköy Substation
                               Component 2: Urban Transmission Network Upgrading
154 kV Davutpasa-Bagcilar underground cable             154 kV Davutpasa-Bagcilar underground cable
154 kV Bagcilar-Atisalani underground cable             154 kV Bagcilar-Atisalani underground cable




                                                        27
380 kV Ümraniye-Kucukbakkalöy underground cable    380 kV Ümraniye-Kucukbakkalöy underground cable
Ümraniye-Vaniköy (P20) underground cable           Not financed
Bornova – University underground cable             Not financed
(Bornova-University) Bran P.- Morsan underground   Not financed
cable
Bozyaka-Karabağlar underground cable               Not financed
Karabağlar-Buca underground cable                  Not financed
                                                   380 kV Davutpasa-Yenibosna underground cable
                                                   Karabiga-Can-Soma over-head transmission line
                                                   5 new 154/33KV transformers
                                                   3 new 380/154 KV auto-transformers



APL2

Component 1 – Market Management System (MMS): Component 1 consisted of the
Market Management System (Day Ahead Market Trading and Settlement System), the
Automatic Meter Reading System (AMR) and a technical assistance contract for the
electricity market balancing and settlement system (BSS) and training, as summarized in
the table below.

The Day Ahead Market Planning was largely completed with simulations and training for
participants is underway. The Day Ahead Market is expected to be put on-line on by
December 1, 2011. Warranty payments on the system will continue for at least three
years thereafter. The AMR was completed as originally planned. However, the
operational acceptance tests have taken a long time and are not completed yet. The
consulting contract for the BBS was renewed for 18 months in March 2010 to be partly
financed by APL6, and will continue until September 2011.

Subproject                                          Amount financed by APL2
Market Management System (MMS) (Day Ahead Market
Trading and Settlement System)                                   € 1,617,603
Automated Meter Reading System (AMR)                               € 745,763
Balancing and Settlement System (BSS)                            € 2,103,231
                                              Total              € 4,466,596

Component 2 – SCADA/EMS (supervisory control and data acquisition/energy
management system): Three Regional Control Centers, 75 Remote Terminal Units
(RTUs) and related equipment were financed under this component as summarized below.
The contract was scheduled to have been finished in July 2010, but the equipment was
only delivered towards the end of August 2010, with installation continuing into 2011.
The three Regional Control Centers are completed and the testing of the RTUs is
expected to be completed by June 2011. TEIAS and the contractor agreed in April 2011
to integrate the database management system of the three new Regional Control Centers



                                                   28
to TEIAS’ existing SCADA database system, which lead to extension of the contract
completion date to June 14, 2011.

Subproject                                             Amount financed by APL2
Three Remote Control Centers and 75 Remote Terminal
Units (RTUs)                                                          € 936,727
Tele-control Interface Equipment and Services                         € 109,406
                                                 Total              € 1,046,133

Component 3 – Transmission grid strengthening and expansion: Four GIS substations, an
underground cable and O&M materials and equipment (thermal cameras, mobile
transformers and monitoring systems) were financed as follows (including voltage and
size of the GIS substations):

Subproject                                             Amount financed by APL2
GIS Yenibosna Substation (380/154kV, 950MVA)                       € 17,048,546
GIS Beykoz Substation (380kV, 250MVA)                               € 9,456,736
GIS Altintepe Substation (154kV, 200MVA)                            € 8,344,830
GIS Van Substation (380kv)                                          € 2,008,591
380kV Davutpaşa-Yenibosna underground Cable (7.1km)                 € 1,438,074
O&M materials, equipment                                            € 6,537,195
                                                 Total             € 44,833,971

APL3

Component 1 – Transmission Network Strengthening: Construction of four GIS
substations and an underground cable were financed as summarized in the table below
(including voltage and size of the GIS substations and voltage and length of the cable).
One of the substations, Yenikapi, was held up on account of archeological findings and
will be completed under APL 6.

Subproject                                               Amount financed by APL3
GIS Alsancak Substation (154kV, 50 MVA)                               € 5,807,578
GIS Yenikapi Substation (154kV, 250MVA)                               € 6,119,832
420 kV Yildiztepe – Davutpasa Underground Cable (9.3
km)                                                                  € 15,201,945
GIS Mancarlik Substation (154kV, 100MVA)                              € 6,654,692
GIS Küçükbakkalköy Substation (420kV, 750MVA)                        € 22,215,824
                                                   Total             € 55,999,870


Component 2 – Urban Transmission Network Upgrading: Four underground cables, an
overhead transmission line, and eight new transformers were financed as summarized
below (including the voltage and length of the cables and the transmission line). The


                                          29
Yenibosna-Davutpasa Underground Cable initiated with APL2 and APL3 financing will
be completed under APL 6.

Subproject                                                Amount financed by APL3
154 kV Davutpasa-Bagcilar underground cable (5.8 km)                   € 11,879,684
 154 kV Bagcilar-Atisalani underground cable (5.0 km)                  € 10,957,284
 380 kV Ümraniye-Kucukbakkalöy underground cable (6.3
km)                                                                    € 16,118,504
 380 kV Davutpasa-Yenibosna underground cable (7.3 km)                  € 2,555,319
 380 kV Karabiga-Can-Soma over-head transmission line
(159.5 km)                                                             € 16,300,317
 Five154/33KV transformers & three 380/154 KV auto-
transformers                                                           € 10,876,522
                                                    Total              € 68,687,630

Impact on Reliability and Transmission Capacity

APL2 and APL3 made a significant contribution to the reliability of the system. The
investments in GIS substations, monitoring equipment, cables and the over-head
transmission line were targeted at geographic and power system areas experiencing rapid
growth in load and demand, and where TEIAS’ analysis showed that the reliability of the
system was or would be at risk given these factors. Similarly, the introduction of the
electricity market has increased the stability of the system with no major blackouts
experienced since its introduction.

The transmission capacity of TEIAS’ system was also significantly increased through the
investments in the 380kV and 154kV GIS substations, 380kv and 154kV underground
cables and the 380 kV over-head transmission line. APL2 and APL3 increased the
transmission capacity at the substations by 1450MVA and 1150MVA, respectively.
APL3 greatly exceeded the intermediate results indicator target of 640MVA. Furthermore,
the eight new transformers purchased to serve as reserve equipment total 1300MVA.
Thus, the total capacity addition of 3900MVA at critically important, highly prioritized
substations was achieved.

The construction of a total of 33.6 km of underground cables in rapidly growing urban
areas (making over-head cables an unviable option) such as the Istanbul region was
financed, significantly increasing the safety, capacity and reliability of the system in the
subproject regions. Similarly, the 159.5 km over-head transmission line created a vital
connection between South Marmara and Western Anatolia Regions, enhancing the
reliability of the system in the region, allowing expected connection of close to 1000MW
of new wind power supply by 2012, and forming a part of a bigger transmission project.




                                            30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS

Original PAD Analysis of APL2

The financing provided by the APL2 Loan was designed to fund a time slice of the
transmission investment program of TEIAS. Thus the cost/benefit calculations were done
on the total transmission investment program of TEIAS, not just Bank financing. The
investment program of TEIAS totaled US$1.1 billion between 2005-2009, averaging
close to US$220 million per year.

This investment program has provided the funding to upgrade and to expand TEIAS’
transmission system and thus to increase the quantity of electricity transmitted, which is
the main measurable project benefit. The incremental benefit from transmitting an
additional kWh of electricity was valued in the PAD as 0.4 US cents/kWh, which was the
estimated electricity transmission tariff. Thus the benefit from the transmission
investment program for any given year was the incremental electricity transmitted that
year (compared to the base year) times the incremental benefit.

Program costs have comprised the annual capital investments plus an estimate of the
incremental operating costs of the investment program. The incremental operating cost of
transmitting one kWh of electricity was estimated in the PAD as 0.12 US cents/kWh.

The analysis in the PAD was undertaken using these assumptions from 2005 to 2025.
This analysis showed that the project had a real economic rate of return (ERR) of 14%
and the Net Present Value (NPV), discounted at 10%, was US$225 million in 2005
dollars. Besides, two sensitivity tests were conducted. The first assumed a lower growth
in Turkish electricity demand and TEIAS’ transmissions (5% per year) than is expected.
In this scenario, the ERR from the investment program dropped to about 7% and it had a
negative NPV (US$-160 million) at a 10% discount rate. The second sensitivity test
assumed that electricity demand and transmission of electricity was to grow at the
historic rate of about 9% per year. In this scenario, the ERR rose to 17% and the NPV of
the program at a discount rate of 10% rose to US$500 million.

No rates of return were calculated in the PAD for individual project components.

ICR Base Case

In the base case, the same approach to calculate the benefit of the entire investment
project in the PAD analysis, adjusted to the inflation, has been followed. The economic
analysis was undertaken using two demand scenarios. Based on MAED mode, the
electricity demand growth has been estimated as 7.5% and 6.7% per year in the high case
scenario and low case scenario, respectively. The benefits are the actual incremental
electricity transmitted, which is valued at the actual average tariff charged for
transmitting electricity (0.33 Euro cents per kWh or about 0.45 US cents/kWh). The



                                           31
costs are the actual investment costs of the program during 2005-2010 plus an estimate of
the incremental operating and maintenance costs. For the latter, the incremental cost of
0.13 Euro cents per kWh, that is the ratio of the increase in the operating costs in the last
five years to the increase in the volume transmitted in the same period , is applied.

This analysis led to very similar NPVs to the NPVs in PAD analysis in both 2005 and
2010 dollars and under both demand scenarios. Although TEIAS’ investments were
higher than the anticipated amounts at the project beginning, the tariffs have covered the
increased investment costs. Besides, the economic benefits from expanding the
transmission system are substantially higher than the transmission tariff charged.

ICR Alternative Case

Similar to the base case, the economic analysis was undertaken using two demand growth
scenarios (low case scenario of 6.7% growth per year and high case scenario of 7.5%
growth per year).

As mentioned earlier, the economic benefits to Turkey from expanding the transmission
system are substantially higher than the transmission tariff charged. If the transmission
system was not expanded then it is assumed the load growth would be met from local
generating plants using natural gas, or possibly, fuel oil. For APL6, it was estimated that
the cost of supplying electricity to a city through new small local gas-fired generation
plants was about 0.9 Euro cents/kWh higher than supplying power through the grid from
large new coal-fired combined cycle plants. 5 The additional operating and maintenance
costs per kWh of electricity transmitted are estimated at 0.13 Euro cents/kWh. Using
these assumptions for the value of the transmission service (0.9 Euro cents/kWh) and its
cost (0.13 Euro cents/kWh), adjusted for inflation, combined with the actual investment
costs and amounts of electricity transmitted leads to an ERR of 39% and 40% (according
to low demand and high demand scenarios). The NPV, in this case discounted at 10
percent, would be US$ 5.9 billion and US$ 6.4 billion in 2005 dollars (as shown in Table
below).

Table: Economic Results for APL2
                                                                                           NPV@10%                   NPV@10%
                                Anticipated Demand                    ERR
                                                                                             (2005                     (2010
                                      Growth                      (percentage)
                                                                                           US$ million)              US$ million)
                                High (9%)                               17%                     500
PAD                             Expected                                14%                     225
                                Low (5%)                                 7%                    -160
ICR - Base Case                 High (7.5%)                             11%                     200                          223



5
  Given the gas prices in Turkey (2010), the estimated cost of this power is 6.9 Euro cents/kWh at a 10% rate of return. The cost of
supplying power from a new generating plant located some distance from the load source was about 6.0 Euro cents/kWh assuming
that it is a new coal fired plant with flue gas desulfurization (with a 10% rate of return). This difference of 0.9 Euro cents/kWh was
used as the value provided by the substation and transmission lines.




                                                                  32
                     Low (6.7%)                  10%               52               58
ICR - Alternative    High (7.5%)                 40%            6,437            7,187
Case                 Low (6.7%)                  39%            5,861            6,544



Original PAD Analysis of APL3

The economic analysis in the PAD of APL3 was undertaken using two different
approaches:

1.      Economic analysis of the TEIAS investment program as a whole: Similar to
        the analysis in the PAD of APL2, the team assessed the ERR of TEIAS’ entire
        investment program of which the Bank has cumulatively financed a “time-slice?
        of about 16% under the Bank’s engagements – NTGP, ECSEE-APL2 and
        ECSEE-APL3.

2.      Economic Rate of Return on specific components : The team also assessed the
        economic benefits of specific components such as a sample of substations
        (Alsancak, Yenikapi and Ayrilikcesme) where the growth in load in the area
        around the substation provided an economic rationale for that particular substation,
        and the 380 kV transmission cable, Yildiztepe-Davutpasa, which was designed to
        improve reliability in the Davutpasa area.

In the assessment of the TEIAS’ entire investment program, the APL3 PAD used the
same approach as the APL2 PAD had used. The incremental benefit from transmitting an
additional kWh of electricity was valued as 0.43 US cents/kWh, which was the estimated
electricity transmission tariff. The incremental operating cost of transmitting one kWh of
electricity was estimated in the PAD as 0.12 US cents/kWh.

In this analysis for APL3 undertaken from 2006 to 2026, two demand forecasts based on
an economic growth scenario prepared by SPO and electricity demand forecasts driven
from the MAED model (Model for Analysis of Energy Demand) were used. In the
base/high case scenario and low case scenario, the electricity demand growth was
estimated as 8.3% and 6.3% per year, respectively. Electricity transmitted through the
TEIAS system was assumed to remain about 78% of demand, which was the case in 2004
and 2005.

Based on these assumptions, the ERR for TEIAS’ investment program was 12% in the
low demand case and 18% in the base or high case. The NPV of this program at a 10%
discount rate was US$159 million in the low demand case and US$710 million in the
base case.

Economic rate of return on some of the individual substations constructed under APL3
were estimated as well. The estimated value-added of a substation would be the
difference in cost between a new local single-cycle gas-fired power plant and the power
delivered through the grid, including estimated wire costs from a new combined-cycle
power plant. This difference is 1.0 US cents/kWh, although this approach is not a precise


                                            33
fit for all of the project-financed substations, it is a useful first approximation of the
substation service value. Using 1.0 cents/kWh, a real economic rate of return was
calculated for each substation built under this project. The ERR ranged from a low of
13% for Ayrilikcesme to a high of 20% for Alsancak, and the ERR for Yenikapi (18%)
was in the middle.

In addition to this, the ERR for Yildiztepe-Davutpasa 380 kV transmission cable was
estimated as 21%, based on the cost of estimated energy interruptions if that cable had
not been in place, and the international average of outage (3.4 hrs per year) per kilometer
on a 380 KV cable. The cost of unserved energy was taken at 385 Euros per MWh - that
is the Bank consultants’ estimate of unserved energy in Southeast Europe.

ICR Base Case

In the base case, the same approach was used to calculate the benefit of the entire
investment project as in the APL3 PAD, adjusted for inflation. This economic analysis
was undertaken using two demand scenarios. Based on MAED model, the electricity
demand growth has been estimated as 7.5% and 6.7% per year in the high case scenario
and low case scenario, respectively. The benefits are the actual incremental electricity
transmitted, which is valued at the actual average tariff charged for transmitting
electricity (0.33 Euro cents per kWh). The costs are the actual investment costs of the
program during 2006-2010 plus an estimate of the incremental operating and
maintenance costs. For the latter, the incremental cost of 0.08 Euro cents per kWh that
was used in the PAD of the APL6 is applied.

This analysis led to very similar NPVs to the NPVs in PAD analysis in both 2005 and
2010 dollars and under both demand scenarios. Although TEIAS’ investments were
higher than the anticipated amounts at the project beginning, the tariffs have covered the
increased investment costs. Besides, the economic benefits from expanding the
transmission system are substantially higher than the transmission tariff charged.

ICR Alternative Case:

Similar to the base case, the economic analysis was undertaken using two demand growth
scenarios – a low case scenario of 6.7% growth per year and high case scenario of 7.5%
growth per year.

As mentioned earlier, the economic benefits to Turkey from expanding the transmission
system are substantially higher than the transmission tariff charged. If the transmission
system was not expanded then the load growth would be met from local generating plants
using natural gas, or possibly, fuel oil. For APL6, it was estimated that the cost of
supplying electricity to a city through new small local gas-fired generation plants was
about 0.9 Euro cents/kWh higher than supplying power through the grid from large new




                                            34
coal-fired plants. 6 The additional operating and maintenance costs per kWh of electricity
transmitted are estimated at 0.13 Euro cents/kWh. Using these assumptions for the value
of the transmission service (0.9 Euro cents/kWh) and its cost (0.13 Euro cents/kWh),
adjusted for inflation, combined with the actual investment costs and amounts of
electricity transmitted leads to an ERR of 56% and 57% (according to low demand and
high demand scenarios). The NPV, in this case discounted at 10 percent, would be
US$ 7.4 billion and US$ 8.2 billion in 2005 dollars (as shown in Table below).

Table: Economic Results for APL3
                                                                                           NPV@10%                   NPV@10%
                                Anticipated Demand                    ERR
                                                                                             (2006                     (2010
                                      Growth                      (percentage)
                                                                                           US$ million)              US$ million)
                                High/Base (8.3%)                        18%                     710
PAD
                                Low (6.3%)                              12%                     159
                                High (7.5%)                             13%                     470                         508
ICR - Base Case
                                Low (6.3%)                              14%                     658                         712
ICR - Alternative               High (7.5%)                             57%                   8,177                       8,844
Case                            Low (6.3%)                              56%                   7,442                       8,050



FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

The Loan Agreement stipulated three financial covenants – self-financing ratio, current
ratio and debt service coverage. As seen in Table below, TEIAS has achieved all of these
targets. Although, regarding the self-financing ratio, TEIAŞ had difficulty in meeting the
target in some years (2005, 2006 and 2008), the recovery has been achieved remarkably
by the end of the decade.

                                   Table: Summary of the Financial Covenants
    Covenants                                Covenant            2005         2006         2007         2008         2009        2010*
    Self-financing ratio (%)                   35%               20%          19%          59%          24%          95%         167%
    Current ratio                               1.0               3.9          1.8          2.5          1.2          1.2         2.3
    Debt service coverage                       1.5               8.3          6.3          8.8          3.5          4.7         7.4
    *unaudited

Although transmission charges are adequate for TEIAS to realize a small profit margin
set by the Treasury, its financial performance has suffered from a knock-on effect of
payment delays by EUAS and TETAS, who are in turn affected by payment delays from
TEDAS. Since 2006 TEIAS has also been responsible as an intermediary for the market



6
  Given the gas prices in Turkey (2010), the estimated cost of this power is 6.9 Euro cents/kWh at a 10% rate of return. The cost of
supplying power from a new generating plant located some distance from the load source was about 6.0 Euro cents/kWh assuming
that it is a new coal fired plant with Flue gas desulfurization (with a 10% rate of return). This difference of 0.9 Euro cents/kWh was
used as the value provided by the substation and transmission lines.




                                                                  35
operations, which has resulted in the accumulation of corresponding accounts receivable,
with fewer accounts payable.

The accounts receivable issue is a systemic problem of the sector, and is outside TEIAS’
control; however it is causing TEIAS to have trouble collecting against its bills. The
problem stems from the retail sector, including municipalities that did not pay for public
street lighting and have been slow to pay for other uses, creating a cash flow problem for
TEDAS. Besides, before the privatization of the distribution companies, TEDAS
suffered much from high distribution losses and inadequate bill collection. These
shortfalls flow back up the chain, leading to cash flow shortages at EUAS and TETAS,
and this leads to high levels of accounts receivable at TEIAS.

Though, TEIAS had by and large been able to manage its finances despite the problem of
receivables till 2008, although there had been times when it faced liquidity pressures.
However, TEIAS’ receivables increased from TL 1.5 billion in 2006 to TL 5.8 billion in
2008. This resulted in payables increasing from TL 700 million to TL 4.9 billion in the
same period as TEIAS did not pay EUAS.

This situation was largely the result of delays in payments for transactions in the
electricity balancing market (the market was launched in August 2006, and a large part of
TEIAS’ receivables in 2008 pertained to inadequate payments in that market).
Furthermore, the drought in the summer of 2008 had an adverse effect on the hydropower
portfolio of EUAS, causing it to fail to meet the supply requirements in its long term
bilateral agreements. Hence, in addition to the other public energy companies with
payment problems, EUAS had to buy electricity from balancing market through TEIAS
for the first time, incurring debt. Because of the non-payments for transactions in the
electricity market, TEIAS, as the operator of the market, was billed penalties amounting
to TL 283 million in 2009 and TL 49 million in 2010, which it was not initially allowed
to pass on to TEDAS, EUAS and TETAS.

During 2009, the Government prioritized the sector’s cash flows towards ensuring current
payments and the clearance of past dues to: 1) private sector Build-Operate-Transfer
(BOT) plants; 2) private sector Build-Own-Operate (BOO) power plants, and 3) BOTAŞ
the public gas import/wholesale company. This, combined with a high level of capital
investments, led to TEIAS facing increased cash shortfalls, and TEIAS hence was not
able to service its debt for ECSEE APL2 and APL3 in early 2009. Treasury therefore had
to support TEIAS on occasion to make debt servicing payments for APL2 and APL3
under the Treasury Payment Guarantee. TEIAS paid back Treasury and completed the
repayment by mid-October 2010.

As a result, TEIAS netted a loss of TL 79 million and TL 55 million in 2008 and 2009,
respectively. However, starting in late 2009 and continuing currently, TEIAS’ financial
situation has improved substantially. The main factors contributing to this improvement
are given below.




                                           36
First, the Government has recognized the need to ensure sustained bill payments to
TEIAS by EUAS, TEDAS and TETAS, in order to enable private suppliers in the
wholesale market to be paid in time.

Second, an amendment in the Electricity Market Law in mid-2008 has also helped
improve cash flows. This amendment created a mechanism for direct payment by
Treasury for street lighting on behalf of the municipalities. The payments are made to the
distribution companies through TEDAS. Treasury paid TL 780 million and TL 804
million in 2009 and in 2010, respectively, and is expected to pay about TL 1 billion in
2011. This mechanism will continue until 2015.

Third, intensification of bill collections by TEDAS (with the Government support) and
the privatized distribution companies have also increased collections and reduced losses.
Companies that had averaged about 70 percent in payment now pay on average about 98
percent of all payment obligations. As the privatization of the distribution companies is
expected to be completed in 2011, the overall collection rate and cash flow of the energy
sector is expected to improve significantly in the next few years.

Fourth, in 2010, Treasury allowed TEIAS to charge interest payments on any outstanding
receivables between public sector entities. This enabled TEIAS to pass on the cost of
delayed payments to the state owned power companies, and collect its receivables (dating
as far back as 2003) from EUAS, TETAS and TEDAS much more efficiently. Besides,
the penalties amounting to TL 332 million (total of TL 283 million in 2009 and TL 49
million in 2010) that had been billed to TEIAS because of the non-payments for
transactions in the electricity market was also accrued to the accounts payables of
TETAS in March 2010.

In 2010, a further amount of TL 984 million was paid by TETAS on its accounts payable
with the support of the Treasury. TEIAS in turn used the funds it received from TETAS
and some other funds (partly from TEDAS) to pay its accounts payable of TL 1.2 billion
in the beginning of 2009 to the private sector by April 2010.

As shown in the table below, net receivables of TEIAS from the public energy entities –
stemming from transmission services and the balancing & settlement activities- decreased
to as low as TL 493 million as of 2010 year-end.


            Table: TEIAS’ Payables/Receivables to/from Other Public Energy Entities
                                     as of 2010 year-end

                                Receivables                    Payables                     Net Receivables
        Public Entity           (million TL)                  (million TL)                    (million TL)
                         Trans.   B&S        Total     Trans.   B&S        Total       Trans.   B&S        Total
EUAS                                            478        47       478       525         (47)    (478)     (525)
TETAS                                 939       939        57                  57         (57)      939       882
TEDAS                       142                 142         1         5            6      141        (5)    (136)




                                                      37
   Total                               142         939      1,081          105          483      588          37         456       493


   Legislation that has allowed a onetime net-out of receivables/payables amongst public
   energy companies was passed as of February, 2011. The write-off will allow the
   companies except for TEDAS to clear their balance sheet and increase their capital
   efficiency. As per the new law, net debt of all the public energy companies, that is
   expected to cost around TL 10-12 billion, will be borne by TEDAS. The companies are
   expected to sign MoUs among themselves to reconcile their mutual debts. TEIAS has
   already signed MoUs with EUAS and TETAS, and is about to conclude one with TEDAS.

   Clearance of past dues to BOTAŞ and BOT/BOO power plants has also eventually
   helped free up some cash for other parts of the sector such as TEIAS.

   Consequently, TEIAS’ receivables have declined sharply from TL 4.4 billion in 2009 to
   TL 1.9 billion in 2010 and payables have decreased sharply from TL 3.7 billion to TL 0.7
   billion in the same period.

   As shown in the table below, TEIAS posted a substantial operating income in 2009 (TL
   234 million) and in 2010 (TL 272 million), and also increased its cash on hand from TL
   85 million at the end of 2009 to TL 764 million at the end of 2010. Net profit increased
   from a loss of TL 55 million in 2009 to a profit of TL 332 million in 2010. The
   receivables declined significantly from 187 days of sales revenue to 51 days in the same
   period, while payables showed a commensurate decrease in this period from161 days of
   sales revenue to 32 days. TEIAS’ funds from internal resources have improved notably so
   that it can sustain increases in investments which in future are planned to increase by
   increments of TL 50 million per year. The self-financing ratio improved significantly
   from 24% in 2008 to 95% in 2009 and further to 167% in 2010.

                         Table: TEIAS Financial Condition – Historical Performance


                                                2005           2006              2007         2008          2009          2010*
(TL Million)
Energy Transmitted (GWh)                        126,139        142,179        164,553         172,635      172,188         188,308
                7
Total Revenue                                        783          1,725           4,593         7,473         8,499            8,484
Operating Income                                       83           150                 63           21         234             272
Net Income                                           112              65            102           -79              -55          332
Financial Ratios
Net Profit Margin                                 14.3%             3.8%           2.2%         -1.1%         -0.6%            3.9%
Pre-Tax Return on Assets                            1.9%            1.4%           2.2%         -1.6%         -1.2%            7.7%



   7
      TEIAS books the electricity market transactions on its balance sheet and income statement, constituting more than 80% of its total
   revenue. TEIAS is the market operator and not the buyer/seller of electricity, therefore should only book the market operator fee and
   not the entire energy purchase/sales of the balancing market on its financial statements. A reassessment of the regulatory and
   accounting framework may be necessary in the future in this regard.




                                                                    38
Return on Equity        1.9%    1.1%    1.7%    -1.3%   -0.9%   5.2%
Receivables (days)      278.2   308.4   102.0   284.2   187.3   50.9
Payables (days)          35.6   151.7    35.6   243.5   161.0   32.2
Self-Financing Ratio     20%     19%     59%     24%     95%    167%
Debt Service Coverage     8.8     6.3     8.8     3.5     4.7    7.4
  *: Unaudited




                                 39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

APL2
(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
          Names                        Title              Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Kari Nyman              Lead Specialist                  ECSIE
Dilek Barlas            Sr. Counsel                      LEGEC
Irina Kichigina         Sr. Counsel                      LEGEC
Rozena Serrano          Program Assistant                ECSIE
Yukari Tsuchiya         Program Assistant                ECSIE
Doina Visa              Operations Officer               ECSIE
Elif Yonca Yukseker     Team Assistant                   ECCU6
Selma Karaman           Program Assistant                ECCU6
Doncho Barbalov         Operations Officer               ECSIE
Nicholay Chistyakov     Sr. Finance Officer              LOAG1
Bogdan Constantinescu   Sr. Financial Management         ECSPS
                        Specialist
Istvan Dobozi           Lead Energy Economist            ECSIE
Stjepan Gabric          Projects Officer                 ECSIE
Mohinder Gulati         Sr. Financial Analyst            ECSIE
David Kennedy           Sr. Energy Economist             ECSIE
Iftikhar Khalil         Lead Energy Specialist           ECSIE
Ranjit Lamech           Sector Leader                    IEF
George Moldoveanu       Team Assistant                   ECCRO
Dejan Ostojic           Sr. Energy Specialist            ECSIE
Gurhan Ozdora           Sr. Operations Officer           ECSPF
Alessandro Palmieri     Lead Dam Specialist              ESDQC
Jonathan Pavluk         Sr. Counsel                      LEGEC
Stan Peabody            Lead Social Scientist            ECSSD
Sameer Shukla           Sr. Financial Analyst            ECSIE
Devesh Mishra           Sr. Procurement Specialist       ECSPS
Seda Aroymak            Sr. Financial Management         ECSPS
                        Specialist
Salih Kalyoncu          Procurement Specialist           ECSPS
Angelica Fernandes      Procurement Analyst              ECSPS
Leonid Vanian           Sr. Procurement Specialist       ECSPS
Daniel Aizic            Consultant – Financial Analyst   ECSPS
Bernard Baratz          Consultant – Environmental       EASEG
                        Specialist
Ramon Lopez-Rivera      Consultant – Engineering,        ECSIE


                                        40
                           Hydropower
James Moose                Consultant – Energy Economist     ECSIE

Supervision/ICR
Ayse Seda Aroymak    Sr Financial Management Specia ECSO3
Bernard Baratz       Consultant                     EASCS
Husam Mohamed Beides Senior Energy Specialist       MNSEG
Sergio Augusto Gonzalez
                           Sr Power Engineer                  ECSS2
Coltrinari
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu       Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSO2
Selma Karaman              Program Assistant                 ECCU6
Iftikhar Khalil            Consultant                        ECSS2
Zeynep Lalik               Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
Devesh Chandra Mishra      Manager                           ECSO2
James Moose                Consultant                        ECSS2
Kishore Nadkarni           Consultant                        EASIN
Shinya Nishimura           Senior Energy Specialist          ECSS2
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora        Senior Operations Officer         ECSS2
Yesim Akcollu Oguz         Energy Specialist                 ECSS2
Norval Stanley Peabody     Consultant                        ECSS2
Sameer Shukla              Senior Energy Specialist          ECSS2
Yukari Tsuchiya            Temporary                         ECSSD
Jari Väyrynen              Senior Environmental Specialist   ECSS2
Fan Zhang                  Energy Economist                  ECACE

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                         1.85                    11.01
                          Total:               2.71                    14.19
Supervision/ICR
 FY05                                        2.30                      10.50
 FY06                                       20.53                      82.92
 FY07                                       21.69                      98.23
 FY08                                       17.97                      81.00
 FY09                                       12.35                      67.51
 FY10                                       14.09                      64.51
 FY11                                       18.22                      85.27
                          Total:           107.15                     489.94


                                          41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                     43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

TEIAS considers APL2 and APL3 to have been successful and the Project development
objectives to have been met. The APL2 electricity market development-related
components were critical in introducing a well functioning national electricity market;
APL2 helped Turkey meet Energy Community objectives and gradually integrate its
system with the European market. By completing all APL2/ APL3-financed transmission
projects, TEIAS increased its installed capacity by 4250MVA of transformers, 160km of
overhead transmission line, and 34.28km of underground cable. Together these
investments provide enormous additional capacity to TEIAS’ interconnected transmission
grid and have significantly improved the reliability, efficiency and safety of the system.
Results achieved are discussed below.

                                 ECSEE APL2 Project

Component 1: The first objective of APL 2 Project was to provide support for
implementation of the Turkish wholesale electricity market that is managed by TEIAS
and create a well-functioning trading system through three projects:
           • Balancing and Settlement System Project
           • Day Ahead Market Trading and Settlement System Project (MMS)
           • Automated Meter Reading System Project (AMR)

The objective of Balancing and Settlement System is to give technical assistance and
implementation support for the electricity market, operational and implementation
support for procured market systems (MMS and AMR) and, operation and updating of
final market design ancillary services, collateral mechanism. In April 2009, the revised
Balancing and Settlement Regulation (BSR) came into force through combined efforts of
the consultant and TEIAS.

To create a successful Day Ahead Market in Turkey, a well-functioning trading system
that is able to support the future regional market is needed. To this end, the Day Ahead
market Trading System and Settlement System (MMS) was created and Project financing
was obtained from the APL-2 loan. As of December 2011, the Day Ahead Market will
begin to operate; the market structure was created in accordance with the European
Union Acquis Communitaire, is similar to systems in developed markets, and therefore
aligned with objectives of the ECSEE APL Program and APL2 and APL3.

The AMR system supports TEIAS with the daily tasks of acquiring accurate metered data
from energy meters and metering points and the transmission of these values to a central
database. The data will be used for settlement and billing and be transferred to actors on
the deregulated market. The AMR System’s Operational Acceptance Test began on 26
April 2010 but is yet to be completed.

The Projects improved the quality of TEIAS’ tendering documents and procedures, for
example, the SCADA project. World Bank-financed projects use internationally
competitive bidding procedures; bidders can tender in foreign currencies and since 2009,



                                           44
bid payments are made in tendered currencies. Since 80 percent of contract value is based
on material price, during the sub-station construction, risks to our institution and to
contractors were reduced. Since the creditor determines qualification criteria for bidders;
in general, the result has been that TEIAS gets to work with more informed and
experienced contractors, which raised the quality of Projects health and safety conditions
and ensures that Projects are completed on time.

Component 2: The second objective of APL 2 Project was to strengthen supervisory
control and the data acquisition/energy management system (SCADA/EMS) to enable
TEIAS to operate more efficiently. The capacity of the existing six Regional Control
Centers to be connected to Remote Terminal Units was increased by 60 additional
Telecontrol Interface Boards (TCBs), which enables TEIAS to continue to connect more
RTUs to these control centers.

Some Project outcomes are yet to materialize due to Project implementation delays.
However, at Project completion, important transmission substations and power plants will
be included in the SCADA system—in Seyhan, Erzurum and Kepez Load Dispatch
regions, resulting in more than 300 transmission substations and power plants in TEIAS
SCADA/EMS System. This TEIAS SCADA System extension will improve the
reliability, efficiency and operational performance of the Turkish Power System.

A lesson learned from this Project is that massive data entry into the SCADA database
can impair SCADA operations (and hence operation of the power system) when new
parts of SCADA are being integrated with the existing SCADA system.

Component 3: The third objective of the APL 2 Project was to strengthen and expand the
transmission grid for overall system stability; subprojects financed from APL2 under this
component included three new GIS substations and O&M materials and equipment
(thermal cameras, mobile transformers and monitoring systems). The GIS substations
were implemented in fast-growing urban residential areas and areas of rapid load and
demand growth—high priority investments for TEIAS to improve supply, meet rapid
demand growth, and increase system reliability and safety in subproject areas.


Altintepe GIS: Altıntepe GIS was constructed in a new substation field as an alternative
to the existing substations in the same region which had reached the end of their
economic lives as locations for new substations.


Beykoz GIS Substation: This substation is in a fast-growing residential area of Istanbul
on the Anatolian side; the distance from the main distribution and sub-transmission
(154kV) network makes this region difficult to feed. The rate of load increment showed
that transferring large load from a distribution level is technically infeasible and the
expansion of loads to northern Beykoz required strong connection of this region, which
makes it reasonable to construct a simple 380/33kV substation below these 380kV lines.




                                            45
Yenibosna GIS Substation: Please see below under APL3 Yenibosna-Davutpasa Cable
subproject.

O&M Materials and Equipment: The O&M materials and equipment included thermal
cameras, remote monitoring systems, and mobile transformers.

Thermal Cameras: the 39 thermal cameras were distributed to TEIAS’ provincial units;
measurement results are reported in three-month periods. According to the 2010 reports,
8391 heated points were detected with thermal cameras and 2797 heated points were
addressed by prioritizing through importance, urgency and applicability. This procedure
before the occurrence of breakdowns prevented power failures.

Remote Monitoring Systems: The 45 units of Substation Remote Monitoring System
were installed at the transformers. Most operations with Substation Remote Monitoring
Systems were disabled due to problems originating from GSM access and its costs.
Instead, it was decided that remote access should be provided via the Internet (ADSL).
However, since 2009, remote monitoring devices have been reinstalled—either at the
substations where needed or at the substations where the urgent monitoring is required.
Hydrogen (H) and Carbon Dioxide (CO) formed in the insulation oil of the transformers
is also being monitored and followed up on a daily basis.

Mobile Transformers: Two 170/33 kV, 25/31.25 MVA Mobile Transformers were
acquired. Mobile Transformers provided big advantages in ability to meet energy demand
in emergency cases in regions where breakdowns or outages occurred.

                                ECSEE APL 3 Project

The objective of APL3 Project was to increase the safety, reliability, efficiency and
capacity of the bulk power transmission system in Turkey and to improve market access
for consumers and supplies of electricity. The subprojects consisted of underground cable
projects, GIS substations, a transmission line and transformers.

420 kV Underground Cable Projects

Yıldıztepe-Davutpasa Cable: Yıldıztepe-Davutpasa cable is crucial in terms of grid
reliability in this region. The load forecast and load flows made it obvious that
constructing 380 kV Yıldıztepe-Davutpasa cable was urgent to compensate demand in
Istanbul region, which increases daily.

Umraniye-Kucukbakkalkoy Cable: This line is necessary for connecting K.Bakkalkoy
substation to the system in one of the most populated regions of Istanbul where the
urbanization rate is very high and building overhead lines is not possible. Consumption
increases daily and this cable reduced transmission losses and increased safe supply.

170 kV XPLE Power Cable Projects




                                           46
Davutpasa-Bagcilar Cable and Atısalanı-Bagcilar Cable: The Istanbul urbanization rate
increases daily and safety is compromised by the old overhead transmission lines that are
too close to buildings; they are a hazard when they break and fall. Hence, cable is more
suitable and by considering consumption increases from development, these lines cross-
section and capacity were increased.

380 kV Power Cable Projects

Yenibosna GIS Substation (Within the scope of the APL 2) & Yenibosna-Davutpasa
Cable: Fast-growing Istanbul has huge energy consumption. Considering the average 8.0
percent increment of Turkish power system load, local increment value for big load
points such as Istanbul, Izmit, Izmir and Adana is over 10 percent. These regions are
over-populated and require new substations and overhead lines.

Considering the peak summer load for 2010, consumption is reaching up to ~2500MVA.
This demand is supplied by the four substations mentioned (2050MVA), including the
existing Yenibosna S/S which has power transformer capacity of 4x100MVA and six
154kV line feeders. To complete the 380kV ring starting from Ambarlı, Ambarlı
NGCCPP-Yenibosna Cable and Yenibosna-Davutpasa Cable projects are included in
official investment program of TEIAS.

420 kV GIS Projects

Kucukbakkalkoy GIS Substation: The main function of Kucukbakkalkoy S/S is to
provide reliable and sustainable transmission system operation in Umraniye and
Kucukbakkalkoy region; hence, supplying uninterrupted electricity where the cost of
unserved energy is very high compared to rural areas. Even with Kucukbakkalkoy GIS in
operation in 2010, autotransformer load in Tepeoren is near thermal limits. To ensure
reliable and continuous supply for this industrialized zone with thousands of workers, the
ongoing projects Kartal GIS and 380kV connections will complete progress.

170 kV GIS Projects

Alsancak GIS: This substation was built between Bornova and Hilal substations to meet
increased energy demand in the region; it was loaded 48 MW in 2010. The new load
demand of the region will be supplied from the 154 kV Alsancak GIS, decreasing the
loading of Bornova SS and Hilal SS.

Yenikapi GIS: Due to the rapidly increasing energy demand in Istanbul, new substations
were needed. The planned substation Yenikapı will be installed between Veliefendi and
Aksaray SS and will increase energy reliability to this region. After Yenikapı GIS is built,
Aksaray SS, which is at the end of its useful economic life, will be reconstructed.

Mancarlik GIS:




                                            47
Antalya, a large touristic center has rapidly increasing energy demand that required new
substations. The existing 66 kV Mancarlık SS was out of operation, having reached the
end of its economic life. A154 kV substation was constructed. The region which is 6 km
away from the nearest substation is now supplied more reliably.


380 kV Transmission Lines

Karabiga-Can-Soma Overhead Line: Recently commissioned Karabiga-Can-Soma line
creates a vital connection between South Marmara and Western Anatolia Region. Before
the transmission line was constructed, around the south Marmara region there was only
single 380/154 Substation located at Karabiga iron/steel factory with a 150MVA
autotransformer which was connected through a single long transmission line to Bursa
NGCCP substation. System reliability was low due to line interruptions on windy days.
The Can and Karabiga region is one of the most efficient places in terms of wind power
parks. It was agreed that almost 1000MW wind power plant connection would be
connected before 2012, and transferred to the grid via 380kV S/S, Can. Soma S/S will
also be connected to 380kv Morsan via a transmission line as part of TEIAS’ official
investment plan. By doing so, the connection between West Anatolia and South Marmara
will be strengthened. In addition, the overall transmission system plan related to South
Marmara is to connect Karabiga to Gelibolu and Istanbul by laying a submarine cable on
Dardanelle, of which the Karabiga-Can-Soma Transmission is part.

Transformers

The installed Power Transformers and Autotransformers met the load demand of the
necessary districts and contributed lower failures sourced from insufficient loads. Thee
autotransformers of 380/158 kV, 250 MVA were purchased through two supply contracts.
They were put to service to service at Afyon 2 SS on 21.06.2008, at Gaziantep 2 SS on
21.03.2008 and Varsak SS on 16.04.2008, respectively.

Five154/33,6 kV, 80/100 MVA Power Transformers were also purchased through three
supply contracts. Two of them were put to service at Diliskelesi SS and Kemer SS on
05.02.2008 and 18.01.2008 respectively, while another two were put into service at
Nevşehir 2 SS and Kayseri3 SS on 14.04.2008 and 18.02.2010 respectively. One
transformer purchased through the third contract was put into service at Samsun 2 SS on
05.12.2007.




                                          48
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                      49
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

      1.     Energy Community:

      ECSEE Treaty, October 25, 2005

      Other Energy Community documents:

      http://www.energy-community.org/portal/
      page/portal/ENC_HOME/DOCUMENTS?library.category=155

      Energy Community Secretariat web-site:

      http://www.energy-community.org


      2.     TEIAS/APL2 and APL3 projects:

      TEIAS, annual reports, up to 2009

      TEIAS, audited financial statements, up to 2009

      Other TEIAS information at: http://www.teias.gov.tr/eng/

      World Bank aide memoires, energy sector policy notes

      Project Appraisal Documents, # 31703-TR and 34909-TU

      Loan Agreements

      Guarantee Agreements




                                          50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33717R
                                                                                       28°                                                                                         32°                                                                                                36°                                                                                                     40°                                                                                             44°
               ROMANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       44°
44°                                                                                                                                                                                                       TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R U S S I A N F E D E R AT I O N
                                                                                                                   ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE
                                                                                                                              (APL2) PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TURKEY
                                                                                                                         SELECTED EXISTING COMPONENTS:                                                        NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                         HYDRO POWER PLANTS                                                                   REGIONAL CONTROL CENTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
               BULGARIA                                                                                                  THERMAL POWER PLANTS                                                                 PROJECT 380 kV SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIVERS
                                                                                                                         380 kV SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING 380 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                         154 kV GIS/OPEN TYPE SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                              380 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
                                                                                                                         OTHER SUBSTATIONS                                                                      PLANNED OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION

                                                                                                                                                                                                              154 kV XLPE CABLES & TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                                                                                                                                                             GEORGIA

                                       Edirne
                                                  KIRKLARELI
                                                           Kirklareli
                                                                                                                  B l a c k                       S e a                                                                                                            Sinop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B l a c k                     S e a
                                       HAMITABAD
                                                                                                                                                                                   BARTIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SINOP
                                                                                                                                                    ZONGULDAK                          Bartin           KASTAMONOU                                                                                                                                                                                                             BORÇKA
                                                                               ISTANBUL                  Istanbul Strait (Bosphorus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARTVIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOYABAT                         ALTINKAYA
                                                      e     ULAS                                                                                           Zonguldak
                                             E rg e n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DERINER
 GREECE                                                                       TASOLUK
                                                                                                                                                      EREGLI                                                                                                            Kizi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                  Samsun                                                                                                                                             Artvin Ardahan
                                                TEKIRDAG                                              YILDIZTEPE                                                                                             Kastamonou                                                        k                         CARASAMBA
                                                                                   IKITELLI                                                                                                     Karabük                                                                 Irma                                                                                                                                                                                        ARDAHAN
                              E




                                                                                                         PASAKOY
                                                                                                     KOCAELI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Rize
                          IRN




                                             Tekirdag                                                              OSMANCA                                                                                                                                                   SAMSUN                                                                                                    Trabzon                                     YUSUFELI
                                                                                                       (IZMIT)                                                                    KARABÜK                                                                                                                                                        Ordu         TIREBOLU                              IYIDERE                                                                       Çildir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIZE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ak
                                                                          BAHCESEHIR         Istanbul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gölü
                                                                                             Kocaeli        Çark
                         ED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Irm
                                                                                   ICMELER
                                                                   Sea of Marmara              (Izmit)           Sakarya
                                                                                  YALOVA GEBZE                                  BOLU                                                                                                      ÇORUM                                                                                                                                             TRABZON                                                                                    Kars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMASYA                             Ye s`i l                     ORDU                Giresun
                                                                                   Yalova      L.Sapanca
                                                                                                                 (Adapazari)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ÇANKIRI                                            k                                                                                                                                                                               r   uh         OLTU                            KARS                  ARMENIA
                                                                                                          SAKARYA          Bolu                                                                                                                Ir   ma             KAYABASI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Amasya                                                                                                                                       Ço
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GIRESUN                                 ¸
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gümüshane                ISPIR
                                                                                                                            (ADAPAZARI)                                                                   Çankiri                    li   ce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KARS
                                                                            Nilü                                                                                                                                                  De                                                                                      K e lk
                                                           Lake KARACABEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          it Ç a
                                                                                 fer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      yl                                       GÜMÜSHANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¸                       Bayburt




                                                                                                                                                                                                    ara
40°                           Çanakkale                   Manyas                                        Bursa                                                                                                                                          Çorum                             TOKAT Tokat                                                                                                                                 ERZURUM                                                                                           40°
                                                                          GORUKLE                                             Bilecik                                                    BAGLUM




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ank
                                                                               Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BAYBURT                                     HORASAN
                                                                  y




                                                                                                                                                                           CAYIRHAN
                        ÇANAKKALE
                                                                Ça




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Igdir
                                                                                v




                                                                             Apolyont                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IGDIR
                                                                              S im a




                                                                                                                    BILECIK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Erzurum
                                                            ca




     Çanakkale                                                                                                                              Sakar ya Nehri                       SINCAN           IMRAHOR    KIRIKKALE
                                                           Ko




 Strait (Dardanelles)
                                                                                         BURSA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Agri
                                                  Balikesir                                                                                Porsuk Çay                             ANKARA                         Kirikkale                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REGIONAL
                                                                         BALIKESIR                                         Eskisehir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Erzincan
                                                BALIKESIR
                                                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yozgat                                           Sivas                                             ERZINCAN                                                                         CONTROL                               AGRI                                           AZER-
                                                                                                                                                ESKISEHIR                                NATIONAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BAIJAN
                                                                                                                          SEYITOMER                                                      DISPATCH                                                              YOZGAT                                                                                                   te   s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIVAS                                hra
                                                                                                                                                     Sa




                                                                             BIGADIC
                                                                                                             Kütahya                                                                      CENTER                                                                                                                                                              Eup
                                                                                                                                                       ka




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KIRSEHIR
                                                                                                                                                           ry




                                                                 SOMA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TUNCELI
                                                                                                                                                            a




                                                                                                   KÜTAHYA                                                      Nehr               ANKARA                                         Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OZLUCE
 Sea




                                                                                                                                                                       i                                                          Seyfe                                                                                                                                           Tunceli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kirsehir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BINGÖL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MUS                                                                    ISLAMIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Keban                                Bingöl                                                                       VAN
                        Izm




                                           ALIAGA MANISA
                                                                                                                                           AFYON                                                                                                                                                                                                         KEBAN                    Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mus                                                                      R E P. O F
                         ir




                                      Manisa    G SARUHANLI                                                                   Afyon                                                               Tuz                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lake
                          Kö




                                                                                                      USAK OSB                                              Eber
                                                 ed
                                                    iz
                                                                                                                                                 Karamik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IRAN
                              r fe




                                                                                                                                                            Lake                                  Gölü                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Van
                                                       N eh ri                                                                                    Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KAYSERI                                                                                                           ELAZIG                                                                                                        Van
                                                                                               Usak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Elazig
 Aegean



                               zi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nevsehir
                                     Izmir
                                                                  TURGUTLU                                                 AFYON                                                                                                                                           Kayseri                                                             MALATYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LICE
                                                          Nif




                                                                                                 USAK                                                                                                                     NEVSEHIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bitlis      BITLIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sultan
                                                                                                                                                                                                          AKSARAYMarsh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DERINKUYU                                                                                                                                                   KARAKAYA
                                                          IZMIR                                                                                                                                           Aksaray                                                                                                          ELBISTAN                        Malatya                                     DIYARBAKIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TM
                                                          Golcuk Lake                                                                                                            KONYA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BASKALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YSILHISAR                                       KAHRAMAN                                                                                                SILVAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BA
                                                                                                                Aci                    Hoyran
                                                                                                                                                   Egridir                                                                                                                                                       MARAS
                                                                            de re s                             Gölü                    Gölü                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Diyarbakir                                           SIIRT
                                                                Bü yü km en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tes
                                               Aydin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    han
                                                                                       Denizli                                                      Gölü                         Konya                                                                     Nigde                                                                                                                                                                           Batman                 Siirt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ra
                                                                      N eh ri                      DENIZLI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ri
                                                                                                                                          Isparta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ph
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Neh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cey
                                                                 AYDIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tig ris                                                                                   Hakkari




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Eu
                                                                                                                   Burdur                 ISPARTA                                                                                          NIGDE                                                                                                  ADIYAMAN
                                                                                                                             Burdur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sirnak         ULUDERE                    HAKKARI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Adiyaman                                                                                   ILISU
                                                                                                                              Gölü                                         SYDISEHIR                                                                                                                                 Kahraman                                                                                                    MARDIN                              SIRNAK
                                                          MUGLA             YATAGAN                           BURDUR                                                                                                                                                 ADANA                                           Maras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATATURK
                                        Güllük                                                                                         Sütçüler            Beysehir
                                        Körfezi                                              DENIZLI                                                        Gölü                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KIZILTEPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mardin
                                                                              Mugla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SANLIURFA
                                                                            Köycegiz                                                                                               ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                 Sugla                                                                                                   OSMANIYE                                  G.ANTEP               Sanliurfa
                                                                              Lake                                                                                               Gölü                     Karaman                                            ADANA II                                                                 Gaziantep
                                                                rfe zi                                                                    VARSAK                                                                                                                             Osmaniye
                                                   G ök ov a Kö
                                                                                                                              Antalya                                                                KARAMAN                   Icel                                     REGIONAL                                       GAZIANTEP                    BIRECIK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I R A Q
                                                                                                                    ANTALYA                                                                                                  (Mersin)                                   CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KILIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Adana CENTER      Gulf of                                   Kilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Iskenderun                                                                                                                                                                              0            50            100       150           200
                                                                                                                                                Gulf of                                                     Gö
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HATAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ksu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                Antalya                                                                                                                            (ANTAKYA)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36°
36°                                                                                                                                                                                                 ICEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (MERSIN)                   Göksu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Hatay                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                              Finike                                                                                                                                       (Antakya)                                                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                              Körfezi                                                                                        Delta                                                                                                             SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or

                                                           28°
                                                                                   Mediterranean                                           Sea                             32°                                                                                                           36°                                                                                                                  40°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      44°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAY 2011
