Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20929-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.00MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA
FOR AN
INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
September 19,2000
Argentina Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 2000)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
LC = US$1
US$1 = LC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC           Advisory Council
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CMU          Country Management Unit
EA           Environmental Assessment
GEF          Global Environmental Facility
GOA          Government of Argentina
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
IDA          International Development Association (World Bank)
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IDF          Institutional Development Fund
INAI           National Institute for Indigenous Affairs (Instituto Nacional para Asuntos Indigenas)
IPA          Indigenous Protected Area
LCR          Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCSES          Environmental and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit of LCR
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
LMU          Local Management Unit
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PMU          Project Management Unit
SA           Special Account
SC           Subprojects Committee
TG           Technical Group
TOR          Terms of Reference
UCAF         Administrative and Financial Coordination Unit
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director    Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jorge E. Uguillas and Sandra Cesilini



ARGENTINA
INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      5
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              8
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            8
2. Financial                                                                           8
3. Technical                                                                           9
4. Institutional                                                                       9
5. Environmental                                                                       9
6. Social                                                                             10
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 11
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     12
2. Critical risks                                                                     12
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     13
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            13
2. Other                                                                              13



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          13
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           14
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     18
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          22
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            23
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     24
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        25
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      33
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    34
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   37
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             40
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                               42
Annex 12: Legal Analysis                                                                  54
MAP(S)



ARGENTINA
INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSES
Date: September 19, 2000                          Team Leader: Jorge E. Uquillas Rodas
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander         Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P057473                               Sector(s): SY - Other Social Sector
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
3 Loan          B Credit       B Grant         O Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.0 million
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   LOCl          Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     0.88            0.00          0.88
IBRD                                                           5.00            0.00          5.00
Total:                                                         5.88            0.00          5.88
Borrower: GOV. OF ARGENTINA
Responsible agency: NAT'L INSTITUTE OF INDIG. AFFAIRS
Address: Lavalle 547, 7o Piso
Buenos Aires
Contact Person: Alejandro Isla, President
Tel: 43939924/4345/4304/4306                Fax:                 Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$MI_
FY          2001         2002        2003        2004
Annual     1.0           2.0          1.5        0.5
Cumulative     1.0          3.0          4.5         5.0
Project implementation period: October 2000 - June 2003
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2003
OCS PAD fF  Rev-M, ZDD



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to establish the basis for community-driven development and
management of natural resources on indigenous lands. This includes strengthening social organization and
culture, formulating local development and natural resource management plans and testing innovative
approaches to addressing key socioeconomic and environmental issues in a gender-sensitive manner. The
project will develop an indigenous community-driven development model from experience in three cases,
the Mapuche territory of Pulmari (Neuquen Province), the Diaguita-Calchaqui territory of Amaicha del
Valle/Quilmes (Tucuman Province) and the Kolla territory of Finca Santiago (Salta Province). The project
will be considered successful when local indigenous social organizations are legally recognized and
functioning; mechanisms are in place and working to resolve land tenure conflicts; an Indigenous Protected
Areas legal framework has been formulated; there has been a successful integration of sustainable natural
resources management practices in community development plans; several successful new types of
economic alternatives have been identified and tested in each targeted area; and there is an on-going process
of technology adoption which would in the long run lead to increased productivity and income among
project beneficiaries.
The general objective of the Govemment's indigenous peoples policy, as expressed in Article 75 of the
National Constitution, is to guarantee the respect for their cultural identity and their right to a bilingual
and inter-cultural education, to recognize the juridical personality of their communities and the communal
possession and ownership of traditionally-held lands. It also establishes the need to ensure their
participation in the management of natural resources which they control and in other areas of their interest.
To achieve the stated objectives, the project will support the following activities: (a) Social and Cultural
Strengthening of Indigenous Communities, by supporting local indigenous organizations and indigenous
cultural heritage, land regularization (including legal assistance and conflict resolution), and planning local
community development and natural resource management; (b) Sustainable Use of Natural Resources, by
making investments in selected activities such as water management agricultural diversification, pastures
and forestry management, artisan production and market exchanges; and (c) Project Management,
including implementation arrangements, monitoring and evaluation, and communications and
dissemination of lessons learned.
An associated project, financed by a GEF grant, will complement this LIL, supporting biodiversity
conservation and promoting the creation of indigenous protected areas.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The main performance indicators are related to: (a) screening and selection of social and productive
investments (among them cost-benefit estimates, cash flow, rating of environmental risks and remediation
measures); (b) supervision of implementation of social and productive investments (among them success
rate of new enterprises, number of visits per investment project, checks on environmental mitigation); (c)
institutional capacity and local facilitation (among them reports of the Local Management Unit, LMU, to
the community organization, adoption of sound business practices, formulation of community development
plans and proposals); and (d) institutional capacity and outward linkages (including networking, regular
participation in outside events, establishment of inter-community conflict resolutions mechanisms, support
from provincial and federal government agencies and establishment of a legal framework for indigenous
protected areas).
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-1 16/IFC/R2000-120       Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/27/2000
Improving targeting and effectiveness of social assistance generally through innovative mechanisms for
reaching the poorest is an important element of the social development strategy of the CAS for Argentina.
The CAS environmental actions include promoting sustainable growth coupled with conservation of natural
resources through improved protection and management. A progress benchmark for social development is
establishment of community-based projects in rural areas and innovative partnerships for poverty
reduction, which is matched in the case of environment by the benchmark of establishing and properly
managing protected areas. The two objectives (social and environmental) will be addressed by the project.
Proven practices for achieving these objectives, at least as regards indigenous peoples, are not currently
available to the Government of Argentina. The project will help develop such practices and contribute to
the broader CAS objectives of environmentally and socially sustainable development.
According to the FY0 1-04 CAS, the focus on insuring that the poor participate in the development process
and promoting equitable, sustained growth will continue. Three broad themes will be emphasized by the
World Bank: i) enhancing social development, including poverty alleviation and human resource
development; ii) improving the performance and institutional capacity of government, particularly
sub-national governments, to deliver key, social, infrastructure, and environmental services; and iii)
consolidating structural reforms, including public finance, labor markets and the financial sector. Beyond
sound economic management and pro-employment growth policies, other key reforms for the rural poor,
including indigenous populations, address their needs for sustainable development, income generation,
access to safe water and other services, and community development.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Not applicable
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Indigenous peoples are arnong the poorest of the poor in Argentina, the product of a history of exclusion
and discrimination. Estimates of their population vary (in the absence of up-to-date census figures), but
sources indicate that they may number about one million people or about 3 percent of the total population.
They represent a high proportion, approximately 25 percent, of the rural population of the country and are
over-represented among the rural poor. However, even though their financial assets are low, their social
and cultural assets are high. Indigenous peoples are an important part of the social and cultural fabric of
the Argentine nation, as recognized by the 1994 Constitution. Their cultural and social diversity is being
increasingly recognized and valued, and efforts are being made to amend past policies that discriminated
against indigenous peoples.
There are several factors that demonstrate that the Government of Argentina is determined to change the
exclusion and poverty conditions of indigenous peoples. Beginning with the constitutional reform of 1994,
for the first time indigenous territorial rights were recognized. Shortly thereafter, the National Institute for
Indigenous Affairs (INAI) was created, within the Secretariat of Social Development, with a mandate to
develop the legal and administrative mechanisms for individual and collective land tenure, to identify
development needs of the indigenous peoples and to coordinate public sector investment in indigenous
community development. During 1998, the INAI invested significant resources ($ 3 million) in the legal
creation of the three proposed Indigenous Pilot Areas.
-3 -



To support these efforts, the Bank in 1996 approved an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant
designed to strengthen indigenous organizations in their capacities for planning, administration and
participation in dialogue with the governnent. The proposed project is a direct product of the dialogue
initiated by the World Bank with indigenous elected representatives and government officials to launch a
process that would take several years to complete.
One of the main aspirations of indigenous communities is to have their territories declared as indigenous
protected areas. There are several antecedents of natural protected areas containing indigenous human
settlements in Argentina. Among them, there is a recent initiative in the Parque Lanin that deals with
indigenous communities living within the boundaries of the Park and its buffer zone, which permits
communal land titling and sustainable use of natural resources for the resident Mapuche communities.
There are two other favorable antecedents in Argentina are worth mentioning. First, the official declaration
made by the Administracion de Parques Naturales (APSN: 1994, p.71) according to which the
administration would: (i) reach agreements with national and provincial organisms responsible for
protection/development of indigenous cultures, with the purpose of coordinating community development
plans; (ii) provide, through the mentioned plans, orientation and exercise control in the management of
natural resources; (iii) promote the participation of communities in the elaboration and follow-up of these
plans; and, (iv) promote implementation of development projects and the formation of cooperatives and
other traditional communal organizations.
Second, the ongoing effort made by the Argentinean Government with the support of the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF) to develop norms, policies and practices in order to implement the
Intemational Convention on the Protection of Biodiversity (1992), establishing priorities and action plans.
For this purpose, INAI has hosted several national encounters among indigenous peoples in Argentina to
assure their participation in the process and the inclusion of indigenous rights in any new legislation on
protected areas.
Despite these efforts, numerous issues remain to be addressed before indigenous people's protected areas
can be created and made operational and sustainable. These include: (a) design of sustainable-use systems
of important and scarce natural resources and protection of fragile ecosystems; (b) agro-ecological
constraints associated with current resource-use practices; (c) weakness in the current managerial capacity
of indigenous communities to address these problems using modem means, as well as to deal with powerful
external private sector and political interests that provoke internal disputes and factionalism among
indigenous leaders.
The strategy of the Government of Argentina to address these issues is to build upon and strengthen the
social capital of indigenous organizations by supporting community-based natural resources management
systems and developing small-scale investment operations to be managed by the indigenous organizations
themselves. There is very little experience in Argentina with this strategy. Therefore, the proposed project
is designed as a pilot in three indigenous areas, formulating a methodology based on lessons learned in the
pilots, and extending the model to additional areas/communities when it is demonstrated that the
methodology is successful.
-4 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The main issue to be addressed in this project is the operationalization of the concept of indigenous
community-driven development. Progress in implementing Article 75 of the 1991 Constitution regarding
restoration and regularization of indigenous territorial rights was initially hampered by a lack of
institutional capacity on the part of the newly created 1NAI. With the support of the Bank (IDF grant of
US $ 200,000) for indigenous capacity building, the Inter-American Development Bank (grant of US $ 5
million) to strengthen INAI, and government investments in land purchase and titling, substantial progress
in land tenure security has been achieved. Further progress is now hampered by the absence of a model for
institutional and regulatory frameworks which would permit self-determination by indigenous organizations
as regards the management and utilization of natural resources in their territories.
Apart from the issuance of land titles to communities, proven methodologies for formulating sustainable
development alternatives (by securing resources for the provision of key social services and the financing of
investment sub projects as well as establishing sustainable natural resources management systems and
ensuring that indigenous organizations themselves participate directly in the design and implementation of
policy for their areas) do not as yet exist. The project will build upon these initiatives by strengthening
INAI in its objective of improving the well being of indigenous peoples, providing them with land security,
essential social services and, in cases where it is feasible, creating indigenous protected areas that will be
co-managed by local indigenous communities and the relevant government authorities. Directly engaging
local indigenous organizations in the planning and implementation of indigenous community-driven
sustainable development and in the creation of indigenous protected areas reflects a strategic choice on the
part of INAI.
An additional issue that needs careful consideration is that of gender. Indigenous peoples have demanded an
end to discriminatory practices from the dominant society and are gradually receiving responses to their
demands. Although gender differences are deeply embedded in some if not all indigenous cultures, the
project will strive to gradually end discriminatory practices and to provide incentives and opportunities so
that the gender gap is reduced.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
1 Economic   Z21 Technical    1 Social         1 Participation
1 Financial    1 Institutional   I Environmental El Other
(a) Economic. The project will provide practical experience for the local authorities in assessing the
economic viability of sub projects for the purpose of increasing community incomes. It is anticipated that
by the end of the project, decisions would be made to finance sub projects that accounted for both the
economic value of the sub project from the point of view of an internal rate of return, as well as from the
point of view of its added economic value for the community.
(b) Social. The project will also provide opportunities to learn about: (i) how to strengthen indigenous
social organization and cultures, taking into consideration the needs and interests of men and women; (ii)
how to build on their social and cultural assets in order to reduce poverty and social exclusion; (iii) how to
build capacities for community-driven development and natural resource management; (iv) how to create
incentives for government to provide more equitable goods and services to indigenous communities; (v)
how to improve networking among indigenous communities and between those communities and outside
institutions; and (vi) how to introduce ethnic and gender concerns and criteria within social programs
addressed to the poor.
-5 -



(c) Participation. By the end of the project, the institutional relationships within communities are expected
to show a substantial level of informed participation, improved balance in the levels of community
involvement by gender, and the empowering of indigenous organizations in the determination of income
generating activities. Participation of non-governmental organizations and local universities with expertise
and strong linkages to the indigenous pilot areas will also be a key feature of this project. Their
collaboration will to improve the project's knowledge about the communities and their natural and cultural
environment. They will also carry out specific field activities based on existing demand and prior
agreements with the indigenous organizations.
(d) Environment. By the end of the project, screening procedures for environmental issues in sub projects
and community investments will have resulted in activities that are protecting the natural assets of the
communities (soil, water, forest cover) and contributing to biodiversity conservation.
(e) Institutional. Two sets of institutional linkages will be critical to success of the project. First, at the
community level, it is expected that by the end of the project, the LMUs would be fully functional and
considered to be essential parts of the community. This implies that relationships between the traditional
authorities and the LMU staff will be harmonious and productive and that the community at large will
identify with the LMU. Second, the project will produce replicable working relationships between the
LMUs and central authorities that will provide needed links to sources of technical and financial support,
market and political access, and legal protection. The assumption is that this will be INAI in the first
instance, but other useful institutions may also link for the purposes of support.
(]) Technical. A preliminary assessment has been made of the technical limits to introducing new
income generating activities into the pilot communities. The project will explore different
technological alternatives that combine traditional and modern knowledge and to provide
experience and knowledge of the technical constrains and opportunities for such activities.
Overall, meeting these expectations will demonstrate the feasibility of a program to scale-up the operation
to include a larger number of indigenous communities and community clusters. An assessment of progress
will occur approximately 18 months after the project becomes effective with a full assessment of readiness
for replication made after 30 months.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative           Bank               GEF       %
Componet               Sector        Costs      % Of    financing   Bank  financing   GEF
i_ (USSM)    Total    (US$M)  financing  WUSWM)  financing
Social and Cultural       Other Social Sector    1.60     27.2      1.40     28.0      0.00     0.0
Strengthening of Indigenous
Communities
Sustainable Use of Natural    Natural Resources  2.20     37.4      1.87     37.4      0.00     0.0
Resources                 Management
Project Management        Institutional          1.37     23.3      1.28     25.6      0.00     0.0
Development
Contingencies             Natural Resources      0.66      11.2     0.40      8.0      0.00     0.0
Management
-6 -



Global Components
0.00      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.00
Total Project Costs                   5.83     99.1      4.95     99.0     0.00     0.0
Front-end fee                    0.05       0.9     0.05      1.0     0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                   5.88     100.0     5.00    100.0     0.00     0.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
2.1 Pilot Areas of Indigenous Community Development Level:
The LMU will be composed of "indigenous promoters" (technically prepared members of the indigenous
community), nominated by traditional authorities (Confederaci6n Mapuche, Consejo Kolla de Finca
Santiago and Consejo de Caciques y Comisiones Directivas de las comunidades Diaguita Calchaquies y
Quilmes) and selected by the Project Management Unit (PMU) on the basis of previously-approved terms
of reference and selection criteria. The LMU will be strengthened by a Project Coordinator/Administrator
and a Secretary/Accountant, complemented on an as-needed basis by a Technical Group comprised of
short-term technical professionals jointly selected by traditional authorities and INAI.
The LMU will be resident in the Indigenous Pilot Area throughout the life of the project. The LMU will
design and manage proposed activities at the local level, and monitor and supervise the delivery of services,
works and goods. Implementation of projects will also be done by other parties (NGOs, community
groups) besides the traditional community organization, but on the basis of approved plans and the prior
consent of the traditional community organization. Approval of projects in amounts less than US$ 50,000
can be authorized by the LMU, after it has received the no-objection from INAI. The first three sub
projects of each LMU above this level will be sent to the World Bank for no-objection. A Project
Operations Manual will be finalized as a condition for project effectiveness. It will describe the required
relationships between the LMU, local community-based organizations and other stakeholders at the local
level, as well as the relationships between these, the PMU and INAI at the project level (including
respective duties, responsibilities, clearances, procedures for administration of funds - operating a local
bark account - and implementation of activities within the zone).
2.2 Project Management Level:
The Director of INAI will maintain overall administrative responsibility for the project's successful
implementation. INAI's Director will also chair an Advisory Council (AC), comprised of two indigenous
representatives of each pilot area plus representatives of relevant secretariats and ministries, that will meet
as needed. The AC function will be to facilitate the timely response and coordination of responsible public
agencies to new initiatives stemming from the Indigenous Pilot Area. The content of the Project
Operational Manual was agreed during appraisal. It will include, inter-alia, a description of: (a)
administration arrangements and relationships; (b) financial management arrangements and resource flows
(including auditing requirements); (c) procurement procedures, including a detailed description of
responsibilities between the AC, PM[ and LMU; (d) standard terms-of-reference for consultants to be
hired by the LMU; (e) terms-of-reference for pilot-specific environmental assessments; (f) sample letters of
invitation, procedures for evaluation, samples of agreements, and sample contracts for consulting services;
and (g) monitoring, evaluation and reporting requirements. Approval of the Project Operational Manual is
a condition of loan effectiveness.
The PMU will present to the Bank for review and approval draft annual Operating Plans and Budgets no
later than November 15 of each year. A signed agreement governing the relationship between INAI and the
- 7 -



communities will be a condition of disbursement for the financing of sub projects in each Indigenous Pilot
Area.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Monitoring of the project inputs and implementation progress will be the responsibility of the PMU as part
of its budget management and reporting system. It will report semi-annually based on reports from the
pilot areas. The monitoring reports will be prepared initially by the three LMUs which will present the
results to the target communities and traditional authorities for feedback and comments, and submit them in
draft to the PMU. Project outputs will be monitored as part of this process.
To maximize learning for all participants, the PMU will present the evaluations of the results achieved and
documented in the monitoring reports to a mid-term workshop. Broad, qualitative (efficacy of
capacity-building, effectiveness of conflict-management mechanisms, etc.) and quantitative (numbers of
inputs, participants, etc.) indicators for the entire project were agreed upon during project appraisal.
These indicators will be described in the Operational Manual. The mid-term review workshop will provide
an opportunity to draw conclusions from experience and modify practices as required. The workshop will
include members of the PMIU staff, LMU staff, and other partners collaborating in the project and will be
open to the communities benefiting. Monitoring reports by the PMU will reflect the findings and
conclusions of this workshop.
During appraisal it was agreed that the PM[J will maintain a Project Information and Monitoring System
with reporting formats agreed with the Bank through the period of project implementation. The Bank will
receive quarterly project management reports not later than April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year,
commencing on April 30, 2001, linking project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of activities
carried out during the quarter. In addition, an Annual Progress Report on project implementation will be
presented by January 31 of each year.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
* Other (specify)
Not applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Since the project is a pilot operation, full cost recovery is not a project objective. However, fiscal
sustainability is an important consideration in the design of this LIL. Although the GOA has committed
itself to improve the living conditions of indigenous peoples, the current level of expenditure on indigenous
development activities is low. The planned investments in the project, such as the training of INAI staff and
-8 -



the development of materials for indigenous peoples, have low recurrent costs and can be covered by
current budgets.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
During project preparation, international technical experts in collaboration with indigenous experts living in
the beneficiary communities conducted a preliminary technical assessment of possibilities and constraints
related to land tenure, natural, resource-use patterns and the social and cultural institutions that are relevant
to the establishment of indigenous protected areas in a manner consistent with indigenous cultures and
environmentally sustainable practices. Technical feasibility of each specific sub project investment will be
analyzed as part of the decision-making process by the LMU and PMU. See Annex 11 for greater detail.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
INAI has a proven record, as demonstrated in successful land titling and social investment project
activities, for management of indigenous initiatives. INAI will be assisted by UCAF (Financial
Management Unit of the Ministry of Social Development and the Environment) which is successfully
providing support to a major World Bank-financed project (see section 4.4).
4.2 Project management:
Overall, INAI has the capacity to manage this project. At the pilot area level, there is clear evidence of the
capacity of indigenous organizations to design, implement and assess small development initiatives, as
expressed during the IDF Training Program. The relationship between INAI and UCAF is to be refined as
part of the project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement would be the responsibility of a Project Management Unit (PMU) established within INAI.
Since the PMU does not have the capacity to carry out procurement, an action plan to strengthen the
PMU's capacity was agreed on. Due to the relatively small value and large number of contracts, only a few
of them would be subject to prior-review by the Bank. Thus, procurement review is expected to primarily
be carried out during supervision missions, one every six months. In addition, the Bank shall commission
an independent procurement audit by mid-term.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management assessment has indicated that UCAF can adequately manage financial matters,
including accounts and budget balances (a 4B certification has been given). Nevertheless, the relationship
between INAI and UCAF will have to be formally agreed as well as the TORs of the officials acting as
liaisons between them.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMN  preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Diagnostic-level environmental analyses, conducted as part of project preparation, have identified major
environmental issues and opportunities. Site-specific environmental analyses will be conducted for the three
areas and will provide the basis for the elaboration of a natural resources management framework as well
as the establishment of environmental management plans for mitigation of adverse imnpacts of development
investnents identified. The project will finance environmental studies and environmental management
-9-



plans as needed as part of the preparation of specific sub projects or investments.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: At the beginning of project
implementation and before disbursement
of sub project funds.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A project screening mechanism will be created and operational at the beginning of the project so as to
avoid, minimize or mitigate possible adverse impacts. Particular attention will be paid to activities which
may lead to extensive harvesting of existing forests, the introduction of exotic plant or animal species, the
use of agrochemical inputs in agriculture, etc.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A comprehensive social assessment was conducted as part of project preparation, which identified major
socioeconomic, cultural, political and other aspects that characterize the targeted indigenous groups. One
of the most innovative elements of the project approach is derived from the social assessment process: the
direct participation of local community-based organizations in the identification, design and implementation
of development investments and resource-management decisions. The diagnostic phase of this work
included not only indigenous communities, but also non-indigenous stakeholders with interest in the pilot
areas. It also identified main current and potential conflicts and tentative strategies for conflict
management. Social analysis and participatory planning have already produced a list of possible
community-driven, income-earning sub projects in each indigenous pilot area; each project component, with
guidance criteria for the selection of sub project organization of investments at the local level; consensus
mechanisms and institutional arrangements; and, the selection of performance indicators, monitoring and
evaluation procedures. See Annex 11 for greater detail.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has benefited from a series of workshops supported by the IDF grant over the period
1996-1998 which brought together more than 1200 indigenous leaders pertaining to 14 ethnic groups in
Argentina. Some 22 local and regional workshops were held in 6 provinces characterized by the largest
concentrations of indigenous population. These leaders represented more than 20 indigenous organizations.
The workshops took 3-4 days and involved the participation of government officials from the federal and
provincial levels. From these encounters, the idea of indigenous pilot areas was presented by indigenous
organizations themselves, and accepted by INAI as an alternative development strategy worth exploring.
In the process of project preparation, planning meetings were held by INAI with the following
community-based organizations, NGOs, academic and government institutions active in each of the
- 10-



proposed pilot areas:
(a) in Neuquen: the Mapuche Confederation de Neuquen, the Mapuche Coordinating Council, the
Interstate Corporation of Pulmari , the University of Comahue, the Planning and Development Action
Council for Neuquen Province and the Nuequen Development Corporation;
(b) in Tucumakn: the Center for Investigation and Indigenous Training, the Technological University, the
National Institute of Agricultural Technology, the National University of Tucuman and the Provincial
Social Council, and
(c) in Salta: the Ecological Research Laboratory of the Yungas, the Integral Promotion Association, the
International Foundation for Science; the World Wildlife Fund; INTA; the German Technical Cooperation
Agency; and the Agricultural Social Program of Salta.
Each of these organizations or agencies has an operational field presence in the proposed pilot area, and all
the community-based organizations are indigenous peoples organizations based in the communities that
comprise the proposed pilot areas. These organizations will be potential partners to achieve project
success.
Six indigenous professionals, two from each pilot area, nominated by community assemblies and selected
by INAI, were hired by the Bank to help prepare the project for their respective groups. These indigenous
consultants worked closely with INAI officials and international experts in gathering baseline social,
environmental and economic information, designing preliminary strategies for indigenous protected areas,
and ensuring that project operational arrangements are compatible with indigenous culture and expectations
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See above.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See Section on Institutional Arrangements.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See Section on Monitoring and Evaluation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies a  ly to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   * Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     * Yes O No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 * Yes O No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  * Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             O Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
- 11 -



D Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)          D Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Governrent of Argentina has conducted a Social Assessment illustrating the readiness of indigenous
communities to proceed with the project. Compliance with additional safeguard policies will be assured
through screening of sub projects to be financed during project implementation. The project itself fulfills
OD 4.20 requirements since indigenous peoples are the direct beneficiaries and participants.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The targeted areas do not benefit from      M         INAI will coordinate with other government
infrastructure and the provision of social            agencies and donors in order to improve
services from other development                       indigenous communities access to
programs and institutions in a                        complementary goods and services, such as
complementary way.                                    water and sanitation, health and education.
Economic conditions do not permit the       N         Emphasis is on investments on micro-enterprises
establishment of new enterprises.                     which largely respond to local demand.
From Components to Outputs
Indigenous leaders and                      N         Besides strengthening indigenous communities
GOA will not remain committed to project              and the implementation capacity of INAI, the
as a learning process.                                project will dedicate all efforts necessary to
foster positive interaction patterns between
them, thus ensuring their interest in the project.
Key studies, consultation processes, and    M         Key studies such as the social assessment and
pilot activities are not executed on time.            consultation processes have advanced during
project preparation. Indicative plans for each
indigenous community, with a preliminary
identification and prioritization of pilot
activities, have also been prepared.
Delays in procurement of goods and          M         INAI will create the conditions for effective
services.                                             procurement. In addition, the presence of the
Co-Task Team leader in the Argentina Resident
Office will allow for a close supervision to
ensure that these actions are done in a timely
manner.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
- 12 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Resolving land tenure issues is likely to produce controversy in at least some cases. At present both federal
and state authorities have constitutional rights vis-a-vis land holdings so that tensions beyond those
normally expected between indigenous people and "government" may be expected. The project would not
become involved in these disputes. INAI, however, is expected to continue its active support for the
regularization of indigenous community lands.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Establishment of appropriate accounting procedures for INAI and the LMUs to receive and manage
project finances.
Issuance of a Project Operational Manual.
2. Other.
Disbursement of sub project funds for each LMU to begin when collaboration agreement between INAI and
the indigenous community is reached.
H. Readiness for Implementation
OI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the furst year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
C1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
LJ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jorge E. Uquillas Rodas           John Redwood                      Myra Alexander
TeaM Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-13-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Rural development and   Acknowledgment by        Project sponsored        Improved management of
poverty reduction as well as independent evaluators that assessments      natural resources and the
protection and management knowledge and practices                         environment would enhance
of natural resources.   (conditions generating                            sustainable community
adoption of technology) for                      development through
the sustainable use of                           improvement in the
natural resources have                           productivity of
improved in targeted areas                       resource-based activities.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
The well being of       Acknowledgment by        Project sponsored        No outside factors like
Argentina's indigenous   indigenous communities that self-evaluations     natural disasters and/or
peoples is improved by   living conditions are                            economic crisis have
implementing community  improving, including a                            intervened to affect living
driven approaches to    better gender balance, since                      conditions of indigenous
community development and project started                                 communities.
environmental protection.  implementation.
Objective measures of   Independent survey of
quality of life indicators.   conditions
GEF Operational Program:
- 14 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development     Outcome I Impact         Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Establish the basis for  -Local indigenous social    Project-sponsored    GOA commitment to
community -driven       organizations legally    participatory monitoring and indigenous community
development and the     recognized and functioning  impact evaluations (with   development remains strong.
protection and management by the end of project.  baseline and follow-up
of natural resources on  -Indigenous communities   studies) to be undertaken    Key legal/fiscal/institutional
indigenous community    participating in capacity    with results incorporated   reforms will be adopted by
lands. This includes    building activities.     into community           Provincial and/or national
strengthening social    -Mechanisms for solving    development and natural    Congress as well as by
organization and culture and land tenure conflicts in    resource management plans. institutions involved in
building indigenous     communities developed and                         social sector issues and
capacities for sustainable  tested by end of project.                     indigenous affairs.
development in a        - A legal framework for the
gender-sensitive manner, as creation of Indigenous                        Stakeholders agree to a
well as improving the   Protected Areas has been                          process of land
delivery of government  developed by first year of                        regularization and
services to indigenous  project.                                          co-management of natural
peoples, reinforcing the    -Five year community                          resources with indigenous
links between government  sustainable development                         organizations.
agencies and indigenous    plans designed by year 1.
communities.            -At least 2 successful new                        Political interference from
types of economic                                government and traditional
alternatives identified and                      conflicts among indigenous
tested in each targeted area                     peoples are kept at a
(including activities led by                     minimum level.
women) by year 2 of
project.
-Adoption rates for
sustainable production
activities have increased by
end of project.
-National Plan of
Indigenous Communities
Development formulated by
year 2 of project.
Global Objective:
- 15 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptbons
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(i) Key social and cultural  -3 participatory diagnostic  Results of semi-annual  The targeted areas benefit
factors of community driven studies by year I     monitoring and evaluation  from infrastructure and the
development identified  -3 community organizations (with pilot activities  provision of social services
strengthened in development evaluated on completion)   from other development
skills by end of project  reported to PM`U ensures   programs and institutions in
results properly         a complementary way.
incorporated into
community development
plans.
(ii) Improved local     -3 integrated plans of                             Economic conditions permit
development and natural    community development and                       the establishment of new
resource management plans natural resources                                enterprises.
formulated               management by year I
- process to achieve land
tenure security initiated in 3
communities of target areas
by end of project
(iii) Innovative approaches  -6 pilot community sub
to community development projects in agroforestry and
and sustainable use of   "eco" and "ethno" tourism
natural resources tested    implemented by year 2
- 15 community sub projects
of basic infrastructure for
production implemented by
end of project
(iv) Coherent and effective  -environmental screening of
institutional arrangements  sub projects in place by year
identified at the central and  1
local levels, including an    -I Project Management Unit
efficient project monitoring  and 3 Local Management
and evaluation system    Units created and
operational by end of project
-I Monitoring and
Evaluation System created
and operating efficiently by
end of project
(v) Possible follow-up   -I APL proposal designed
investments identified   by year 2 of project
-16 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                        Outputs)
(1) Social and Cultural  (1) US$1.6 million      Results of participatory    Indigenous leaders and
Strengthening of Indigenous                      monitoring and evaluation   GOA remain committed to
Communities                                      reported to the PMU; PMU  project as a learning
*  Support to local                              ensures results properly    process.
indigenous organizations                         incorporated into plans and  Timely execution of key
*  Support to indigenous                         prepares regular reports.   studies, consultation
cultural heritage                                                         process, and pilot activities.
*  Land regularization                                                    Timely procurement of
(including legal assistance                                               goods and services
and conflict resolution)
* Planning Local
Community Development
and Natural Resource
Management
* Cultural exchange and
gender workshops
* Learning events
(2) Sustainable Use of  (2) US$2.2 million
Natural Resources
* Water management
* Agricultural
diversification
* Pasture management
* Forestry
* Artisan production
* Market exchanges
Tourism
(3) Project Management    (3) US$1.4 million
* Implementation
arrangements
* Monitoring and
evaluation
* Dissemination of lessons
learned
(4) Unallocated         (4) US$0.6 million
-17 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.60 million
Social and Cultural Strengthening of Indigenous Communities
The social and cultural strengthening of indigenous communities will be supported through capacity
building for self-development and the promotion of activities closely related to their traditional knowledge
and culture, including handicrafts, ethno or cultural tourism strategic planning and cultural exchanges and
networking. An activity of special interest to the project is the provision technical assistance in legal and
conflict resolution issues related to the establishment of Indigenous Pilot Areas.
Special technical support will be given to strengthen the capacity of INAI and indigenous organizations to
carry out legal and regulatory actions related to the irmplementation of this project. Actions expected in this
component will cover: assistance to complete the registration and regularization of property rights in the
three pilot areas; preparation of subsidiary legal instruments related to the establishment of the IPA; legal
instruments to guarantee the management of natural resources by indigenous peoples; mechanisms to
assure active involvement and participation of indigenous authorities in the new legal and regulatory
framework; custom-tailored solutions to legal conflict in protected areas. This will require the close
collaboration of INAI with the indigenous communities and their traditional authorities in order to
advance/consolidate the land regularization process and secure indigenous rights over land and natural
resources.
This component comprises the following sub-components:
1. Capacity building and studies
2. Technical assistance in legal matters and conflict resolution
3. Local planning
4. Cultural exchange and gender workshops
5. Learning events
6. Improving basic social services
The design of specific sub projects will be based on key concepts which have been analyzed and reached
full agreement during project preparation, namely: self-development, co-management and
consensus-building. (1) Self-development consists in the right and capacity of indigenous peoples to decide
on an autonomous manner the contents and methods of development programs to be carried out in their
communities and lands. Specifically, these programs should be compatible with traditional cultural values
and strengthen the culture of indigenous peoples. (2) Co-management is understood as a process of
negotiation and consensus building between the different public and private social actors that intervene in
the administration of land and natural resources as well as in the implementation of economic activities that
affect indigenous peoples. Co-management requires of an active process of conflict resolution and
networking. (3) Consensus-building is closely related to the previous concept. Consensus is a necessary
condition for the strengthening of indigenous communities and their organizations so that they can
administer efficiently their lands and natural resources and build partnerships with other social actors in
order to secure their land rights and cultural identity.
Project Component 2 - US$2.20 million
- 18 -



Sustainable Use of Natural Resources
In each Indigenous Pilot Area the project will formulate a community-based natural resources management
plan, which delineates priority resources for conservation, areas for sustainable development investments,
and specific development sub projects Proposed sub projects will each require further elaboration of
specific environmental mitigation mechanisms. The Bank loan will finance environmental analysis,
resources assessments, applied research, extension services, soil/water/forest management planning,
marketing studies for selected sub projects (to be financed on a demand-driven basis, including, among
others, soil and pasture improvement, community forestry, watershed management, micro-irrigation, spot
improvement of rural roads, marketing, post-harvest community infrastructure, and technical assistance for
agriculture, livestock, management of archeological sites, eco-tourism etc.). A gender approach will be
adopted, so as to ensure that both men and women have access to the goods and services offered by the
project. In sum, this component comprises the following sub-components:
1. Pilot water management and agricultural diversification projects
2. Pilot pastures and livestock management
3. Pilot forestry and agroforestry sub projects
4. Artisan production
,. Pilot eco- and ethno-tourism projects
6. Basic infrastructure for production
Detailed sub project eligibility criteria would be included in a Project Operational Manual acceptable to the
Bank. The tentative strategy for protection and development in each pilot area is briefly outlined below
(see Annex 11 for greater details).
For the Mapuche pilot area (Hacienda Pulmari, Neuquen Province), the expected specific benefits will be
the strengthening of traditional institutions and practices to facilitate integration of dispersed populations
and consensus mechanisms among the six communities that currently occupy the Pulmari area and other
stakeholders to manage communal pastures, forests, and alternative opportunities such as eco-tourism
Evidence that the project propitiated better living conditions for Mapuche communities, stronger cohesion
and control on decisions that affect their lives, territory and culture and environmental protection of the
existing biodiversity and endangered species (e.g. the Pehuen Tree), is expected in the project evaluation
results.
For the Kolla pilot area (Finca Santiago, Salta Province), the expected specific benefits will entail the
consolidation of internal economic exchange system between the Kolla communities located in the high and
low areas, consensus mechanisms to manage communal pastures, forests, irrigation water and profits
resulting from the value-added processes to forest resources and other market oriented economic
opportunities. Evidence that the project improved current living conditions for the poorest communities of
the highlands (Puna), initiated of market-production activities, generated stronger cohesion among the
Kollas, and better integration between the Kolla traditional institutions and local government is expected in
the project evaluation results.
For the DiaguitalCalchaqui/Quilmes pilot area (Amaicha del Valle, Tucuman Province) the expected
results will be a self-developed, integrated cultural and natural resource strategy based on the management
of pre-Hispanic archaeological places for cultural tourism purposes, for the purposes of generation of
income and the rescue of traditional cultural identity, combined with services and rational use of communal
water resources and subsistence productive activities.
- 19-



A participatory social assessment process started during preparation will continue during implementation.
It will be conducted by community-based organizations to identify social issues, conflict management
mechanisms and potentially equitable solutions. Major social issues already identified center on equity
among factions of the community and enhancing the opportunities for women and youth to reverse current
out-migration pattems and consolidate communities around shared development activities. The transparent
allocation of project development resources in relation to the solutions agreed through consensus by
beneficiaries regarding equity, women and youth is expected to contribute significantly to building
solidarity, mutual trust and social capital in each indigenous groups.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.43 million
Project Management
This component will have the following sub-components:
1. Project administration
2. Monitoring and evaluation
3. Communications and dissemination
Project administration support includes incremental costs of a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be
created in INAI consisting of the Director of INAI, three INAI technicians, and necessary administrative
personnel. A Sub projects Committee to review and approve expenditures above a threshold will be
established on an as needed basis. The PMU will be responsible for overall coordination, monitoring,
mid-term review, evaluation and reporting. Local Management Units (LMU) will be created in each of the
three pilot areas by INAI, consisting of a Project Manager/Administrator and a Secretary/Accountant. In
addition, a series of Technical Advisers will be hired for short-term assignments to work with the Technical
Group (TG) in the LMU on project implementation as well as supporting the monitoring and reporting
functions of the LMU to PMU. Terms of Reference for the LMU and the Technical Advisers will be
specified in the operations manual for each Indigenous Community Pilot Area. The project will also finance
the incremental equipment needs for the LMU function, including vehicles, computers, and accounting and
planning software for each of the three areas. As needed INAI will provide administrative support from
counterpart resources from its headquarters staff under the administrative responsibility of the Director.
Each pilot zone LMU will contract short-term consultants to serve as a Technical Group (TG) to support
the design, implementation and evaluation of specific development sub projects The project will finance
equipment for the TG function, including computers, telephone, fax, photocopier, etc. The TG will also
generate primary data for the monitoring and reporting requirements of INAI, as well as for capacity
building of community leaders and representatives in carrying out these functions. The project will foster
training workshops, encounters among stakeholders, meetings among clusters of beneficiaries to
incorporate them in program activities as well as open community meetings at which LMU quarterly
monitoring reports are presented and discussed prior to their submission to the PMU. The project will also
finance a mid-term review among all stakeholders to identify lessons learned and make adjustments to the
strategies of each protected area as needed
Independent contractors will carry out an end-of-project Development Impact Assessment. While the
project management (monitoring) function will focus mainly on performance indicators, the concurrent
evaluation will be designed to focus upon results on the ground as measured by outcome indicators and
reviewed with the community. The indicators may include accumulation of assets, rising social cohesion,
initiation of new credit relationships by producers, purchase agreements with private sector buyers,
innovation of productive activities, adoption of conflict management and consensus building mechanisms,
- 20 -



etc. The evaluation will assess the viability of the models established for the three pilot indigenous areas for
the purpose of scaling up by INAI to other regions and indigenous communities.
An active communications and dissemination program will be supported as part of this component. Using
the appropriate media (radio, printed materials, audiovisuals), the program will keep the indigenous
communities and other stakeholders informed about the project. It will reproduce and distribute results of
the studies undertaken during the life of the project, the lessons leamed, and the advances made in the
implementation process.
- 21 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million    US $million
1. Social and Cultural Strengthening of Indigenous         1.20         0.40          1.60
Communities
0.00
2. Sustainable Use of Natural Resources                    1.40          0.80         2.20
0.00
0.00
3. Project Management                                      1.10          0.33         1.43
Total Baseline Cost                                        3.70          1.53         5.23
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.60          0.00         0.60
Total Project Costs               4.30         1.53          5.83
Front-end fee                     0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required               4.30          1.58          5.88
-22 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
NA
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
NA
Main Assumptions:
NA
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
NA
-23 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
Not applicable
-24 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
Procurement
A. General
All procurement of goods under the Project would be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines,
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits " dated January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultants would be employed in accordance with the
Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for procurement are described below and the estimated
amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The thresholds contract values for the use of each
method are established in Table B.
B. Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
Procurement for the Project would be the responsibility of a Project Management Unit (PMU) established
within National Institute for Indigenous Affairs (INAI-Instituto Nacional de Asuntos Indigenas). The PMU
will receive financial and procurement management support from Financial Management Unit of the
Ministry of Social Development and the Environment (UCAF), which is currently handling another
Bank-financed project (AR 4398 - Social Protection IV).
A procurement capacity assessment of UCAF was carried out by Andres Mac Gaul, Procurement
Specialist, LCOPR, and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office on June 2, 2000.
The "Overall Procurement Risk" was assessed as "high".
The assessment determined that the UCAF's capacity to carry out procurement is not adequate due to its
lack of experience on Bank procurement, particularly in respect of goods and consulting services. On the
other hand, UCAF's information and office equipment, support staff, and record keeping system are overall
adequate, although the latter should be improved.
To handle the risks and to strengthen the PMU's capacity the action plan that follows was agreed on:
1 .    Before October 31, 2000, a Procurement Specialist acceptable to the Bank should be appointed by
the PMU. This consultant will help draft the project OM (Operational Manual) and carry out procurement
work on an "on call" basis. At least, the consultant should assist the PMU -preferably within UCAF- in
preparing standard documents and in handling all the procurement subject to prior review by the Bank,
with exception of the contracts to be used for the hiring of individuals. In this case, the model of contract
in use in the Social Protection IV Project can be used, since the Bank has already reviewed it.
2.    Before LIL effectiveness the OM of the Project should be approved by the Bank and adopted by
the Borrower. The OM should detail -inter alia- procedures on record keeping, including specifics on
logging and filing correspondence.
Local communities, which will be beneficiaries of the grants, are represented by Indigenous Organizations
-25 -



with legal personality, and basic political and administrative structures. Most of these organizations have
participated in previous development projects sponsored by Provincial Governments and NGOs and jointly
administered grants ranging from US$ 30,000 to 40,000. However, these Indigenous Organizations have
only recently been established as structured communities. Consequently, they have little experience in
financial and administrative matters, including procurement. Most of them have only very basic accounting
notions and systems. Only one of the organizations currently holds a checking account and only few have
any office equipment or adequate space where to establish administrative offices.
The communities' participation in the process would be facilitated by Local Management Units (LMIJs)
reporting to the PMU. LMUs would comprise elected representatives of the communities and
technical/administrative staff whose appointment would be cleared by the PMU to ensure that they are
qualified and the selection process is transparent. The LMUs would be responsible for making
procurement decisions, maintaining accurate procurement records for the sub projects administering the
contracts jointly with the beneficiary communities, and monitoring implementation. Consequently, grant
beneficiaries, officially represented by the Indigenous Organizations, would be actively involved in
procurement for the sub projects by participating in procurement planning, selection of
supplier/contractors through shopping procedures, and selection of individual consultants, where these
methods are appropriate. Contracts to be awarded on the basis of NCB and contracts with consulting firms,
if any, would be procured by UCAF. The LMUs would carry out their responsibilities under the
supervision of and with technical assistance from the PMU. The PMU, with financial management support
from UCAF would be solely responsible for managing the project account and making payments in
tranches at the beneficiary's request and based on work completed. The details of this assistance would be
included in the Project Operational Manual.
T'he last CPAR for Argentina indicates that some of the requirements of domestic procurement legislation
are not in accordance with Bank procurement policy and procedures. Consequently, the following Special
Provisions should be included in the Loan Agreement:
1.    The results of bid evaluations shall remain confidential until award of contracts. After award, the
PMU/UCAF may disclose upon request to a bidder information relating to its own bid, and upon request by
any bidder, a summary of the evaluation and comparison of bids may be disclosed.
2.     Time for bid preparation shall not be less than 10 days in the case of shopping, and 30 days in the
case of NCB, respectively.
3.     Promissory notes issued by bidders or checks issued by local banks shall not be an acceptable form
of bid or performance securities.
4.     The price of bidding documents shall reflect the cost of reproducing and mailing the documents and
not be related to the estimated cost of the contract.
5.     The standard technical specifications for office technology issued by the Secretariat of the Public
Function shall not be used for the purchase of office equipment financed by the loan.
C. Procurement Arrangements
1. Procurement of Works
No procurement of Works is anticipated under the project.
- 26 -



2. Procurement of Goods
The Project would finance several small contract packages for the purchase of vehicles, computers and
software, and miscellaneous office equipment for the operational needs of the PMU and the LMUs
estimated to cost a total amount of US$280,000 equivalent. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$280,000 equivalent, may be procured following
shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Shopping procedures, including a standard invitation to submit quotations, would be agreed before the first
invitation is issued.
3. Consultant Services
The loan would finance technical assistance, studies and capacity building. Consulting services would be
required to strengthen the capacity of INAI and indigenous organizations to carry out legal and regulatory
actions related to the project, including conflict resolution related to the establishment of the Indigenous
Protected Areas and assistance to complete the registration of property rights. Capacity building would
include self-development and promotion of activities related to the indigenous communities' traditional
culture.
Firms
Contracts with firms, if any, would be awarded following a Quality and Cost Based Selection process, in
accordance with Section II of the Consultant Guidelines. For contracts costing $ 100,000 or less selection
may be on the basis of Least Cost Selection method. Contracts for specialized advisory services for
indigenous communities costing $ 50,000 or less may be awarded on the basis of Consultant's
Qualifications.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services for project administration and monitoring that do not require of a team effort
may be contracted with individuals up to an aggregate amount of $420,000. The Individual consultants
would be selected on a competitive basis in accordance Section V of the Consultants Guidelines. As a
minimum, individuals would be recruited by comparison of qualifications of at least three qualified
candidates. The process followed to select individual consultants shall be described in detail in the
Operational Manual.
4. Sub projects
Grants for an aggregate amount of US$2,430,000 equivalent would be awarded for the social and cultural
strengthening of indigenous communities. Sub-project eligibility and selection criteria agreed with the
Bank would be detailed in the Operational Manual. Procurement of goods and contracting of consulting
services by the communities shall be carried out on the basis of competitive procedures similar to those
used for procurement by UCAF. The OM shall detail those procedures.
In addition to their participation in the LMUs, communities would be involved in making decisions
affecting the Project through their representatives in the Advisory Council responsible for ensuring the
active participation of the communities in the process and supervising the overall progress in meeting
- 27 -



Project objectives.
The Project would also finance technical assistance to further assess internal decisional processes,
organizational and administrative/financial capacity of the Indigenous Organization, analyze lessons
learned from their previous and current involvement in implementing sub projects and develop simple
standard contracting and conflict resolution methodologies, technical specifications, manuals and
procedures for transportation and maintenance of basic goods and equipment. Technical assistance and
training for capacity building would aim at strengthening the indigenous organizations' procurement and
financial management capacity to make sure that by the end of the Project they are capable to carry out
procurement independently and have adequate financial management and reporting capabilities. A specific
joint action plan to build the organizations' and the communities' administrative capacity would be also
included in the agreements concluded by the PMU and each of the Provinces in which these are located.
5. Prior Review
The review of procurement actions by the Bank is presented in Table B. Due to their relatively small value
and large number, only a few contracts would be subject to prior-review by the Bank. Thus, procurement
review is expected to primarily be carried out during supervision, as described below.
An OM would be prepared and adopted by the PMU prior to loan effectiveness to ensure acceptable
procedures for procurement, accounting, disbursement and auditing, as agreed for all IBRD operations,
and provide proper guidance for the project specific operations, including relations with the LMUJs, the
Provincial Governments and beneficiaries of the grants. The OM will also be updated to include specific
operating and control mechanisms agreed under the financial and physical monitoring system.
6. Procurement Supervision
Procurement supervision missions should be carried out every six months by a Procurement Specialist (PS)
or Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and include a review of: (i) the PMU's capacity; (ii) the
procurement plan for the project, including a timetable for procurement actions anticipated during the next
12 months; (iii) the PMU's monitoring system; and (iv) complete records for one in every five contracts (for
goods, works, and consulting services, respectively). The PS or PAS should perform selected physical
inspections of the goods received and meet with selected suppliers/contractors, whenever possible. During
the mission the PS or PAS will discuss with PMIJ staff procurement for the project as well as under the
grants, including the respective procurement plans prepared by the LMUs. In addition, the PS or PAS will
visit at least one LMU each time to review their capacity and examine the files of selected contracts for
each type of procurement.
In addition, the Bank shall commission an independent procurement audit by mid-term.
- 28 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB          Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.00           0.28          0.00          0.28
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.20)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00           0.82          0.00          0.82
(Consulting Services)             (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.80)        (0.00)        (0.80)
4. Community Sub Projects          0.00           0.00           2.93          0.00          2.93
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.43)        (0.00)        (2.43)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00           0.05          0.00          0.05
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.05)        (0.00)        (0.05)
Training                           0.00           0.00           0.77          0.00          0.77
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.71)        (0.00)         (0.71)
Operating and Unallocated          0.00           0.00           1.03          0.00          1.03
Costs 31                           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.81)        (0.00)         (0.81)
Total                            0.00           0.00          5.88           0.00          5.88
___________________________    (0.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)        (0.00)        (5.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
Includes shopping, consulting services, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) on-lending to communities.
3/ Operating $370 (250) and Unallocated Costs $660 (560) have been added in the table due to format limitations.
-29 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS       QBS      SFB       LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category
A. Firms           0.10      0.00     0.00      0.30      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.40
(0. 1 0)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.40)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.42      0.00     0.00      0.42
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.40)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.40)
Total   0.10     0.00      0.00      0.30     0.42      0.00      0.00      0.82
(0.10)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.40)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.80)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 30 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                      <100,000                Shopping          First 3 contracts; approx.
$75,000
3. Services Firms             >100,000                 QCBS                      All
>50,000                  LCS                   First three
<50,000                   CQ                      Nil
Individuals         >50,000            Guidelines, Section V          All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $ 1,000,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
A procurement audit shall be carried out at mid term.
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 31 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
A financial management assessment was carried out by Susana Cirigliano (LCCOA) in May 2000 and found that
the implementing agency currently satisfies the Bank's minimum financial requirements and meets the conditions
stated in Annex 4-B of the LACI Implementation Handbook. An action plan and timetable has been agreed to
remedy some inadequacies identified and is enclosed to the certificate.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million           Financing Percentage
Goods                                        0.20                          70%
Consulting Services                          0.80                          100%
Sub-projects                                 2.43                          80%
Training                                     0.71                           90%
Operating Costs                              0.25                  100% the first $125,000,
60% the next $80,000 and
40% the rest.
Unallocated                                  0.56
Total Project Costs                          4.95
Front-end fee          0.05                          100%
Total                                        5.00
- 32 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
Project Schedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       5                             16
First Bank mission (identification)              11/16/98                      11/16/98
Appraisal mission departure                      04/10/2000                    04/24/2000
Negotiations                                     04/15/2000                    05/05/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/01/2000
Prepared by:
Jorge E. Uquillas
Preparation assistance:
Karen Ravenelle
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jorge E. Uquillas, Task Manager    Senior Sociologist, LCSES
Sandra Cesilini, Co-Task Manager   Civil Society/Social Development, LCC7C
Maria Clara Mejia                  Social Scientist
William Partridge                  Principal Anthropologist
Susana Cirigliano                  Country Financial Management, LCC7C
David Varela                       Counsel, LEGLA
Andres Mac Gaul                    Country Procurement, LCC7C
Soren Gigler                       Consultant, LCSES
Karen Ravenelle                    Project Assistant, LCSES
Kevin Healy                        Peer Reviewer
Robert Crown                       Project Design
Filemon Torres                     Natural Resource Management
Enzo de Laurentis                  Procurement, LCSES
Teresa Genta-Font                  Counsel, LEGLA
Jorge Nahuel                       Indigenous Consultant (Mapuche)
Manuel Galvarino Cafulqueo         Indigenous Consultant (Mapuche)
Luis Alberto Pastrana              Indigenous Consultant (Diaguita)
Juan Santiago Santos               Indigenous Consultant (Quilmes)
Egidios Ramos                      Indigenous Consultant (Kolla)
Ruben Vargas                       Indigenous Consultant (Kolla)
- 33 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Draft Project Implementation Plan. Submitted in March 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Problemas y Oportunidades para el Fortalecimiento y Desarrollo de Aspectos de Comunidades
Diaguitas de los Valles Calchaquies Tucumanos. Aspectos Ambientales y Sociales. Filemon Torres,
Beatriz Cachero. Enero 1999. (Spanish)
2.    Problemas y Oportunidades para el Fortalecimiento y Desarrollo de Aspectos de Comunidades
Kolla en Yungas/Pre-Puna de Finca Santiago en Salta. Aspectos Ambientales y Sociales. Filemon Torres,
Beatriz Cachero. Febrero 1999. (Spanish)
3.    Problemas y Oportunidades para el Fortalecimiento y Desarrollo de Aspectos de Comunidades
Mapuche en los Bosques Andino-Patagonicos. Aspectos Ambientales y Sociales. Filemon Torres, Beatriz
Cachero. Marzo 1999. (Spanish)
4.    Evaluaci6n Social. Maria Clara Mejia. Marzo 2000. (Spanish with an English Executive
Summary)
5.    Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement; Setting of Prior Review
Thresholds; Procurement Supervision Plan. Andres Mac Gaul. June 2000.
C. Other
1.    INAI: Concepto Legal: Posibilidad de establecer Areas Indigenas Protegidas en las Provincias
donde habitan las Comunidades: Salta, Tucumdn y Neuquen y la situaci6n de las Comunidades en
relaci6n a la propiedad de las Tierras. Viviana Canet / Luis Zapiola. Subdirecci6n Area de Personeria
Juridica y Tierras. Agosto de 1999.
2.    INAI: Proyecto de Desarrollo Sustentable de las Comunidades Indigenas. Mayo 2000. (Spanish)
2.    Technical Documents
1.    API/PSA, 1999. Asociaci6n para la Promoci6n Integral y Programa Social
Agropecuario: C. Redin y M. Ezcurra, Comunicacion personal.
2.    Bendini, M. Y P. Tsakoumagos, 1993. Campesinadoy Ganaderia
Transhumante en Neuquen. Universidad Nacional del Coma/ue - La Cohlnena
3.    Bianchi, A. R. Y C. Yaniez, 1992. Las precipitaciones en el noroeste Argentino. INTA.
4.    Brown, A. D. 1995. Las Selvas de Montana del Noroeste Argentino: problemas ambientales e
importancia de su conservaci6n. En Investigaci6n, Conservaci6n y Desarrollo en Selvas Subtropicales de
Montania, Ed. por Brown, A.D. y H.R. Grau, Laboratorio de Investigaciones Ecol6gicas de las Yungas
- 34 -



(LIEY), Facultad de Ciencias Naturales e Instituto Miguel Lillo. Universidad Nacional de Tucuman.
5.    Brown, A. D., y H. R. Grau, 1993. La Naturaleza y el Hombre en las Selvas de Montana.
Colecci6n Nuestros Sistemas. Proyecto GTZ - Desarrollo Agroforestal en Comunidades Rurales del
Noroeste Argentino.
6.    Burkart, R. et. al., 1994. El Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas de la Argentina:
diagn6stico de supatrimonio naturaly su desarrollo institucional. Administraci6n de Parques
Nacionales. Enero.
7.    CIP, 1998. Pulmari y su estrategia de desarrollo de cara al nuevo milenio. Espacio de
Publicidad en el Diario Rio Negro del 29/6/1998
8.    Chauky, F., 1999. Comunicaci6n personal (Dirigente CK-FS)
9.     COM-N, 1997. Pulmari - Territorio Indigena Protegido. Coordinaci6n de Organizaciones
Mapuche - Nequen. Mimeo.
10.   COPADE, 1985. Propuesta para el Desarrollo del Establecimiento Pulmari y su Area de
Influencia. Consejo Provincial de Planificaci6n y Acci6n para el Desarrollo. Documento Interno.
11.   CMN, 1996. Pulmari - Demanda de Reparaci6n TerritoriaL Confederaci6n Mapuche Neuquina.
Documento.
12.   Corcuera, J., La Selva Misteriosa Buenos Aires, 1997.
13.   DGT, 1997. Origen y Situaci6n Actual de la Corporaci6n Interestadual Pulmari. Direcci6n
General de Tierras de la Secretaria de Estado de Producci6n y Turismo. Documento del 5/2/97
14.   EEAOC, 1996. Desarrollo Agricola de los Valles Calchaquies Tucumanos,
Etapa I. Estaci6n Experimental Agropecuaria Obispo, Colombres. Septiembre.
15.     Frites, E., 1999. Comunicacion Personal (Abogado, CK-FS)
16.   Grau, A. y Gonzales Lelong, A., 1997. Desarrollo Agricola de los Valles Calchaquies
Tucumanos, Etapa 1. EEAOC, Septiembre.
17.   Grupo Bristol, 1992. Relevamiento Forestal y Biol6gico del Area de Pulmari. Septiembre.
18.   INAI, 1994-99. Relevamientos e Informes realizados por las Areas de Proyectos de Desarrollo y
Asuntos Juridicos del INAI en las Comunidades del.Area de Alumine. Instituto Nacional de Asuntos
Indigenas.
19.   INTA, Evaluacion de los Recursos Naturales Renovables del Area Pulmari y Recomendaciones
Orientativas para su Aprovechamiento Sustentable. Bariloche, Julio 1999.
20.   Isla, A. R., 1996. Identidady Estructura Social en los Valles Calchaquies, Tucumanos: el Caso
de Amaicha del Valle. Tesis de Disertaci6n para el Grado de Doctor. Facultad de Filosofia y Letras,
- 35 -



Universidad de Buenos Aires.
21.   Martinez Sarasola, C., 1992. Nuestros Paisanos Los Indios. EMECE.
22.   Mejia, Maria Clara, 2000. Argentina: Proyecto de Desarrollo Indigena y Proteccidn de la
Biodiversidad--Comunidades Mapuche, Diaguita/Calchaqui- Quilmes, Kolla.
23.   Moscatelli, G. et. al., 1990. Atlas de Suelos de la Repuzblica Argentina; escalas 1:500.000 y
1:1.000.000 - INTA.
24.   Perea, M. C., 1995. Mapa de Vegetaci6n del Valle del Santa Maria, sector Oriental (TucumAn,
Argentina). Lilloa, XXXVIII (2): 121-132.
25.   Proyecto ARG/G31/96. Estrategia Nacional de Biodiversidad. Taller Nacional: Documento
base para la discusi6n. Marzo 1998.
26.   Rabinovich, J., 1999. Environment and Economics from the Perspective of the South. In
Managing Human-Dominated Ecosystems, (Ed) by P.H. Raven and G. Chichilnisky. Island Press (sent for
publication)
27.   Radovich, J.C. y A. Balazote, 1992. La Problematica Indigena: estudios antropol6gicos sobre
pueblos indigenas de las Argentina CEAL - Buenos Aires
28.   Reboratti, C. 1998. El Alto Bermejo: Realidades y Conflictos. La Colmena.
29.   Redin. C., 1999. Comunicaci6n Personal (API, Tilcara)
30.   Soriano, A. y J.M. Paruelo, 1990. El Pastoreo Ovino: principios ecol6gicos para el manejo de
campos. Ciencia Hoy (2): 44-53
31.   Tiscornia, L., 1998. Propuesta para el Uso, Aprovechamiento y Manejo Integral de los Campos
de Pulmariy Comunidades Indigenas Aigo, Salazar, Puel, Catalan, Norquinco y Currumil. Informe
preliminar.
32.   Tiscornia, L., 1999. Comunicaci6n personal.
33.   Tres Puntos, 1999. Patagonia en blancoy negro. En la revista del 27/1/99.
34.   UNIR, 1994. Investigaci6n Demografica y Socioecon6mica en Comunidades del Valle
Calchaqui que Integran el Proyecto UNIR: Partes I y II. Proyecto UNIR, Universidad Nacional de
Tucuman. Septiembre.
35.   Universidad Nacional del Comahue, Facultad de Ciencias Agrarias. Informe Final. Propuesta
para el Uso, Aprovechamiento y Manejo Integral de los Campos de Pulmari y Comunidades Indigenas,
Aigo, Salazar, Currumil, Cataldn, Puel y Norquinco. Volumenes I & 2. Rio Negro, Agosto 1999.
*Including electronic files
- 36 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P043418       1997 Argentina                 AR-AIDSANDSTDCONTROL                              15.00      0.00       000        3.50      2.77       0.00
P058526       1999 Argentina                 AR-DRUG PREVENTION (LIL)                          4.75       0.00       0 00      4 70       2.21       0.00
P063388       2000 Argentina                 AR-HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE UNINSURED              4.90      0.00       0.00       4.90      1.40       0.00
P045687       1996 Argentina                 AR-HEALTH INSURANCE TA                            25.00      0.00       0.00       0.85      0.85       0.00
P034091       1996 Argentina                 AR-HIGHER ED. REFORM                             165.00      0.00       0 00      76.54     76 54       2.20
P006059       1997 Argentina                 AR-MATERNAL & CHILD HLTH & NUTRITION 2           100.00      0.00       0.00      59.08      0.08       0.00
P006030       1996 Argentina                 AR-PROV. HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT               101.40      0.00       0.00     47.98      45.68       0.00
P055482       2000 Argentina                 AR-PUB. HLTH. SURV. & DISEASE CONTROL             52.50      0.00       0.00     52.50       6.83       0.00
P005992       1995 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARY ED 1                                190.00      0.00      21.31     31.02      52.32      32 32
P006057       1996 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARY ED.2                                115.50      0.00       0.00      68.17     6011        0.00
P050714       1998 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARYEDUCATION3                           119.00      0.00       0.00      31.08     2942        000
P049269       1998 Argentina                 AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 3                           284.00      0.00       0.00      72.28     72.28       0.00
P006058       1999 Argentina                 AR-SOCIALPROTECTION4                              9075       0.00       0.00      75.51     10.54       0.00
P057449     . 1999 Argentina                 ARG YEAR 2000                                     30.30      0.00       0.00      26.61     21.61       0.00
P03958i4      1997 Argentina                 B.A.URB.TSP                                      200.00      0.00       0.00     141.49     69.83       0.00
P055935       1998 Argentna                  ELNINOEMERGENCY                                   42.00      0.00       0.00      32.88     32.88      1555
P006052       1997 Argentina                 FLOOD PROTECTION                                 200.00      0.00       0.00     165.33     98.67      35.00
P006040       1996 Argentina                 FORESTRYIDV                                       16.00      0.00       0.00       8.57      3.81       0 00
P006055       1996 Argentina                 MINING SCTR DEVT                                  30.00      0.00       0.00       1.82      0.52       0 00
P055477       1998 Argentina                 MININGTA                                          39.50      0.00       0.00      13.84      13.84      0.00
P050713       1998 Argentina                 MODEL COURT DEV.                                   5.00      0.00       0.00       4.15       345       0.00
P006060       1995 Argentina                 MUNIC DEVT 11                                    210.00      0.00       0.00      69.92     -51.40      0.00
P040808       1997 Argentina                 N.FORESTIPROTC                                    19.50      0.00       0.00      13.46      -1.20      0.00
P052590       1998 Argentina                 NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT                              450.00      000        0.00     271.66     165.92      0.00
P046821       1997 Argentina                 PENSION TA                                        20.00      0.00       0.00       8.81       7.97      0.00
P006050       1998 Argentina                 POLLUTION MGT.                                    18.00      0.00       0.00      17.58      10.05      0.98
P006010       1997 Argentina                 PROVAGDEVTI                                      125.00      0.00       0.00     116.21     30.89       6.27
P006018       1995 Argentina                 PROV DEVT 11                                     225.00      0.00       0.00      85.22      -1.12      0.00
P005980       1997 Argentina                 PROV ROADS                                       300.00      0.00       0.00     265.05     166.39      0.00
P037049       1996 Argentina                 PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                                 16.00      0.00       5.50       7.25      12.75      0.00
P006043       1999 Argentina                 RENEWENERGYR.MKTS                                 30.00      0.00       0.00      29.10       3.30      000
P005968       1987 Argentina                 SEGBAV                                           276.00       0.00      0.00      32.24      32.24      0.00
P006041       1998 Argentina                 SMALL FARMER DV.                                  75.00      0.00       000       42.21      22.19     1788
P055461       1999 Argentina                 SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS                               10.00       0.00      0.00       7.25       4.25      0.00
P062992       1999 Argentina                 SPEC REPURCHASE                                  505.05      0.00       0.00     500.00       0.00      0.00
P006046       1999 Argentina                 WATER SCTR RFRM                                   30.00       0.00      0.00      30.00       8.34      0.00
P062992       1999 Argentina                 SPECIAL SAL (SSAL)                              2525.30       0.00    250.00     500.00     750.00    500.00
Total:    6665.40        0.00      276.80     2940.70   1752.70   -785.10
- 37 -



ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998              AUTCL                          6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Aceitera Chabas               0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00
1994              Aceitera General               7.50    0.00    6.90    0.00    7.50    0.00    6.90    0.00
1960/95/97/99     Acindar                       50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96        Aguas                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977/84/86/88/94/96  Alpargatas                 10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50   10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50
1999               American Plast               10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Arg Equity Inv.               0.00    2.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.84    0.00    0.00
2000               Argentina SMMC                0.00   12.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/99            BGN                           0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00
1989/91/96         Banco Frances                 4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99           Banco Galicia                 50.00    0.00    0.00  245.00   50.00    0.00    0.00  245.00
1995/97            Banco Roberts                30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Bansud                         3.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.39    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Bco Hipotecario              25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50   25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50
1996              Brahma - ARG                  14.93    0.00    0.00   16.50   14.93    0.00    0.00   16.50
1988/93            Bunge y Born                  0.53    0.00    0.00    4.01    0.53    0.00    0.00    4.01
1996               CAPSA                         9.82    0.00    5.00   27.00    9.82    0.00    5.00   27.00
1999               CCI                           0.00   20.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    6.00    0.00
1995               CEPA                          6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20    6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20
2000               Cefas                        10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Correo Argentino             63.00    0.00   12.00    0.00   63.00    0.00   12.00    0.00
1994/95            EDENOR                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               F.V. S.A.                    11.25    0.00    4.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    4.00    0.00
1998               FAID                          0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00
2000               FAPLAC                       10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1992               FEPSA                         2.75    0.00    2.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    2.00    0.00
1997               FRIAR                        10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00
1996               Grunbaum                      6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33    6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33
1997               Guipeba                      13.93    0.00    5.00    0.00   13.93    0.00    5.00    0.00
1998               Hospital Privado              9.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
Huantraico                    0.00   17.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Kleppe/Caldero                6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97            MBA                           0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1996               Malteria Pampa                3.50    0.00    1.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    1.00    0.00
1992/93/96         Mastellone                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Milkaut                       7.50    0.00   10.00    3.00    7.50    0.00    10.00    3.00
0/97               Minetti                      30.00    0.00   14.00  100.00   30.00    0.00   14.00  100.00
1978/81/86/87/91/93/9 Molinos                    0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00
6/99               Nahuelsat                    17.50    5.00    0.00    0.00   17.50    5.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94            Nuevo Central                 3.13    3.00    0.00    3.75    3.13    3.00    0.00    3.75
1995               Oleaginosa Oeste              2.29    0.00    3.75    0.92    2.29    0.00    3.75    0.92
1993               PAE - Argentine               9.09    0.00    0.00   18.18    9.09    0.00    0.00   18.18
1992               Patagonia                     5.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    1.00    0.00
1992/95
1998
Total Portfolio:      652.48  117.64  189.25  888.81  632.38   67.72   170.25  888.81
- 38 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               ALEF                         25000.00      0.00      0.00 150000.00
2000              APSF                          20000.00      0.00   5000.00  30000.00
1999              American Plast                    0.00      0.00    350.00      0.00
2000              Argentina SMMC                100000.00     0.00      0.00 450000.00
1999              Biopork                        5200.00   2000.00      0.00   5000.00
2000               CAG Fund                          0.00     0.00  10000.00      0.00
1999              DI TELLA                       9000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Galicia BLINC                     0.00      0.00      0.00  75000.00
1998              U.Belgrano                     15000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Unisoy                         5000.00   2000.00      0.00   4000.00
Total Pending Commitment:    179200.00   4000.00  15350.00 714000.00
- 39 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARGENTINA: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Araentina   8 Carib.  income        Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-vear (millions)                        36.6       509        573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    7,600      3,840     4.900
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      277.9      1,955     2.811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                          1.3        1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                         21         2.5       2.1      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    18
Urban population (% of total population)                 90        75         76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73        70         70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 19        31         27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                2          8         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        65         75        78
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                      3         12        10          _      et
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-aae population)   111       113        109            Argentia
Male                                                  111         ..        ..        ---Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                111
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999      Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            69.3     76.6      298.1     282.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 25.9     15.5       19.9      19.1
Exports of aoods and services/GDP              6.5     13.1       10.4       9.8                      Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                    26.0     22.0       17.4      17.4
Gross national savinas/GDP                    25.2     13.6       15.1      14.8
Current account balance/GDP                   -0.8     -1.7       -4.8       -4.3                      'I
Interest payments/GDP                          1.4      2.0        2.4       2.8      Domestic                          ment
Total debt/GDP                                30.2     85.6       47.1      51.2      Savings                      I
Total debt servicelexports                    22.7     36.4       52.8      69.6
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..       50.5        ..
Present value of debt/exworts                   ..       ..    410.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -0.4      5.0      3.9       -3.1       3.8         -Argentina
GNP Per capita                       -2.4      4.1      2.4       -4.1       2.9                Upper-middle-income group
ExPorts of aoods and services         2.5      8.9     10.1       -1.1       4.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP %)
(% of GOP)                                                                            20
Aariculture                                    7.8      9.6        5.7       4.6
Industr"                                      44.0     42.3       28.7      28.3      10
Manufacturino                               32.7      30.9      19.1       18.2 
Services                                      48.2     48.0       65.6      67.1      1      94          96   97   98 IR
Private consumption                           63.0     73.5       70.7      69.7    -20
General povernment consumption                11.0      4.5       11.9      12.9               -GDI            W  GDP
Imports of qoods and services                  6.3      6.6       12.9      11.5
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    0.5      4.0       10.3      -0.5    30
Industry                                      -1.2      4.6        3.2      -5.1     20
Manufacturino                               -0.9       3.6        1.6      -6.9
Services                                       0.5      5.0        4.7      -1.4    1C
Private consumption                                     3.8       12.1      -4.2      oe                 Ie
General aovernment consumption                  ..       1.3      -1.1        1.2            9496   97
Gross domestic investment                     -4.6      9.3        6.6      -7.6    -1C        -Ex
Imports of aoods and services                 -5.4     19.6        8.4      -11.2                 Exports     - Imports
Gross national product                        -1.0      5.4        3.5       -3.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-proup averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete.
-40 -



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic pnlces
(% change)                                                                      15
Consumer prices                            159.5  3,066.3      0.9      -2.2   1i
Implicit GDP deflator                      147.4  3,057.6      -2.0     -2.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     9    9
Current revenue                             8.0    15.5       18.8      19.3    -5
Current budget balance                       3.7    -3.5       -0.3     -1.5           -GDP deflator   -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                    -1.4    -6.3        -1.4     -1.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            11979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   9,656    26,441   23,315    35000
Food                                        ..   1,016      3,056    2,428         . .
Meat                                        ..    716        836       653
Manufactures                                 ..   3,186    17,387   15,082    21.000
Total imports (cif)                                4,230    31,404   25,538      4.1)
Food                                         ..      .          .      466
Fuel and energy                              ..    389       852       674 
Capital goods                               ..   1,450    15,649   11,909        0
Export price index (1995=100)                ..       ..        92       8o
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..        92       85                U Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      ..       101       94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                  9,176   11,759    31,123   27,758     0
Imports of goods and services              8,773    6,254    38,568   32,557
Resource balance                            403    5,505    -7,445   -4,799     -
Net income                                 -973   -6,818    -7,335   -7,847
Net current transfers                        26        8       388      394
Current account balance                     -544   -1,305   -14,392  -12,252      t
Financing items (net)                         ..    107    10,954   11,051
Changes in net reserves                       ..   1,198      3,438    1,201    41
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         .  10,814    24,906   26,407
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)         2.79E-8  4.23E-2       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      20,942   65,618   140,489  144,657
IBRD                                      367    2,281     7,417    8,591                       A: 7,417
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                             c 5,442
G: 30,956            D0:1.705
Total debt service                         2,251    4,385    19,690   23,571    |        :      0,ss6           E:7,400
IBRD                                       59      417       725      998
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            -2       54        31        6
Official creditors                        233      660     2,072    1,538
Private creditors                        4,334    -732      9,527    2,882
Foreign direct investment                 206    1,028      6,150   11,120
Portfolio equity                            0        8        50   -2,093                           F: 87.569
World Bank program
Commitments                                96       35      3,815      132    |A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              39      316     2,029    1,573    | B-IDA    D - Other mulbilateral  F - Pnvate
Prncipal repayments                        24      221       350      445      c - IMF                    G - Short4enem
Netflows                                   15       96      1,678    1,128
Interest payments                          36      196       375      553
Net transfers                             -21    -101       1,304     575
Development Economics                                                                                             9/12100
-41 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Social Assessment
Introduction
In 1997 the World Bank approved an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant requested by the
Government of Argentina (GoA) to strengthen the participation of indigenous community organizations in
the identification, design and implementation of socioeconomic development processes compatible with
indigenous cultures. Through a series of local, regional and national capacity building workshops, which
engaged indigenous communities, local government institutions, non-governmental organizations and
national institutions such as the Secretariat of Social Development and Environment (SSDE) the National
Institute for Indigenous Affairs (INAI), the present proposed project was identified.
The development priorities that emerged from this exercise, proposed by the indigenous
communities and endorsed by the GoA, are focused upon the creation of Indigenous Pilot Areas (IPA).
The concept, which is an important innovation for Argentina, entails several key principles:
* improve the quality of life of indigenous communities by promoting traditional cultural knowledge and
practices of sustainable use of natural resources;
* foster socioeconomic development investments that resolve present constraints and lessen human
pressure on natural resources;
* empower local indigenous communities to participate in the co-management of the resources upon
which they depend for survival.
Due to the fact that the current legal framework for establishing Indigenous Pilot Areas requires
new developments, high level negotiations and reforms, in 1999, the World Bank decided to modify the
approach and formulate a more traditional indigenous development project aimed at both supporting local
development initiatives and biodiversity protection in three selected indigenous areas. However, the
establishment of TPA was kept as an strategic objective which first steps are to be achieved during
implementation of the current project. Indigenous leaders (especially Mapuches) expect that the
project will take the necessary stands to make possible the establishment and operation of IPA.
Both indigenous and non-indigenous organizations and institutions agree that a Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL) is the most appropriate instrument for Bank support of this new approach to
indigenous community development and biodiversity protection. This is because all of the parties feel the
need to learn from the experience of testing a promising but unfamiliar development strategy. The GoA has
requested this LIL to pilot the new approach in three regions of the country before attempting to scale it up
to the broader Argentine context.
The proposed project will support three pilot operations in regions where indigenous communities
have obtained collective title to their lands or are in the final stage of securing State recognition of their
ancestral tenure rights. The three indigenous territories are
* Mapuche territory of Pulmari in Neuquen Province;
* Daiguita-Calchaqui and Quilmes territory of Amaicha del Valle in Tucumain Province;
- 42 -



* Kolla territory of Finca Santiago in Salta Province.
1.    Methodology of the Social Assessment
The Social Assessment carried out during project preparation was the vehicle through which the
three indigenous communities participated directly in defining project objectives, designing components,
formulating implementation arrangements and structuring management procedures. Additionally, the
technical content of the Social Assessment, including historical information, socioeconomic analysis,
environmental analysis, and institutional analysis, are the product of this participatory approach. (The
extended Spanish version of the Social Assessment is listed in the project files.)
Eight indigenous consultants were responsible for assisting INAI professional staff and the Bank in
the major aspects of project preparation. The indigenous consultants convened community meetings to
discuss sustainable development options, collected data, recommended courses of action, participated in
decision making and served as liaisons between the indigenous communities and the INAI-Bank team. All
project documents, including Terms of Reference, Reports, Aide Memoires, and the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) in draft, were translated into Spanish (the common language spoken by the consultants)
and made available for discussion in the three pilot communities. In addition to the eight indigenous
consultants, the World Bank hired an international and two national consultants, specialists on social and
indigenous development and on agriculture and natural resources management. The information and
results presented in this document are the result of the interdisciplinary and inter-ethnic group.
While the project idea was originally presented to the GoA and the Bank by indigenous
organizations, the approval and active support of traditional leaders of the communities is a vital element.
Consultations were held with traditional authorities in each community, including the six Lonkos
(maximum authority) and the Werken (religious leaders) of the Mapuche settlements of Pulmari; the leaders
of the Confederation of Mapuche Organizations in Neuqudn; the Kolla Council of Finca Santiago
(maximum authority) representing the four Ayllus (clans/settlements) of Finca Santiago; the Executive
Community Council of Amaicha del Valle, maximum authority of the Diaguita/Calchaqui, and the Council
of the Indigenous Community of Quilmes. While these institutions have approved the PAD in draft, final
consultations regarding technical details and operational arrangements with indigenous leaders are still to
be sought during project appraisal.
2.    Beneficiary Communities: Historical Context and Situation Today
Mapuche Community of Pulmari
There are six communities settled in a territory of 112,900 hectares administered by the Pulmari
Interstate Corporation based in the Municipality of Alumine, Neuquen Province. Several centuries ago, the
region was home to the Pehuenches (pehuen: pine tree; che: people) whose staple was seasonal harvest of
pine nuts (Pinion Araucaria). The Mapuche (people of the plains) are related descendants of Araucanian
people of southern Chile, pushed in 15th and 16th centuries into southern Patagonia by the Spanish
invasion, together with Tehuelche people who occupied the plains previously. At the end of the 19th
century, the Mapuche, Tehuelche and Pehuenche occupying Pulmari were the object of the "Desert
Campaign" of the Argentine Army, resulting in military defeat of the indigenous groups and the annexation
of the territory into large estates of the wealthy families that paid for the military campaign. Today's
Mapuche communities are the remnants of the three peoples who assimilated themselves as rural landless
laborers employed on the great livestock estates that took over their lands. In 1948, hacienda Pulnari was
sold by its owner to the nation, which divided it between the Army and the Provincial government of
-43-



Nuequen with no recognition of the rights of the Mapuche settlements on the estate. Mapuche demands for
restitution of their land rights dates from that period.
The Pulmari Interstate Corporation formed by the Province and the federal government owns the
portion of Pulmari,  110,000 hectares, not ceded to the Army. Its stated purpose when created was to
promote the development of the region and its indigenous population. Usufruct right to 23,505 hectares
(23%) was granted to four Mapuche communities (creating conflict with the others) but usufruct right to
the remaining lands (those located at both sides of the river, with enough water for cattle ranching and
industrial agriculture) were given in concession to non-indigenous outsiders for grazing livestock (46%)
and for tourism facilities (31%). The latter two occupy the prime pasture lands of the region. The
Mapuche of Pulmari, having been pushed to use grazing lands with environmental and water restrictions:
they live in poverty and had to invest enormous amount of effort for their survival and the survival of their
animals. The Mapuches have fought as much as they can for restitution of their rights to the pine nuts,
pastures and waters of Pulmari (wajmapu, roughly, the biosphere) during several generations with little
success until now. Sorting out the ancestral land rights and territorial control of the Mapuche people
vs. those superimposed by.the Nation State and other outsiders is a major challenge.
Diaguita/Calchaqui and Quilmes Communities of Amaicha del Valle
The communities occupy the Valley of the Calchaquies, in the Department of Tafi in the
Province of TucumAn. The Diaguita, once widespread in northeastern Argentina, responded to Spanish
conquest by strong resistance lead by hereditary hierarchies while others assimilated with the conquerors to
form the mixed population dominating the region until European immigration overwhelmed them in the
l9th century. The Quilmes occupied the valley since at least the year 1,000. Ruins and ancestral remains
of the Amaicha and Quilmes populations are scattered throughout the valley, including the largest
pre-hispanic city in Argentina named Quilmes, and today's settlements are built on the archeological sites
of their ancestors. Ironically both communities are not the owners and not even the managers of the
pre-hispanic sites located in their ancestral territory.
A Royal Decree dated 1716 (discovered in the middle of the 20th century) grants the
Diaguita/Calchaqui of Amaicha ownership of the valley, land which they have successfully occupied and
defended from invasion and annexation over the years. In 1976 and 1986, the GoA recognized the
collective rights of the Amaicha community to 117,000 hectares on the eastern shore of the Santa Maria
River (Tucuman Province). The Quilmes were less successful, for while they too are covered by the Royal
Decree, their lands (about 60,000 hectares on the western bank of the Santa Maria River) are occupied by
a handful of non-indigenous colonists and large hacienda owners who claim to have titles. Sorting out the
ancestral land rights of the Quilmes people vs. those superimposed by outsiders is a major challenge
to be faced by the project.
Kolla Community of the Finca Santiago
The people of Finca Santiago, located at several altitudes in the Bermejo River Basin (Salta
Province), are known in Argentina as Kolla, meaning descendants of a mixture of Quechua-Aymara people
of the altiplano and remnants of lower-altitude groups that they assimilated during the conquest and
subsequent colonization. This identity stems from the 17th century, when the indigenous resistance in
northeast Argentina was defeated and there followed a period of uprooting, displacement, migration and
resettlement of indigenous groups, annexation of communal lands, transformation of farmers into landless
wage laborers and inter-ethnic mixing. This process continued during the next centuries.
-44 -



The Finca Santiago dates from 1930, when a sugar factory bought the land along the Bermejo
River and imposed "rent" on the Kolla for the use of their own land. This ensured the migration from the
highlands of a steady supply of indebted laborers for the cane harvest. At some point, the rents are no
longer needed, as the impoverished Kolla must migrate to sell their labor in order to survive. Four
communities comprise Finca Santiago: Calazuli in the altiplano, Volcan Higueras in the middle altitude
slopes, and Isla de Cafias and Rio Cortaderas in the lowlands. The lowland settlements date from three
decades ago, in response to migration closer to sources of wage labor combined with the expansion of cattle
raising on the slopes. Beginning in the 1 940s with marches on the capital, the Kolla pressed for recognition
of their ancestral land rights. In 1994, GoA expropriated Finca Santiago from its non-indigenous owners,
granting collective title to the Kolla Council of Finca Santiago in 1999. Establishing an integrated,
self-managed and culturally adequate pattern for sustainable use of natural resources in Finca
Santiago is a main challenge.
Demographic Aspects of the Indigenous Communities
Since the indigenous territories selected for the pilot project do not correspond to European
administrative units (municipalities and departments) and indigenous identity has never been reflected in
national census figures, official sources do not provide precise demographic data. The data given below
(see Figure 1) are approximate and stem from various sources.
Migration is a common phenomenon in all three areas, which is perceived as a threat to cultural
survival by the indigenous communities. In the Mapuche case, increasingly restricted access to grazing
lands and other resources, tenure insecurity, and growing disparity between life styles of their communities
and the society around them have stimulated out-migration of young people aged 14 to 24 years. For the
Diaguita-Calchaqui and Quilmes, the population pyramid reflects a preponderance of older people having
returned to retire at home, and emigration of young people 10-13 (girls) or after 18 year (boys). Similarly,
the Kolla community looses about 17% of its population to emigration between the ages of 14 and 50
years. These facts explain why indigenous families often have between 5 and 11 children, but household
size at any given point in time averages 4-5 persons. Changing the current migration pattern is with no
doubt one of the most difficult and important challenges of the current project and an revealing indicator of
success.
Figure I
Beneficiary Communities                                      _
Community             Population             Settlements           Location/Area
Mapuche               1,517                  Aigo                  Pulmari
Puel                  1 12,900 has
Currimil
Catalan
Norquinco
Salazar
Diaguita/Calchaqui    2,739                  Amaicha               Amaicha del Valle
Los Sazos             117,000 has
-45 -



Quilmes                1,582                 Collado del Valle
Fuente Quemado
Quilmes
El Bafiado
Anjuana
Talapazo
El Pichao
El Arbolar
Ancillos
El Paso
Chaniares
Las Canias
La Vaqueria
Kolla                 2,628                  Isla de Cafias         Finca Santiago
Rio Cortaderas         125,458 has
Volcan Higueras
Colazuli
3.     Social, Cultural and Economic Organization
See the Social Assessment Final Report for details on indigenious communities organizations. Figures 2, 3
and 6
Mapuche of Pulmari. The community of Mapuches depends upon grazing lands and the forests of
Pulmari. The former support the raising of goats, sheep, cattle and horses which constitutes a principle
economic activity and providing food security and social prestige (particularly cattle and horses). The
forest provides firewood, medicinal and food plants and the staple pine nuts from which flour is made for
bread. While livestock appear at first glance to be most important, it is clear that forest products are at the
core of the economy. Agriculture occupies a secondary activity and is mainly dedicated to provide family
food.
The Mapuche settlements have around 60,500 head of livestock. They practice a itinerant
production regime, moving animals between winter and summer pastures. While all depend on livestock to
some degree, the fact that 16% of households own no livestock reflects significant socioeconomic
stratification. Due to lack of access to pastures and consequent overstocking, livestock rearing is a
low-yield activity. Experts estimate that winter pastures are 7 times overstocked and livestock exceed
summer pasture carrying capacity by 70%. Herein lies the rationale for sub projects of fodder production
and cancellation of grazing concessions to non-residents of Pulmari.
The potential for forestry development in Pulmari has long been observed. Unfortunately, Mapuche
involvement in forestry development has been minimal, and most areas of greatest potential value have been
given in concession to large non-resident investors by the Pulmari Interstate Corporation. Only in Puel and
Currumil does one encounter incipient re-forestation programs stimulated by the provincial Forestry and
Parks Directorate. The other communities reject this program, because it is based on introduction of exotic
-46 -



species, and prefer improvement of production of native species. In any case, it is clear that a key to
sustainable natural resource management in expanding Mapuche access to and control over the native
mixed forests, and, most important, the endangered Pehuen tree.
Ecological tourism services and traditional crafts have a potential to contribute to socioeconomic
development and relieve pressure on natural resources. Production and sale of crafts represent a potential
benefit for women ( 190 households represent 66% of production) that with technical assistance can be
improved. This potential is related to tourism development, which the young see as perhaps the only
alternative to migration. All six settlements have tourism projects planned, but a real change in earning
patterns much depends on reversing the 80 tourism concessions granted by the Corporation to
non-residents.
A study by the University of Comahue found that 72% of the Mapuche live below the poverty line
(US$ 148 per capita/month) and 41% below the line labeled indigent (US$ 78 per capita/month).
Unemployment accordingly ranges between 10% and 24% of the economically active population of each
community. The communities are clearly stratified socially, with those owning less than 50 head of
livestock, those depending entirely on farm income and those with no off-farm income. In contrast, the
better-off families have more than 50 head of livestock and/or a diversified household production, including
off-farm income from tourism services or employment, processing of Pehuen pine seeds, and production
and sales of crafts.
The Mapuche cultural cosmology centers on the concept of Wajmapu-ixofimogen. Wajmapu
refers to a multidimensional environment composed of what in occidental cultures are called space, soil and
subsoil, wherein the Mapuche trace their origin and existence in the cosmos. The second concept,
ixifijmogen, refers to the integral concept of biodiversity in which nature does not belong to humans, but
humans belong to nature. Sustainable development for the Mapuche means achieving harnony among the
"natural," "social" and "cultural" which are seen as mutually interdependent, as expressed in the bi-annual
Naguillatun ceremony.
While land tenure is collective, land use is organized along family lines. The Lonko or maximum
civil authority in each settlement is distribution of usufruct rights to the families, was previous hereditary
but is today elected for a two-year term. Each settlement also has an elected Executive Council through
which relations with institutions of local government are managed. In contrast, the Werkenes are the
maximum spiritual authority, who are today concentrated on recuperating and revaluing Mapuche culture.
While solidarity at the settlement level is tangible, there are continuing conflicts between settlements due to
successive decisions of the Corporation, Provincial authorities and GoA which deprive some of access to
resources and reward others. For this reason, second-tier indigenous organizations are important to
consensus building, conflict resolution and building social capital. These include the Mapuche
Confederation of Neuquen representing 42 Mapuche settlements in the rural areas of the Province and the
Mapuche Coordinating Organization which is an executive function of the Confederation.
Diaguita/Calchaquies/Quilmes, Amaicha del Valle. The social, cultural and economic
organization of Amaicha del Valle is founded upon collective land ownership by the community, within
which are distinguished two types of hereditary usufruct rights: property of a family and the natural
resources in its vicinity and communal property to which all families have access/use rights such as pasture
and water. However, with the passage of time and the impacts of migration and penetration of the
dominant society, there have emerged two patterns of living in the valley. First, about 20% of the people of
Amaicha del Valle live exclusively off of the land, the majority located in small settlement at some distance
from more populous centers. Here one finds the traditional gardens and agroforestry production system
-47 -



and the ancient practice of the "minga" or collective labor in planting and harvest typical of the Andean
civilizations. The majority, however, operate a mixed economic production system, depending upon farm
income to supplement off-farm employment or income and to permit traditional gift exchanges with
neighbors and family. The latter generally means less efficient use of natural resources and increasingly
reliance on employment in commerce and delivery of public services.
Studies indicate arable soils (provided that there is irrigation) in Amaicha del Valle of about
15,000 hectares, of which a bout 600 presently have permanent irrigation and 200 have seasonal irrigation.
However, only about 1,000 are under cultivation, characterized by poor irrigation delivery and management
practices due to the imposition of inappropriate regulations by the Provincial government resulting in poor
yields. Studies also indicate there is great potential for intensified productivity due to the presence of
abundant groundwater. However, under present conditions, any development strategy based on field crops
alone holds limited potential. Livestock on the other hand are almost universally present in Amaicha and
Quilmes households, with a range of 100 to 200 head per household of goats (and a few sheep and cows).
Animals serve as both food source (milk, cheese, meat) and "walking banks" wherein savings are invested.
In sum, irrigated cropping and livestock are the twin pillars of the rural economy. For these reasons,
improvement of irrigation (impermeable channels to cut loss and drip delivery) combined with
reforms and improvements in the organization and administration of water rights to achieve equity
are viewed by the indigenous community as essential. Similarly, rationalization of livestock rearing
through fodder production on irrigated land is essential.
The socioeconomic stratification of the community reflects the low productivity of those families
who depend on agriculture who rank lowest. Those who combine agriculture and off-farm employment
constitute a middle segment. Families who have one member working in high positions in pubic
administration, families that receive remittances from members working in cities outside the valley, and
families of merchants enjoy the highest ranking. Some 15% of the population have completed schooling
through 4th grade, and 37% through 7th grade. A minority have obtained secondary school diplomas and
fewer still have graduated from university.
The cosmology of the people of Amaicha del Valle center on the divinity of the Pachamama or
mother earth, a belief system shared with groups throughout the Andes. Catholicism dates from the time of
colonization, but the ritual cycle is that of the agricultural cycle of ancient times culminating in the August
festival of Pachamama represented by the "election" of the oldest female of the community in celebration of
the mother earth. Civil authority is embodied in the Cacique, who traditionally was selected along
hereditary lines for life but today is elected as President for life. Nevertheless, a President can be removed
by decision of the community. Each community President is backed by a Community Directorate or
Commission formed by elected delegates of the different settlements.
Kolla of Finca Santiago. The community utilizes three ecological zones that comprise the
territory: the high-altitude soils for pasture combined with marginal agriculture, the middle-altitude slopes
for pasture, and the low-altitude zone for agriculture, grazing and forest products gathering. Settlements
are located in the three zones, with a corresponding tendency to specialization required by the
micro-environment of the zone, and are linked together in the ancient Andean "vertical economy."
Production is distributed over several ecological zones and products from one zone are exchanged for
products from the other, following long-standing family, fictive kinship and patron-client relationships that
link settlements.
The Kolla community is almost auto-sufficient, producing the bulk of what they consume.
Livestock production is predominant, including sheep, goats, llamas, burros, mules and horses in the middle
-48 -



and upper zones, from which meat and wool are derived for consumption, trade and sale. Some irrigated
agriculture is practiced in the high-altitude zone, although its revenues are affected by wind erosion and
loss of water and soil nutrients. The forests of the lower zone were devastated by logging companies
(commercial species high-grading) and the sugar industry (fuel) in the middle of the 20th century, and only
remnants of the original forests remain. Today the Kolla use the areas cleared by loggers for agriculture,
including field crops and citrus orchards, and cattle grazing. Firewood is gathered from the
non-commercial species cut and left to rot by the loggers. The Kolla have initiated a reforestation program,
protecting naturally regenerating valuable species as well as planting high-value species (expected to
mature in 15-20 years). The majority of families in the four settlements depend entirely on agriculture and
livestock rearing, but in the lower altitude area as much as 18% of the people derived some off-farm
income as well (e.g. migration for the sugar cane harvest).
Despite the rich cultural heritage, abundant natural resources and productive capacities of the
Kolla of Finca Santiago, one finds that 75% of the inhabitants are living in poverty (basic needs
unsatisfied, reflected in short life expectancy, high rates of infant mortality, substandard housing and lower
coverage of schooling and public health services). These for the most part cultivate small plots and
maintain small herds of goats and sheep. Other families which operate production systems at several
different altitudes and are able to supplement that with non-farm income are better off. Cattle raising is
concentrated in these families. Families with members who are merchants or public sector employees
(politicians, teachers, health workers) constitute the upper strata of the community, and they increasingly
invest their surplus in cattle ranching in the lower altitudes. Women are less involved in agriculture, but
play important roles in keeping domestic animals, livestock rearing, trade and commerce and
manufacturing in addition to child rearing.
The community is organized in four ayllus or territorially-based lineage, corresponding to the four
settlements of Isla de Cafias, Rio Cortaderas, Volcan Higueras, and Colanzuli. These kin-based groups are
incorporated into the Kolla Council of Finca Santiago through 12 delegates, three from each of the ayllus,
which at the settlement level function as a Local Council. Representatives serve for two years, but can be
re-elected depending upon their performance, their moral qualities and their "altruistic actions" in helping
others. The charter of the Council specifies its obligations to defend the territory and reaffirm traditional
cultural identity, the latter defined in large measure as promoting sustainable use of natural resources
through communal management. The Assembly of the Kolla of Finca Santiago is the maximum authority of
which the Council is the executive body. All household heads 16 years or older have voice and vote in the
Assembly, 50% of which are required to be present to constitute a quorum. The Kolla of Finca Santiago
are nominally catholic (there is a chapel in Isla de las Canas), but fundamentally believe in the cult of
Pachamama (earth mother) present throughout the Andes. Their concepts of sustainable development derive
from obligations to the ayllu and its descent from (kinship with) earth mother.
4.     Management Capacity of Indigenous Organizations
The indigenous organizations of the Mapuche, the Amaicha and Quilmes, and the Kolla, so far as
their structure, internal processes, management experience and recuperation of cultural values and identity,
are in a formative stage. They require additional capacity formation and technical assistance compatible
with their culture and stage of development. The proposed project involves populations governed by oral
traditions, and, therefore, cannot attempt to subject all activity to written agreements.
On the other hand, all of the indigenous organizations have participated in development projects
offered by Provincial Governments and NGOs They are accustomed to shared-management responsibilities
in small-scale projects that entail resources from US$ 30,000 to 40,000. Each has only rudimentary
- 49 -



familiarity with accounting, but require additional training. Each has been established legally as a civil
society organization (personeriajuridica), which specifies statutes under which they operate, needed to
manage bank accounts, loans and debts. But only the Amaicha del Valle organization has already
established a bank account. With regard to physical facilities, only the Kolla Council of Finca Santiago
has a local office staffed with personnel and equipment needed for participation in the project. For this
reason, the project should provide resources to strengthen the facilities of the Mapuche and the
Amaicha/Quilmes and for strengthening the managerial capacities of all groups involved. This is with
no doubt a condition for project success.
Apart from formal organization, which in large measure will be strengthened by the proposed
project, it is important to note that in each community one can identify important human resources. These
include professionals and technicians with profound knowledge of the natural resources of their region and
the traditional cultures of their people, some of them with experience in local university, other educational
institutions and local government services programs (e.g. agricultural extension). Historically, such skilled
individuals found little opportunity for personal growth and achievement within their communities, who, for
several generations, were prohibited from managing their own lands and natural resources. The proposed
project will draw upon these untapped human resources.
Finally, the strength and resilience of indigenous organizations and the oral culture which they
transmit should not be underestimated. What must be kept in mind is that they have survived generations of
efforts to extinguish them, ranging from theft of their natural resources base to the persecution of their
leaders. Far from being weak, the indigenous organizations involved in the proposed project have
succeeded remarkably in winning recognition of their people's human rights and their ancestral territories
against enormous odds. It is upon these demonstrable achievements, capabilities and skills that the
proposed project will build.
5.     Other Social Actors Involved
See the Social Assessment Final Report for detailed information on actors involved at the national,
provincial level as well as potential associates and project allies. Charts 9 to 12.
In addition to those directly involved in the project design and execution, there are other important
social actors who will be involved indirectly. These include local, provincial and national institutions of
governrment, non-governmental organizations and the private sector, with which the pilot indigenous
communities will establish collaborative agreements, obtain support and assistance and work with to
implement a diversity of a activities and actions entailed in the project.
National Level
Several entities have statutory responsibility with regard to the management of the resources to be
provided by the World Bank loan, counterpart resources provide by the GoA, quality review and control,
auditing, etc. The Ministry of Environment and Social Development is the GoA agency responsible for the
project, through its Secretary of Social Promotion which will have responsibility for ensuring coordination
among all GoA agencies involved. INAI is the project Executing Agency, under the Secretary of Social
Promotion, responsible for all activities required for project execution including indigenous policy, relations
with indigenous partner organizations, legalization of territorial issues, organizational aspects, etc. The
Directorate of the Cabinet, Ministry of Foreign Relations, is responsible for making resources of the loan
available in a timely manner to the project Executive Agency as well as for management of audits,
provision of counterpart resources and compliance with legal agreements with the Bank. The Agriculture
- 50 -



Secretariat, through its National Institute for Agricultural Technology, will support activities relating to use
of soils and agricultural technology. The Secretariat of Natural Resources, through its Forestry Directorate,
will provide support activities related to environmental protection, environmental clearances and
management of forest resources. The Ministry of Defense will manage issues surrounding management of
lands which are property of the State in Pulmari
Neuquen Province
Organizational and institutional support for project implementation will be provided by the
Neuquen Mapuche Confederation, the Coordinator of Mapuche Organizations of Neuquen, the Directorate
for Indigenous Affairs of the Province of Neuquen and the Planning and Action Council for the
Development of the Province, Government of Neuquen. The latter will have a special importance with
respect to the proposed creation of the Bi-national Park Los Pehuenes (an joint ecological reserve among
Argentina and Chile now under discussion) within which the Pulmari pilot zone may or may not be
included.    Scientific and technical support in Neuquen can be provided by the University of
Comahue, the Social Agriculture Program of GoA, the National Institute of Agricultural Technology of
GoA, the Forest Corporation of the Province of Neuquen and the Provincial Wildlife and Parks Secretariat
and Forestry Directorate. In addition, NGOs such as the Civil Association Pro-Patagonia and the Civil
Association for Lands of Pehuen are important sources of capacity strengthening, technical assistance and
social capital building, and each is already involved in assisting the Mapuche.
Tucuman Province
Organizational, institutional and technical support will be provided by the Social Agriculture
Program of the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fishing and Food, the Programs Pro-Huerta,
Encalilla Experimental Farm and Rural Change of the National Institute of Agricultural Technology, the
Yungas Laboratory of Ecology Investigation, the National Technical University, the National University of
Tucuman, the University of Buenos Aires, and the Andean Center for Development Investigation. NGOs
such as Formaci6n, Waters of Aconquija, the Miguel Lillo Foundation and the Highlands Foundation are
active locally and are important sources of capacity strengthening, technical assistance and social capital
building.
Salta Province
In the high-altitude zone, two entities will be the source of organizational, institutional and
technical support to the project. The Social Agriculture Program of the Ministry of Agriculture and the
NGO Integrate Promotion Association will provide scientific and technical knowledge and skills with
specific reference to their experience in this zone. In the low-altitude zone, the Yungas Laboratory for
Ecological Investigation has the specialized knowledge and experience to assist the project. This laboratory
has the institutional support of the GoA Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock, Secretariat of Social
Development, and the National Council of Investigation together with international organizations such as
the German Agency for Technical Cooperation, World Wildlife Fund and the International Foundation for
Science.
6.    Strategies and Action Plans Agreed
See the Social Assessment Final Report for details on the strategy and action plans agreed upon per each of
the beneficiary communities. Figures 7 to 9 and Charts 13 to 15.
- 51 -



In each pilot community, INAI and Bank professionals discussed jointly with the indigenous
organizations concerned and the maximum authorities of the communities the actions and activities
proposed to achieve the objectives of indigenous development and protection of biodiversity. The following
overarching principles were agreed in each case to organize the execution strategy:
     Self-determination. Each community has the right and capacity to choose for themselves the
development programs and their means of implementation in keeping with their ancestral culture, within the
framework of the applicable Argentine legislation.
     Co-management. Decision making regarding the management of natural resources and economic
development investments will be negotiated and agreed among the indigenous communities and the other
social actors involved, in both public and private sectors.
     Construction of Consensus.   Both self-determination and co-management require explicit
attention to formulating conflict resolution and consensus building procedures and mechanisms, for which
the project will provide financial, technical and legal assistance.
Action Plan of Mapuche Community of PulmarL Three components constitute the plan for Pulmari:
     Sustainable Use of Natural Resources
     Strengthening Organizations and Traditional Culture, and
     Legal Assistance for Resolution of Conflicts.
The first entails a series of investments in training young people is planning, design and management of
sustainable development investments, a series of community assemblies to agree and prepare guidelines for
biodiversity protection (especially the Pehuen tree) and the production of pedagogic materials. Sustainable
production investments in specific settlements are also included, such as production of fodder for livestock,
new livestock management regimes, camping facilities of tourists, irrigated vegetable cultivation, and
potable water systems. The second component includes investments in recuperation and strengthening of
traditional handicrafts, recuperation of traditional medicinal plants uses and commercialization of
traditional textile production. The third component provides legal services to clarify issues surrounding
land tenure security and associated conflict-resolution among indigenous communities and leaders and
between Mapuches, the CIP, local governments and other private actors.
Action Plan of Diaguita/Calchaqui-Quilmes Community of Amaicha
The central concept around which the action plan is organized can be called "living
archeological sites." The community intends to recuperate traditional sustainable natural resources use
practices to generate income, preserve their culture, and establish an attractive tourism experience to attract
visitors. Traditional irrigation systems will be strengthened and improved (e.g. covering diversion channel
to mitigate evaporation, introducing drip technology) to permit increased productivity. The management of
water will revert to traditional Andean practices, replacing the present wasteful system of "turns," so that
visitors can appreciate traditional sustainable management combined with modem technology. Production
investments include irrigated fodder, fruit and nut production, recuperation and restoration of archeological
resources, and small livestock production. A second component supports
preservation/recovery/strengthening of traditional culture, and includes support for the traditional"
councils", establishment of a community center for the Quilmes, support of an RM radio installation for
Amaicha for capacity building programs, and investments in traditional handicrafts manufacturing. The
- 52 -



third component entails legal services for clarifying land tenure security issues and for securing
co-management of archeological sites with other social actors.
Action Plan of the Community of Finca Santiago
The key strategy of the Kolla is the consolidation of customary "vertical" exchange relationships between
the upper, middle and lower settlements to strengthen social solidarity, diversify production and increase
economic demand both internally and for trade beyond the community. Increased productivity is to be
based in broadly agreed guidelines and mechanisms for sustainable management of areas to be set aside for
natural pastures, natural forests, production forests and irrigated agriculture for traditional crops and the
so-called "green agriculture" for which there is a great demand. Investments in sustainable natural
resources use include manufacture of furniture, creation of a management plan delimiting livestock grazing
areas, technical assistance for agriculture imnprovement, improvement of road connections among
settlements, production of improved seed varieties, planting wind break trees, and capacity building in
agricultural technology. A second component targets capacity building for natural resources management
and economic development, investments in traditional manufacturing of ceramic, wood and textile products,
construction of community- centers and training for young people in traditional Kolla culture. The third
component provide legal services to resolve conflicts and secure co-management agreements with other
social actors.
- 53 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Legal Analysis on the Possibility of Establishing Indigenous Protected Areas
A Legal Analysis on the possibility of establishing indigenous protected areas in the provinces of
Salta, Tucuman and Neuquen and the land tenure situation of the communities selected by the project was
carried out by Government of Argentina during 1999. The main report in Spanish is in the project files.
Below is a summary of the main findings.
The objective of establishing indigenous protected areas in the Provinces of Salta, Tucuman and
Neuquen is legally viable because there is not any norm opposing it in the legal framework of the country
or the provinces, though none expressly states this possibility. This viability is based on the fact that public
policies regarding both protected areas and indigenous peoples have created favorable precedents for such
purpose. Therefore, the conditions for the establishment of indigenous protected areas could be created by
building technical and administrative capacities among the involved indigenous communities.
A.    A synthesis of the main issues follows:
I.    Argentina is a federal country where most indigenous lands are in the jurisdiction of the provinces,
with the exception of those belonging to the Corporacion Interestadual Pulmari (CIP), which are under
special norms.
2.    In the provinces where the project will be implemented there are no laws regulating protected areas.
Only in Tucuman there is a general environmnental law which includes some considerations about protected
areas.
3.     Since there is no specific legislation on the subject, a particular law is required in each Provincial
Legislature in order to create indigenous protected areas. This law can be generic, declaring community
lands as protected areas, or specific, establishing management categories.
4.     The requirements to establish this law are to be found in a specific management category: namely
Category VII, corresponding to Natural-Cultural Reserves. If necessary, other categories could also be
incorporated depending on the characteristics of the lands involved.
5.     Establishment of the protected areas has advantages both for indigenous communities and for
society in general: (a) for communities, it would allow its use as a territorial unit, thus guaranteeing future
generations the an integrated environment where resources could be conserved, used in a sustainable way;
(b) for society, it would ensure the management of natural resources in the lands under possession by
indigenous communities.
6.     Since the National Strategic Plan is not finished yet, consideration of the issue of indigenous
protected areas could be included in it (INAI is already working towards this end).
7.     The country already has precedents of protected areas with human settlements; in some of them
(i.e. Parque Nacional Lanin) the communities have land titles.
8.    Indigenous legislation in Argentina, which has been substantially modified since the constitutional
- 54 -



reform of 1994, establishes the recognition ofjuridical personality of the indigenous communities, the
communal property of the lands they occupy as well as others apt for their development, and the
participation of indigenous communities in the administration of natural resource and of other matters
affecting them.
9.    Indigenous affairs is a federal matter in the National Constitution. This allows the design of general
public policies regarding the topic of indigenous protected areas, notwithstanding procedures that may be
established at the provincial level.
10.   Indigenous protected areas could be created by (a) requesting a law to be enacted at the beginning
of the Indigenous Communities Development Project, or (b) requesting legal recognition as protected areas
when indigenous communities have improved their organizational and management capacity.
11.   If none of the above occurs, there are precedents of provincial jurisdiction of private domains in the
National System of Protected Areas. This would allow the creation of private protected areas in lands
which are property of the indigenous communities, under the private administration of such communities,
or under co-administrative arrangements where lands have not titled to indigenous communities but are
under provincial jurisdiction.
B.    A summary description of the legal status of the organizations and land tenure situation of the
indigenous communities involved in the project is presented below:
1.     The Kolla Indigenous Community of Finca Santiago has juridical personality registered in
the Secretary of Social Development and the Environment (SSDE) as indigenous community and
has the statutory capacity to make decisions regarding land administration. Its lands are held with
communal titles since September 1999.
2.     The Diaguita-Calchaqui of Amaicha del Valle and Quilmes. This case involves two
communities with different status: (a) The Diaguita-Calchaqui Community of Amaicha del Valle
has juridical personality as indigenous community, registered in SSDE and has the legal capacity
to decide on land administration matters. It holds communal title to the land, inscribed with the
domain restrictions established in the National Constitution. (b) The Quilmes Indigenous
Community has juridical personality as a civil association, registered in the Province of Tucuman,
and is in the process of transforming its legal status to be registered as indigenous community in
the SSDE. This communities are living in five nucleated settlements inside the limits established in
the Cedula Real and have ancestral possession over them. However, it does not have title to the
land and needs to follow a legal process called acquisitive prescription. INAI has been trying to
finance measurements of their land to do the mapping and to claim prescription based on their
ancestral rights.
3.     The Mapuche Community of Pulmari have all the juridical personalities, one is registered
in the register of Juridical Persons in the Province of Neuquen (Catalan, Puel, Aigo and
Niengiehual) and in the SSDE (Norkinko). All of these communities have the statutory capacity
to decide on land administration matters. They have the following land tenure differences: (a). In
the case lands outside the administration of CIP and over which they have title, they can decide
on their incorporation (to the protected area status). (b) Lands which are administered by the CIP
are subject to litigation, for this reason they cannot be incorporated into a protected area;
- 55 -



however, the Indigenous Community Development Project can contribute to the solution of this
conflict by generating new conditions for sustainable development based on an improved soil use
and diversification of productive activities.
- 5B -



