Report No. PID7376
Project Name                     Argentina-Indigenous Development and(@)
Biodiversity Protection Project
(Learning and Innovation Loan)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Environmental and Socially Sustainable
Development
Project ID                       ARPE57473
Borrower(s)                      Ministry of Economy, Public Works and Services
Implementing Agency              Secretary of Social Development (SDS):
National Institute of Indigenous Affairs
(INAI)
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 25, 1999
Project Appraisal                February 10, 2000
Board Date                       n/a
1.      Country and Sector Background
Argentina: The Republic of Argentina has made very significant
advances towards economic development and poverty alleviation. In recent
years it has officially recognized its cultural diversity and that indigenous
peoples are a key part of its social fabrics. The National Institute of
Indigenous Affairs allocated resources for activities such as capacity
building, in part with a grant from the World Bank's Institutional
Development Fund, and the adjudication of lands to some indigenous
communities. However, indigenous peoples are still among Argentina's poorest
citizens, partly as a consequence of traditional patterns of social
exclusion. At the same time, indigenous peoples have important social and
cultural assets, and occupy territories of important environmental value to
the country.
To address the particular problems of indigenous peoples, the Government of
Argentina wants to design and implement a combined poverty reduction and
sustainable natural resources management operation involving the direct
participation of indigenous communities.
Sector Strategic Context: The project addresses the CAS objectives of
targeted poverty reduction via community-based development investments and
participatory protection and management of natural resources. It is
formulated as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) to pilot new measures for
achieving these objectives and to incorporate the lessons learned into a
replicable methodology. It is also complemented with grant funds from the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) to design and implement a component focused
on biodiversity conservation.
2.      Objective of the Project



The project's main objective is to improve the quality of life of indigenous
communities, strengthening their social organization and cultures as well as
assisting them to reduce poverty and to become partners with other
stakeholders in the co-management of environmentally sensitive areas in which
they live. It will develop "models" from experience in three pilot cases,
the Mapuche territory Pulmari (Neuquen Province), the Diaguita-Calchaqui
territory Amaicha del Valle/Quilmes (Tucuman Province) and the Kolla
territory Finca Santiago (Salta Province).
The project will be considered successful when: (1) the pilot indigenous
communities have consolidated their social organizations and cultures; (2)
they have improved their capability to manage natural resources in their
territories, regularly planning and setting their own development priorities,
and gaining access to regular support from existing state, NGO and private
sector programs; (3) they have developed sustainable development
alternatives, based on natural-resource management; and (4) they are
protecting their biological resources. It would also be considered a success
when authorities and other groups agree that economic, fiscal, social and
environmental issues are being efficiently managed and are prepared to extend
the model and apply it to other regions.
3.      Project Description
The Indigenous Development and Biodiversity Protection Project will be
carried out in three pilot areas where indigenous occupants have legal
collective title or are in the process of consolidating their traditional
tenure rights. Specifically, the project will finance: (a) a Social and
Cultural Strengthening Component, designed both to support traditional
community-based social organizations and capacity building, and to promote
economic activities closely related to their traditional knowledge and
culture such as handcrafts and culture related tourism; (b) a Sustainable Use
of Natural Resources Component, designed to improve incomes derived from the
sustainable use of forests, soils, water and other natural resources,
including support for priority land regularization, agriculture, soil
conservation, and water management activities; (c) a Biodiversity Protection
Component, designed specifically to establish and manage special protected
areas were different species of fauna and/or flora need to be conserved, with
particular attention to sites considered as biodiversity hotspots and/or
endangered species; and (d) an Institutional Component, designed to create
the conditions for an effective implementation of the project, including
administrative and financial matters and an proven system for monitoring and
evaluation.
4.      Financing
The Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) amount is US$ 5 million. It will be
complemented by a GEF grant of US$1 million. The borrower will provide as
counterpart of about US$ 1.5 million.
5.      Implementation
The borrower will implement the project through the Secretary of Social
Development (SDS) and its National Institute for Indigenous Affairs (INAI).
INAI will create mechanisms whereby the allocation of resources among
priorities and the contracting, supervision and evaluation of the provision
- 2-



of goods, services and works financed under the project below a threshold of
US$ 50,000 will be responsibility of local indigenous organizations. To
build capacity, a Technical Group, established under the project, will ensure
quality and adherence to Bank procurement and consultant services policies as
well as social and environmental policies. Above that threshold, INAI, with
support from the Technical Administrative and Financial Unit (UCAF) of SDS,
will review and approve all activities in accordance with those same
policies. Three local project units will be established and they will be
staffed with indigenous and non-indigenous technicians. Participatory
decision mechanisms will be set up for decisions that require consensus and
for the design of the co-management strategy.
6.      Sustainability
The key premise of the project approach is that land tenure security coupled
with development investments and natural resources management techniques that
are identified, designed and implemented by local community-based
organizations (assisted by technical experts) will ensure sustainability.
This is so because the project builds in a participatory fashion upon
existing social capital, current productive practices, local knowledge and
viable institutions, rather than attempting to force their introduction from
elsewhere. The sustainability of the methodology developed to accomplish
this will be key element of an end-of-project evaluation regarding its
potential for extension to other regions.
7.      Environmental Aspects
General diagnostic-level environmental analyses are being conducted as part
of project preparation, which will identify major environmental constraints
and opportunities in each of the three pilot areas. Further environmental
analysis will be conducted in each area, which will provide the basis for
elaboration of a natural resources management framework as well as the
establishment of environmental management plans for mitigation of impacts of
development investments identified. INAI will establish needed environmental
expertise in the Technical Group in each territory to assist and build
capacity.
8.      Social Impacts
Social assessment and participation processes are being implemented as part
of project preparation in order to identify the key stakeholders, including
relevant organizations within the indigenous communities, as well as to
identify priority social issues and possible social impacts. One of the most
innovative elements of the project approach is the direct participation of
community-based organizations in the identification, design and
implementation of social and cultural activities, sustainable development
investments and resources management decisions. As part of the project team,
six indigenous representatives (two per each pilot area) are actively
involved in project design. They are responsible for (a) gathering
information; (b) consultation with their respective communities and
traditional authorities: (c) assuring that project design respond to the
communities' expectations and, (d) developing a participatory social
assessment. The social assessment and participation process will continue
during project implementation, to provide guidance criteria for the selection
of subprojects and ensure their subsequent implementation, monitoring and
-3 -



evaluation.
9.      Contact Points for Further Information
The InfoShop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Jorge Uquillas and Sandra Cesilini
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel: (202) 473-9776
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 17, 1999.
- 4 -



