Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4580-AR
Loan Agreement
(Indigenous Community Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 26, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4580-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 2001, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read in 
its entirety as follows:
Page  2
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under 
the 
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AC" means the advisory council referred to in Section 3.04 (a) (i) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"AOP" means any of the Project annual operating plans referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"Civil Society Organization" means any civil society organization working 
in any Indigenous Pilot Area (as hereinafter defined) duly recognized by the 
Borrower’s national or provincial authorities;
(d)
"Community Subproject" means any specific investment under Part B of the 
Project to be carried out by any Implementing Agency in any Indigenous Pilot Area and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(e)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Implementing Agency" means: (i) any Indigenous Organization (as 
hereinafter defined); or any Civil Society Organization (as hereinafter defined);
(h)
"INAI" means Instituto Nacional de Asuntos Indígenas, the Borrower’ 
National Institute of Indigenous Affairs, or any successor agency of the Borrower 
acceptable to the Bank;
(i)
"Indigenous Organization" means any organization representative of the 
indigenous communities living in any Indigenous Pilot Area (as hereinafter defined) 
duly recognized by the Borrower’s national or provincial authorities;
(j)
"Indigenous Pilot Area" means any of the following Project pilot areas: 
(i) the Mapuche Pilot Area (Hacienda Pulmari, Neuquen Province); (ii) the Kolla Pilot 
Area (Finca Santiago, Salta Province); and (iii) the Diaguita/Calchaqui/Quilmes Pilot 
Area (Amaicha del Valle, Tucuman Province) or any other Project pilot area selected by 
the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
(k)
"JGM" means Jefatura del Gabinete de Ministros, the Borrower’s Chief of 
the Cabinet of Ministers or any successor department or agency of the Borrower 
acceptable to the Bank;
(l)
"LMU" means the local management units within each Indigenous Pilot Area 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(m)
"ME" means Ministerio de Economía, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy;
(n)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth in the letter from 
the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
(o)
"Operational Manual" means the Project’s operational manual referred to 
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(p)
"PMU" means the Project management unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
Page  3
to this Agreement; and
(s)
"TG" means any of the technical groups, within each Indigenous Pilot 
Area, referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to INAI.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million Dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
Page  4
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through INAI, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, ecological, conservation and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia, appropriate provisions 
governing: 
(a)
the functions and responsibilities of AC, PMU, LMUs and TGs in connection 
with the implementation of the Project; 
(b)
Project interaction with community-based organizations and other 
stakeholders in the Indigenous Pilot Areas; 
(c)
the policies and procedures regarding the preparation and implementation 
of Community Subprojects, including environmental screening mechanisms; 
(d)
financial management and procurement arrangements; and
(e)
monitoring, evaluation and reporting requirements.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain, at all times until completion of the Project:
(i)
an advisory council, comprising representatives of the relevant 
department and agencies of the Borrower (or any of its political 
subdivisions), responsible for facilitating coordination for the 
purposes of Project implementation; and
(ii)
a Project management unit, within INAI, said unit to be 
responsible for overall project management and monitoring, 
including the review and approval of Community Subprojects 
estimated to cost $50,000 or more.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that for each Indigenous Pilot Area, the 
respective Indigenous Organizations maintain, at all times until completion of the 
Project and in accordance with the Operational Manual:
(i)
local management units comprised of technically prepared members 
of the indigenous communities, such units to be responsible for 
the supervision of the implementation of the Project in each 
Indigenous Pilot Area, including the review and approval of 
Community Subprojects estimated to cost less than $50,000; and
Page  5
(ii)
technical groups responsible for assisting the LMUs in the 
implementation of the Project, including monitoring and reporting 
activities, and preparation, supervision and evaluation of 
Community Subprojects.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that PMU and LMUs hire and retain, at all times 
during the implementation of the Project, professionals with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank.
(d)
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the discharge of the functions and 
responsibilities of PMU, LMUs and TGs.
(e)
Pursuant to procedures and criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, 
the members of the LMUs and the TGs shall be selected by the PMU in consultation with 
representatives of the Indigenous Organizations active in each Indigenous Pilot Area.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Project planning and execution, the Borrower, 
through INAI, shall:
(a)
not later that January 31 of each year, furnish to the Bank, for the 
Bank’s review and approval, a proposed annual operating plan for the respective year 
of Project implementation, such plan to comprise: (i) baseline objectives and specific 
indicators of Project implementation and impact; and (ii) cost-sharing arrangements, 
and evaluation criteria of Community Subprojects; and
(b)
upon the Bank’s approval, the Borrower, through INAI, shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the AOP, as approved by the Bank.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Project monitoring and evaluation, the 
Borrower, through INAI, shall:
(a)
not later than: (i) eighteen months before the Closing Date; and (ii) six 
months before the Closing Date, or such later date as the Bank shall establish, 
contract external reviews of the performance of AC, PMU, LMUs and TGs in the execution 
of the Project, and the impact of the Community Subprojects for the benefit of the 
Indigenous Pilot Areas, together with an analysis of the economic, financial, 
institutional, and environmental aspects of Project implementation; such reviews to be 
carried out by independent consultants with experience and qualifications satisfactory 
to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
not later than one month after the submission of the external reviews 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above, furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
approval, the results of each such review;
(c)
not later than two months after the submission of the external reviews 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above, discuss the results of such reviews with JGM, 
ME, AC, PMU, LMUs, TGs and the Implementing Agencies, taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon; and
(d)
not later than three months after the submission of the external reviews 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above, publish an operational and financial report of 
the implementation of the Project, on the basis of the conclusions and recommendations 
of such reviews.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, through PMU, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar semester during Project implementation, reports integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
respective calendar semester and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the subsequent calendar semester; and
Page  6
(c)
review with the Bank, JGM and ME the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Community Subprojects will be reviewed and approved in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Operational 
Manual.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Community 
Subproject in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the 
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
Page  7
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, or 
such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Operational Manual shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the operations or the financial condition of INAI or its ability to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been issued by INAI; and
(b)
the Borrower’s financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 
(a) of this Agreement has been adopted in a manner satisfactory to the Bank so as to 
enable the proper record of, and accounting for, Project expenditures by INAI and 
LMUs.
Section 6.02. The date January 25, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  8
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250, 5o piso
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121950AR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina,  as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Cavallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Levy
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
   to be Financed
Page  9
(1)
Goods
   200,000
70% 
(2)
Consultants' services,
   800,000
100%
including auditing
(3)
Community Subprojects
 2,430,000
80%
(4)
Training
   710,000
90%
(5)
Operating Costs
   250,000
100% until withdrawals
under this Category
reach an aggregate
amount equivalent to
$125,000; 60% until 
withdrawals under 
this Category 
reach an aggregate 
amount equivalent to 
$205,000; 40%
thereafter
(6)
Fee
    50,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
               560,000
TOTAL
 5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Costs" means the costs of 
office supplies, rental of office space, public utilities and local transportation 
required for the implementation of the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000 may 
be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve 
months before the date of this Agreement; and 
(b)
in respect of payments made in respect of Community Subprojects, unless: 
(i) 
an agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
has been entered into between INAI and the respective Implementing 
Agency for the purposes of preparing and implementing such 
Community Subprojects; and 
(ii) 
in the case of Community Subprojects estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more, the respective Community Subproject has been 
approved by the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) 
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each (other 
than the contracts referred to in Part D.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement); 
(b)
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each (other than the contracts referred to in Part D.2 (b) of Section II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement); and
(c)
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
Page  10
account in 
Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Page  11
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Page  12
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish the basis for community driven 
development and the protection and management of natural resources in Indigenous Pilot 
Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Social and Cultural Strengthening of Indigenous Communities
Social and cultural strengthening of indigenous communities through the carrying 
out of capacity-building activities for self-development and promotion of activities 
closely related to traditional knowledge and culture, including, inter alia:
(a)
handicrafts and ethno- or cultural tourism;
(b)
cultural exchanges and networking; and
(c)
provision of technical assistance to Indigenous Organizations, in order 
to: (i) complete the registration and regularization of property rights; (ii) prepare 
subsidiary legal instruments related to the establishment of the Indigenous Pilot 
Areas with a view to guaranteeing the management of natural resources by Indigenous 
Organizations; (iii) develop mechanisms to assure active involvement and participation 
of Indigenous Organizations within the new legal and regulatory framework; and (iv) 
preparation of custom-tailored solutions to possible legal conflicts.
Part B:
Sustainable Use of Natural Resources
1.
Formulation by Indigenous Organizations of natural resources management plans 
for Indigenous Pilot Areas, through the preparation of: (a) environmental and 
socio-cultural analysis, resources assessments, applied research, extension services, 
and soil, water, and forest management planning; and (b) specific environmental 
mitigation mechanisms.
2.
Preparation and Implementation of Community Subprojects in Indigenous Pilot 
Areas, including, inter alia, investments in: (a) soil and pasture improvement; (b) 
community forestry and agro-forestry; (c) watershed management and micro-irrigation; 
(d) spot improvement of rural roads; (e) marketing and post-harvest community 
infrastructure; (f) technical assistance for agriculture diversification; (g) 
livestock management; (h) management of archeological sites; (i) artisan production; 
and (j) eco- and ethno-tourism.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to Indigenous Organizations in the Indigenous 
Pilot Areas on participatory social assessment processes for the purposes of 
identifying social issues, conflict management mechanisms and equitable solutions.
Part C: 
Project Management
1.
Establishment and operation of PMU, LMUs, and TG, including auditing and 
financial management systems.
2.
Carrying out of participation and dissemination activities to incorporate the 
Implementing Agencies in the design and implementation of Project-financed activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Page  13
Date Payment Due
Expressed in Dollars*
On each December 15 and June 15
beginning December 15, 2005
through June 15, 2015
250,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $280,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international or national shopping procedures, acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Community Subprojects shall be procured in 
accordance with competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank as described in the 
Operational Manual.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  14
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: 
(a)
each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 of this Section; and
(b)
the first three contracts for goods to be awarded under Part B.2 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract or less may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms for specialized advisory services to Indigenous 
Organizations estimated to cost more than $50,000 but less than US$100,000 equivalent 
per contract or less may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $420,000, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
Page  15
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first three contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 but more than 
$50,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
