ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           AWorIdFroe ol Poverty
I lnfoShop                                                               24482
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/06/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: PAKISTAN                               Project ID: P074856
Pr-oject: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project           Task Team Leader: Benjamin Loevinsohn
Authorized to Appraise Date: June 29, 2002      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: November 26, 2002                IDA Amount ($m): 36.00
Managing Unit: SASHD                            Sector: Health (100%)
LU nding Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
W'ith a systematic and immediate response, Pakistan has an opportunity to prevent a widespread
HUV/AIDS epidemic. Hence, the objective of the proposed project is to prevent HIV from becoming
established in vulnerable populations ancl preventing its spread to the general adult population, while
avoiding further stigmatization of the vulnerable populations. The vulnerable populations include sex
workers, injecting drug users (IDUs), men who have sex with men (MSM), prisoners, and migrant
workers particularly long-distance truck drivers.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The National Strategic Framework for the control of HIV/AIDS, adopted by the Government and its
development partners in 2000, provides the basis for a detailed design. Building on the framework, the
project would comprise 4 components:
1.     Expansion of Interventions Among Vulnerable Populations
a.     Service Delivery Contracts with NGOs: This component would support the rapid expansion of
HIV prevention services to vulnerable populations at the greatest risk of HlIV, including: (i) sex workers;
(ii) IDUs; (iii) MSM; (iv) migrant workers, particularly truck drivers; and (v) prisoners. Preventing the
spread of HIV among these populations, particularly those living in large cities, will be critical ancl will
be the project's highest priority.
The Government would contract with NGOs to measurably change behaviors through the provision of
services in geographically defined areas to a particular vulnerable population. The service package would
include: (i) behavior change communication aimed at improving the vulnerable population's knowledge,
attitudes, and behaviors related to HIV; (ii) promotion of effective condom use; (iii) voluntary counseling
and HIV testing; (iv) proper management of STIs; (v) needle exchange and promotion of safe injection



2
ISDS
practices (among IDUs); and (vi) empowering activities that allow members of the vulnerable
populations to assert greater control of their lives.
Tlhe Government would select NGOs through an open and competitive process. The contracts would have
specific measurable goals that the NGOs would be responsible for achieving in their geographical
area.Monitoring of NGO performance would be carried out by the local and provincial governments on a
regular basis and would be supplemented by visits to project areas carried out by a third party. Annual
evaluations of performance on key indicators would also be carried out by the third party based on
interviews with members of the vulnerable population. The key indicators would be spelled out in the
contracts and would include reduction in syphilis prevalence, increase in reported condom use. and
increased use of STI treatment services.
b.     Small Grants: As part of the project a small grants system will be established to: (i) help
develop the capacity of NGOs and other institutions to carry out work on WV/AIDS; (ii) allow small
NGOs, and NGOs who have not previousl/ worked in HIV, to develop a track record so they can
eventually take on a greater role in HIV prevention; and (iii) create opportunities for testing and
rigorously evaluating innovative approaches and carrying out needed operational research. NGOs,
universities, and other organizations will submit project proposals using a standard format which will be
evaluated by peer reviewers and a grant committee. Draft guidelines for this program have already been
developed by the NACP.
2.    Improved HIV Prevention by the General Population
a.     Behavior change communicatiorn (BCC) aimed at the general adult population: The NACP
in coordination with provincial programs will undertake BCC with the following behavioral objectives:
(i) use of condoms with non-regular sexual partners; (ii) use of STI treatment services when they have
symptoms of STI and knowledge of the link between STIs and HIV; (iii) use of sterile syringes for all
injections; (iv) reduction in the number of injections received; (v) voluntary blood donation (particularly
atnong the age group 18-30); (vi) use of blood for transfusion only if it has been screened for HIV; and
(vii) displaying tolerant and caring behaviors towards people living with WHV/AIDS and members of
vulnerable populations.
b.     Advocacy: In order to raise awareness of decision makers and opinion leaders about HIV/AIDS,
the project will support activities aimed at having these groups: (i) appreciate the threat of HIV to
Pakistan; (ii) better understand the actions that can prevent a full-blown HIV epidemic; (iii) become
eifective sources of information for the rest of the community; (iv) take actions themselves to assist their
communities to avoid HIV; (v) provide continuous support for the AIDS control program; and (vi) help
avoid stigmatization or harassment of vulnerable populations. To accomplish these objectives, priority
will be given to the large cities, formnative research will be undertaken, specific messages will be
developed and tested for this group, and the messages will be employed in a number of innovative ways,
including personal visits by influential personalities.
c.     Targeted interventions for youtlh, the police, and formal sector workersIn addition to the
mass-media BCC that will be targeted at youth, IPC techniques will be used to reach a particularly high
risk group, i.e., in-school youth in grades 9 and 10 in the large cities. The IPC will be carried out by
NGOs and the provincial departments of education. A comparison will be made between NGOs and the
government in terms of cost-effectiveness. Contracts would be competitively bid for the delivery of BCC
to other specific high risk groups, particularly the police and migrant laborers.



3
ISDS
d.    Improved and expanded management of sexually transmitted infection (STI) caseihe
project will support the improvement and expansion of STI case management based on a protocol
developed by WHO and the Government that uses a "syndromic" approach. In the public sector
diagnosis, treatment, and contact tracilg will be expanded to all health facilities down to at least the
district hospital level.
3.     Prevention of HIV/STI Transmission Through Blood Transfusion
a.     Establishing and building the capacity of provincial blood transfusion authorities: Building
on the successful experience in the Punjab, the project would help establish effective provincial blood
transfusions services and BTAs and build the latter's capacity to regulate private and public sector blood
banks.
b.    Implementation   of a quality assurance sybihm project would support the
operationalization of a robust and practical quality assurance system that would likely include laboratory
proficiency testing, monitoring and supervision, improved record keeping, end use audits for test kits,
and re-testing of screened blood by reference laboratories.
c.     Screening of blood for HIV and other STIsThe project would help provide the necessary
materials and reagents for testing all blood in the public sector for HIV and hepatitis B. The introduction
of hepatitis C outside Punjab, would be dependent on the successful implementation of the quality
assurance system as judged by third party evaluation and a functioning provincial BTA.
d.     Waste management: In order to begin implementing the EMP, the Ministry of Health
would develop guidelines for proper handling of wastes in blood banks (particularly tertiary and
d'istrict hospitals) and needle exchange programs. Staff of health facilities with blood banks and
NGOs involved in needle exchange would be provided with training in these guidelines and the
materials for properly handling bio-hazardous wastes.
4..    Capacity Building and Program Management
a.     Strengthening of federal and provincial AIDS Control Programs:The project would support
thie strengthening of the national and provincial AIDS control programs through: (i) recruitment of a firm
tc, help build the capacity of the federal and provincial staff to manage contracts and carry out
procurement; (ii) recruitment of more full time staff to work in the federal and provincial AIDS control
programs; (iii) office support including furniture, equipment, vehicles, and access to the world wide web;
(iv) an annual conference that would bring together staff from government, NGOs, and research
institutions to discuss lessons learned and latest findings; (v) short term attachments of technical staff to
ot:her AIDS control programs in the region to learn first hand about the successes and difficulties
encountered.
b.     NGO capacity development: Technical assistance and training would be provided to NGC)s in
bid preparation and proposal writing for the small grants. The project management and procurement firm
w"ould provide the winning bidders with assistance in general management procedures and project
irnplementation techniques. Staff from the winning NGOs would also be given the opportunity to visit
oither NGOs in the region who have been successful in working with vulnerable populations, for example,
the work of Sonorgachi in Kolkota with sex workers. T1echnical support for the NGOs would be provided
by other partners, particularly UNAIDS and UNICEF.



4
ISDS
c.     Second generation HIV surveillance and evaluation-Systematic behavioral surveillance and
HIV sero-prevalence surveillance would be undertaken among the vulnerable populations on a regular
basis using consistent methodologies. The surveillance activities will be undertaken by a cell in the
NACP which would also have staff based in each province. Technical and financial support for
surveillance activities will be provided by CIDA. The project will support the recruitment of an
independent firm/organization to carry out evaluations of the project's components, including: (i)
interviews with members of the vulnerable populations in the areas covered by service delivery contracts;
(ii) quality of care provided in public STI clinics; (iii) implementation of the quality assurance systerns in
blood banks; and (iv) household surveys to examine the effectiveness of the mass media campaigns.
d.     Care for people living with AIDS:The project will support the care of people living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) through the establishment or strengthening of five units for HIV/AIDS
management which would provide the following services: (i) counseling for patients and their families;
(i i) treatment of opportunistic infections; (iii) palliative care; (iv) supportive care for the patient and their
families; (v) linkages with other programs and services such as the Tuberculosis Control Program; and
(vi) prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV in cases of HIV positive mothers who are referred.
Sujch units would comprise staff with various skills and backgrounds who will receive training under the
project. This sub-component would not involve any construction or acquisition of land.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project will primarily focus on the large cities, including Karachi, Lahore, and Peshawar.
No environmentally or culturally sensisitive areas will be affected by the project.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The project poses no additional environmental risk but provides an opportunity to mitigate
existing bio-hazards, such as needles, syringes, and blood bags.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes 0 No    C! TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No     0 TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               O Yes * No    CTBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                O Yes * No     O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes 0 No    C, TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes 0 No    C TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                               0 Yes * No     0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          0 Yes 0 No     C} TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes 0 No    C' TBD
*13y supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Tlheir Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necess,ary data.



5
ISDS
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
OP 4.01;Environemental Assessment: The proposed project will NOT add to the amount of bio-medical
wastes generated by the health care system in Pakistan, nor would it increase the hazard posed by such
waste as is currently being produced. However, it makes sense for the project to help prevent HIV
infection through contaminated waste and demonstrate how such materials can realistically be handled
and disposed of safely. Hence, the project will help mitigate existing hazards such as: (i) the disposable
equipment used in blood transfusions including blood bags and bottles, silastic tubing, and catheters and
needles; (ii) the needles and syringes used in needle exchange programs (although a needle exchange
program is a critically important component of bio-hazard containment because it deals with the highest
risk of spread of HIV associated with medical devices) and in HIV testing; and (iii) the relatively small
arnount of materials associated with testing blood for FIIV including used HIV test kits, small aliquots of
blood used for quality assurance, and blood found to be HIV positive.
OP 7.60 Projects in Disputed Areas: Since the project will be implemented in AJK and Northern Areas
this safeguard will be triggered. The standard disclaimer will be inserted into the project documents.
OP 4.20 Indigenous peoples: Since the prirnary focus of the project are the larger cities, indigenous
peoples will not be directly effected or benfitted by the project. The project, therefore does not trigger
OP 4.20 although the project will support communications activities in local languages directed to the
public at large.
1I.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not Applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
An environmental management plan (EMP) has been developed by the borrower which will help
mitigate the existing bio-hazards. The plan stipulates the means for implmenting activities aimed at
reducing the environmental affects of needles, syringes, and blood transfusion wastes. The plan
calls for the destruction of syringes and needles to prevent their re-use, treatment of the waste
thorugh auto-claving, and deep burial of the treated waste.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Tlte key stakeholders regarding environmental issues include: (i) laboratory staff, (ii) other health
workers in district and teritary hospitals, (iii) Govemment regulators, (iv) blood transfusion patients, (v)
NGOs who are involved in needle exchange programs, and (vi) the communities affected by improper
bio-medical waste disposal practices.
Tlhe draft EMP will be put on the NACP web-site and other web-sites that are deemed appropriate.
Copies will be provided to NGOs who have expressed interest in this or related issues.



6
ISDS
The development of the National Strategic Framework used a highly participatory approach, including
extensive consultations with sex workers, truckers, etc. Detailed and extensive consultations with the
vulnerable populations and NGOs have taken place during the design of the proposed project through
social assessment and mapping exercises. These have relied on key informant interviews, focus group
discussions, public meetings, and informal conversations. It is expected that consultations with the
vulnerable populations would continue periodically during project implementation as part of the
evaluation and monitoring process. Given that much of the monitroing and evaluation will be conducted
by a thrid party on an annual basis, this would be unbiased and regular feedback from beneficiaries.
As peer-educators, members of the vulnerable populations would also be directly involved in
implementing the project. Peer educators would also participate in evaluating NGO performance and
carrying out behavioral and sero-prevalence surveillance. The general adult population has been surveyed
ta obtain their reaction to mass media efforts. They would be involved during the formative research for
ftiture BCC activities and would also be surveyed periodically to obtain their feedback.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies a,re triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Enivironmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               6/8/2002      6/20/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           6/27/2002     7/1/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                            6/21/2002     6/28/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                     Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure



7
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Benjamin Loevinsohn                           July 1, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Qazi Azmat Isa/Person/World Bank
P.roject Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                          7/2/2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Anabela Abreu                                7/2/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH-- _ - -  FEEU2ACiC4  , SVrE MAP       _ _HOWCASE



