                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR00001651



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-37760 IDA-H0440 TF-58225 TF-93986)



                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR20.2 MILLION
                            (US$27.83 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      AND GRANT
                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR6.7 MILLION
                            (US$9.28 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE GOVERNMENT
                                    OF PAKISTAN

                                       FOR THE
                            HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT

                                  December 27, 2010




Human Development
South Asia Region
Pakistan Country Office
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2010)

                        Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupee
                         Pakistani Rupee 1.00 = US$0.01
                        US$ 1.00 = Pakistani Rupee 85.73

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 - June 30




                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS    Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
AJK     Azad Jammu and Kashmir
ANC     Antenatal care
ARV     Antiretroviral pharmaceuticals
BCC     Behavior change communication
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
DFID    UK Department for International Development
DDO     Drawing and Disbursing Officers
DP      Development partners
ELISA   Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
FM      Financial management
FSW     Female sex worker
GOP     Government of Pakistan
HASP    HIV/AIDS Surveillance Program
HIV     Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HMIS    Health management information system
HSW     Hijra sex worker
IBBS    Integrated biological and behavioral surveys
IDU     Injecting drug user
INT     Integrity Vice Presidency at the World Bank
MARP    Most at risk population
MSM     Men who have sex with men
MSW     Male sex worker
MTR     Mid-term review
NACP    National AIDS Control Program
NGO     Non-governmental organization
NPV     Net present value
NWFP    North Western Frontier Province (now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province)
NZ      Nai Zindagi
PACP    Provincial AIDS Control Program
PPP     Public private partnership
SDP     Service Delivery Package
QA      Quality assurance
STI   Sexually transmitted infection
VCT   Voluntary Counseling and Testing




                       Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                     Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud
                      Sector Manager: Julie McLaughlin
                 Project Team Leader: Shahnaz Kazi
                    ICR Team Leader: Ghulam Dastagir Sayed
                                                     Pakistan
                                             HIV/AIDS Prevention Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet


    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 40
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 41
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 43
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 44
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 45
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 62
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 63
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                             HIV/AIDS Prevention
Country:                Pakistan                    Project Name:
                                                                             Project
                                                                             IDA-37760,IDA-
Project ID:             P074856                     L/C/TF Number(s):        H0440,TF-58225,TF-
                                                                             93986
ICR Date:               12/29/2010                  ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                             PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 26.9M                   Disbursed Amount:        XDR 23.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 26.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 National AIDS Control Programme (NACP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 UK Department for International Development (DFID)
 UNAIDS
 Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process             Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/06/2001         Effectiveness:            12/23/2003       12/23/2003
Appraisal:            06/29/2002         Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/05/2003         Mid-term Review:          06/30/2006       05/27/2006
                                         Closing:                  12/31/2008       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Substantial
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                    Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                    Agency/Agencies:


                                                    i
Overall Bank               Moderately                Overall Borrower           Moderately
Performance:               Unsatisfactory            Performance:               Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                  100                 100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
HIV/AIDS                                                                 100                100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:            Rachid Benmessaoud                   John W. Wall
Sector Manager:              Julie McLaughlin                     Anabela Abreu
Project Team Leader:         Ghulam Dastagir Sayed                Benjamin P. Loevinsohn
ICR Team Leader:             Ghulam Dastagir Sayed
ICR Primary Author:          Ghulam Dastagir Sayed
                             Tayyeb Masud
                             Henri A. Aka
                             Naoko Ohno


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To prevent HIV from becoming established in vulnerable populations and spreading to
the general adult population, while avoiding stigmatization of the vulnerable populations.




                                                  ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target         Formally       Actual Value
                                           Values (from            Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                             approval              Target        Completion or
                                           documents)              Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : HIV prevalence among vulnerable populations.
                All intervention cities:
                                                                               IDUs (18%); FSW
                IDUs (20%); FSWs (0%);
Value                                                                          (0%); MSW/HSW
                and MSW/HSW (1% /
quantitative or                          Remain <5%                            (1% / 4%)
                3%).
Qualitative)                                                                   Source: IBBS
                                                                               Round 3
                Source: IBBS Round 1
Date achieved 09/30/2005                   12/23/2003                         12/31/2008
                As for IDU population, the IBBS revealed the original target was not relevant as
Comments
                actual prevalence significantly exceeded the target at baseline in all but 2 cities.
(incl. %
                Where baseline was below 5% at baseline, the epidemic exceeded this by end-
achievement)
                line.
Indicator 2 : STI (Syphilis) prevalence among vulnerable populations.
                IDUs (23.5%); FSWs
                (6.7%) MSWs (38.2%)
Value           Hijras (60.2%) Truckers
                                           <50% of baseline
quantitative or (6.9%)                                                        Not available
                                           estimate
Qualitative)
                Source: DFID STI Study
                (2004)
Date achieved 07/30/2004                   12/23/2003                         12/31/2009
Comments
                DFID study covered Lahore and Karachi. End line data were to come from CIDA
(incl. %
                financed surveillance system, which was not implemented.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : HIV prevalence among ANC attendees
Value
quantitative or Not available              <1%                                Not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2003                   12/23/2003                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Condom use during last sex act among vulnerable population (as measured by
Indicator 4 :
                behavioral surveillance).
                All intervention cities:                                      FSW: 51%;
                FSW (35%); MSW/HSW                                            MSW/HSW: 35% /
Value
                (22% / 17%)                                                   33%
quantitative or                            60% - 80%
Qualitative)
                Source: IBBS Round 1                                          Source: IBBS
                (2005)                                                        Round 2/3 (2007/8)


                                                iii
Date achieved 09/30/2005                    12/23/2003                        12/31/2008
                No intervention city achieved the target. Condom use for FSW and MSW/HSW
Comments
                increased substantially by end line. However, condom use rates in all cities
(incl. %
                surveyed (including non intervention cities) showed similar levels and
achievement)
                improvements as project areas.
                Use of clean needles during last week by IDUs as measured by behavioral
Indicator 5 :
                surveillance.
                All intervention cities:
                                                                              60%
Value           26%
quantitative or                             80%
                                                                              IBBS Round 3
Qualitative)    Source: IBBS Round 1
                                                                              (2008)
                (2005)
Date achieved 09/30/2005                    12/23/2003                        12/31/2008
Comments
                Significant increases in rates of sharing were observed, but most cities did not
(incl. %
                reach end line target.
achievement)
                Percentage of blood transfusions in public sector screened for HIV in labs
Indicator 6 :
                meeting QA standard.
                                                                              46%
                59%
Value
quantitative or                             100%                              Source: Third party
                Source: Third party
Qualitative)                                                                  assessment (Round
                assessment (Round 1)
                                                                              3)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/23/2003                        12/31/2008
Comments
                This is percentage of blood banks in public sector which had screened for HIV in
(incl. %
                labs where staff had adequate knowledge of HIV testing procedure.
achievement)
                Percentage of general population expressing #positive# attitude towards AIDS
Indicator 7 :
                patients.
Value
quantitative or Not available               85%                               Not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2003                    12/23/2003                        12/31/2009
Comments        The only reference to this indicator is in Pakistan DHS 2007 #Accepting attitudes
(incl. %        towards those living with HIV/AIDS# that is 47.7%, which cannot be used for
achievement) comparison purpose.
                Percentage using condoms (at last sex) among general population adults who
Indicator 8 :
                have had sex with a non-regular partner (past 12 months).
Value
quantitative or Not available               40%                               Not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2003                    12/23/2003                        12/31/2009
Comments
                Given the concentrated nature of the HIV epidemic in Pakistan, this indicator
(incl. %
                was not relevant. It should have been revisited by the Bank team.
achievement)




                                               iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                         Revised
                                               approval                            Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     N/A
Value
(quantitative     N/A                      N/A                                   N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/23/2003               12/23/2003                            12/23/2003
Comments
                  Intermediate outcome indicators were not systematically measured during the
(incl. %
                  project implementation.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     11/22/2003           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/07/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      1.15
  3     10/26/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      3.49
  4     12/30/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      3.98
  5     06/08/2005           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      7.07
  6     12/15/2005       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               9.32
  7     06/09/2006       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             12.39
  8     12/08/2006       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             16.55
  9     06/07/2007       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             20.35
 10     12/07/2007       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             25.12
 11     06/15/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             29.68
 12     12/18/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             33.08
                              Moderately                    Moderately
 13     06/26/2009                                                                            35.47
                            Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                    Moderately
 14     01/29/2010                                                                            35.70
                            Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                   v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
HIV prevalence and means of transmission: At the design stage of the project in 2002 and
2003, the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevalence in Pakistan was low. In September
2002, Pakistan ­ with a population of 154 million -- had reported only 1,741 HIV cases and 231
AIDS cases with the most common forms of transmission being heterosexual sex (41%)
contaminated blood or blood products (17%), homosexual or bisexual sex (4%), injecting drug
use (IDU) (3%), and mother to child transmission (1%). Despite this low reported prevalence rate,
it was believed that Pakistan needed to enhance its response because: (i) the number of actual
cases was envisaged to be much more than reported (based on limited surveillance data and
computer modeling, UNAIDS had estimated the number of HIV­infected persons to be between
70,000 and 80,000 -- about 0.1 percent of the adult population; and (ii) the presence of high risk
behaviors among the vulnerable population sub-groups such as high-volume, unprotected
commercial sex among both female and male sex workers, and sharing of needles among
injecting drug users (IDU) posed a significant threat of increasing prevalence.

Vulnerable populations: At appraisal, four population groups/behaviors were identified as at
high-risk of HIV infection. Although illegal, there were a total of about 100,000 female sex
workers (FSW) in Lahore, Multan, and Karachi, only 5% of whom were reached by any HIV
prevention services. According to a United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) report
in 2001, there were about 60,000 IDU (12% of the total drug users) in Pakistan. A study in Lahore
in 1999 found that 89% of IDU tested positive for Hepatitis C and 64% shared needles in the
previous week alone. In Lahore in 2002 there were approximately 38,000 men who have sex with
men (MSM) with multiple sexual partners and low condom use (17 percent) and a lot of them
reported symptoms suggestive of sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Lastly, while the
incarceration rate in Pakistan was not particularly high, prisoners appear to be involved in high
risk behaviors more than the average population both during and prior to their confinement.

Knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors in the general population: Despite improvements in the
general population's knowledge of HIV prevention, it was still inadequate and risky behaviors
remained prevalent. Attitudes towards people living with AIDS were mixed, discrimination
against people with HIV/AIDS evidently needed to be addressed.

Safety of blood transfusion services: About 1.2 million units of blood were transfused annually
in Pakistan at the time of appraisal, and a review by WHO and the Swiss Red Cross found that at
least 20% of blood used was inadequately tested for HIV and Hepatitis B. The actual figure was
probably higher because in many instances good records were not being kept, despite the
existence of national guidelines for blood transfusion services.

The Government's AIDS Control Program: The GOP established a National AIDS Control
Program (NACP) in the late 1980s. The program made slow progress due to several reasons
including the lack of recognition of the HIV threat, a vague strategy with lack of focus on high
risk groups, weak surveillance, and limited resources. Towards the mid-1990s, there was a
gradual improvement in the level of GOP commitment to the program which resulted in its
inclusion in the second Social Action Program Project (SAPP-II; 1998-2003) financed by the
Bank and other development partners (DP). This enhanced commitment was reflected in slowly
increasing expenditures, increase in staffing levels, and establishment of provincial AIDS control
programs (PACP), with most programs being one-man structures. However, the overall strategy
remained unchanged with the exception of an increased focus on health promotion and HIV
education aimed at the general public. In 2000, the GOP, through a broad consultative process,
developed a National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS that set out the broad strategies and
priorities for effective control to prevent the HIV epidemic. The comprehensive framework had
an increased focus on provision of services to the vulnerable populations. At the time of appraisal,
the program was spending about US$2.5 million per year.

The project was in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (Document number:
24114-PAK) (CAS) objectives and the health sector goals in the Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy of empowering people by creating opportunities for improving access to health services,
including HIV/AIDS and TB, as well as other pro-poor services such as education and safety nets.
With the Bank's extensive experience in HIV prevention programs globally, the project was
expected to bring regional and global expertise to assist Pakistan in its national response to
HIV/AIDS. The project envisaged containing the epidemic and building capacity by contracting
NGO to deliver services to vulnerable populations with high risk behaviors.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDO was to prevent HIV from becoming established in vulnerable populations and spreading
to the general adult population, while avoiding stigmatization of the vulnerable populations. The
principal indicators for judging achievement of development objectives were : (i) HIV prevalence
among vulnerable populations; (ii) STI prevalence among vulnerable populations; (iii) HIV
prevalence among women coming for antenatal care, iv) condom use during last sex act among
vulnerable; (v) use of clean needles during last week by IDU; (vi) proportion of blood
transfusions in public sector screened for HIV in laboratories meeting quality assurance (QA)
standards; (vii) proportion of the general population who admitted having sex with non-regular
partner using a condom; and (viii) percent of general population expressing positive attitude
towards AIDS patients.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
Although the project assumed that the largest group of beneficiaries of the project was the general
adult population, its main targeted beneficiaries were the vulnerable populations such as FSW,
IDU, MSM, and prisoners. It was envisaged that the services provided by NGOs to these
vulnerable groups could have benefits beyond simply preventing HIV, if the project was
successful, including; (i) the experience acquired by, and mechanism developed for, contracting
with NGOs could have broader application in the future for service delivery in the health and
other sectors; (ii) the project would strengthen the capacity of the NACP and the PACPs to
manage an effective and large communicable disease control program; and (iii) the attention paid


                                                 2
to monitoring and evaluation in the project could demonstrate to the Government the value of
doing this well and dedicating adequate resources for this public function.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Expansion of Interventions among Vulnerable Populations (total base cost
US$10.53 million)
Subcomponent 1.1 Service Delivery Contracts with NGOs to provide and expand HIV prevention
services to FSW, IDU, and MSM living in large cities. The service package included: (i) behavior
change communication; (ii) promotion of condom use; (iii) voluntary counseling and HIV testing;
(iv) proper STI management; (v) promotion of safe injection practices among IDU; and (vi)
empowering the vulnerable populations.

Subcomponent 1.2 Small Grants to: (i) help develop the capacity of NGOs and other institutions
to carry out work on HIV/AIDS; (ii) allow participation of small NGOs, and NGOs which have
not previously worked in HIV and (iii) create opportunities for testing and rigorously evaluating
innovative approaches and carrying out needed operational research.

Component 2: Improved HIV Prevention among the General Population (total base cost
US$11.81million) including: (i) Behavior change communication (BCC) aimed at the general
adult population to promote condom use, use of STI treatment services, use of sterile syringes,
reduction in the numbers of injections, voluntary blood donation, HIV-screened blood for
transfusion, and reducing discrimination and stigma towards people living with HIV/AIDS; (ii)
Advocacy to support activities aimed at having decision makers and opinion leaders better
understand HIV preventive methods, and help avoid stigmatization or harassment of vulnerable
populations; (iii) Targeted interventions for youth, the police, and formal sector workers, covering
a) HIV BCC messages for Pakistani external migrant workers in Karachi, Lahore and Rawalpindi,
b) training on STIs using the syndromic approach for health workers of the Employees Social
Institutions, c) targeting youth particularly high risk groups through mass-media HIV BCC, c)
advocacy sessions for new police recruits and the Pakistan Armed Forces Medical Crops to
address HIV prevention issues; and (iv) Improved and expanded management of STI cases, based
on a protocol developed by WHO and the Government that used a "syndromic" approach.

Component 3: Prevention of HIV/STI Transmission through Blood Transfusion (total base
cost US$9.21million) including; (i) Establishing and building the capacity of provincial blood
transfusion authorities, and building the latter's capacity to regulate private and public sector
blood banks; (ii) Implementation of a quality assurance system; (iii) Screening of blood for HIV
and other STIs through provision of the necessary materials and reagents for testing all blood in
the public sector for HIV and hepatitis B; (iv) Improving waste management, the Ministry of
Health would develop guidelines for proper handling of wastes in blood banks and needle
exchange programs. Staff of health facilities with blood banks and NGOs involved in needle
exchange would be provided with training in these guidelines and the materials for properly
handling bio-hazardous wastes.

Component 4: Capacity Building and Program Management (total base costsUS$10.55
million) including: (i) Strengthening of federal and provincial AIDS Control Programs covering:
(a) recruitment of a firm to help build the capacity of the federal and provincial staff to manage
contracts and procurement; (b) recruitment of more full time staff to work in the federal and

                                                 3
provincial AIDS control programs; (c) office support including furniture, equipment, vehicles,
and access to the world wide web; (e) an annual conference that would bring together staff from
government, NGOs, and research institutions to discuss lessons learned and latest findings; and (f)
short term attachments of technical staff to other AIDS control programs in the region to learn
first-hand about the successes and difficulties encountered; (ii) NGOs capacity development by
the management and procurement firm hired under the project on applicable procurement
procedures and project implementation techniques; (iii) Second generation HIV surveillance and
evaluation, systematic behavioral surveillance and surveillance of HIV prevalence among the
vulnerable populations on a regular basis using consistent methodologies. Technical and financial
support for surveillance activities was provided by the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA); and (iv) Care for people living with AIDS covering: (a) counseling for patients
and their families; (b) treatment of opportunistic infections; (c) palliative care; (d) supportive care
for the patient and their families; (e) linkages with other programs and services such as the TB
Control Program; and (f) prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV in cases of HIV
positive mothers.

1.6 Revised Components
Not applicable

1.7 Other significant changes

The Closing Date of the project was extended from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009,
with the intention to complete project activities and to provide sufficient time for the planned
follow up operation to be in place and avoid disruption of service provision to the vulnerable
populations.

The project benefitted from co-financing from DFID and CIDA through Trust Fund arrangements
as follows:

       In a co-financing agreement, the DFID Grant became effective in April 2009 to
       supplement the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project during the project extension period. The
       trust fund of US$4.12 million was to finance services to high risk groups and procurement
       of screening kits. When the Bank-financed project closed on December 31, 2009, it was
       decided to extend this Trust Fund for a period of six months through June 30, 2010 to
       ensure continuity of critical services, specifically (i) a successful harm reduction
       intervention for injecting drug users in Punjab; and (ii) procurement of anti retroviral
       pharmaceuticals (ARV) for treatment and care centers nationwide. Unfortunately, due to
       management issues in Punjab and the National Program, there was little progress in TF
       activities during the first extension period. A second extension was granted to the TF from
       June 2010 to March 31, 2011 for one category, the procurement of ARV to cover the gap
       during the interim period of the closing of the Global Fund Round 2 support for ARV and
       future Global Fund support under Round 9.

       Through parallel financing, the CIDA contributed US$1,041,906 with the objective of
       providing technical assistance to female sex workers; this became effective on August 21,
       2007. While the project design included support for building organizational capacity for
       NGOs, there was no provision for technical support. Given the lack of in-country

                                                  4
       expertise, the CIDA Grant provided support from an international organization to
       strengthen implementation of female sex worker interventions as well as support to the
       ACPs in managing supervising and monitoring these interventions. The procurement of
       the consultancy was delayed and the contract with the selected organization was not
       signed until March 30 2009. Subsequently the TF was extended until April 1, 2011.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was prepared over a period of 33 months and included analytical studies, which
looked into behaviors of vulnerable populations and lessons learned from NGO contracting. The
available information, however, did not include information on the size of MARP and the HIV
prevalence among MAPR, therefore efforts for collection of this critical information was built
into the project design which included mapping and behavioral assessment of targeted
populations in large cities along with the CIDA- supported integrated biological and behavioral
surveys (IBBS). As one of the strategic choices to be taken under the project, the possibility of
public private partnership (PPP) was extensively explored during preparation of the project.
Given the importance of NGOs involvement especially in service delivery to high risk groups, the
preparation team had a series of consultations with NGOs to assess their capacity to implement
HIV/AIDS prevention activities. The team also learned key factors for a successful PPP from the
Bank-financed study in 2002 on the analysis of the experience of government partnerships with
NGOs, including: the need to ensure well-defined deliverables by NGOs, systematic monitoring
and reporting of activities, strengthening fiduciary capacity, smooth transfer of funds to the NGOs,
and transparency and good governance in the NGO selection process. The results of these
consultations were reflected in the project design and implementation arrangements.

The project design went through a consultative process focusing on prioritized areas, looked at the
best possible approach to provide services, undertook consultation and analytical studies to
understand possible options and finally settled on final design. The design was strategic in the
context at that time and focused on most at risk populations (MARP). It was innovative in the use
of a systematic approach to NGOs delivering services. The project was a new experience in
Pakistan, both from the viewpoint of focusing on MARP, who are normally marginalized in
society, and in contracting with NGOs. Hence despite having an appropriate approach, it was
clear from the start that this project was ambitious (but also courageous on the part of GOP), and
would pose a formidable implementation challenge.

The design, however, had shortcomings such as the BCC campaign for the general population and
blood transfusion, which were not perhaps as appropriate to a concentrated epidemic but were
included due to limited information at that time and likely due to political compulsions. In
addition, it was overly complex with too many implementing agencies in a context of low
capacity. Experience in Pakistan had highlighted difficulties of implementing umbrella projects
covering multiple provinces. With the benefit of hindsight it would have been more strategic and
effective, although politically difficult, to focus on the two largest provinces of Punjab and Sindh
likely to have the highest concentration of MARPs at the first phase and consider expansion of the
coverage to other cities in a second phase, based on the experience of the first phase.

                                                 5
Inadequate risk analysis also posed implementation challenges, particularly risks related to NGO
contracting including payments delays (the NGO consultation during preparation had identified
this as the key constraint of working with government), insufficient monitoring and limitations of
technical capacity particularly lack of experience of working with highly stigmatized groups such
as sex workers. Another area of inadequate risk assessment was related to high staff turnover at
GOP. Mitigation measures for payment mechanisms and the high staff turnover did not receive
sufficient attention. Technical support for NGOs should have been central to the capacity building
component and was required at an early stage. Neglect of these risks contributed to the main
implementation bottlenecks. The PAD did not elaborate on these risks and did not provide any
explicit risk mitigation measures. In addition, the PAD played down the critical role of HMIS and
routine M&E, which later on undermined the ability of the project to monitor the outputs. Project
interventions in the government project document (PC-1) and the Bank document were the same,
with exception of M&E arrangements/ mechanisms; where there appears to be a contradiction.
Page 18 para 1 of PAD states: " many of the activities under the project will be difficult to monitor
so two mechanisms are proposed for M&E: a) Integrated biological and behavioral surveys
(IBBS) and b) Third party assessments; while page 31 of Original PC1 on M&E arrangements,
after a reference to the indicators, and annex on IBBS and Third party surveys states: "the
information will flow from the district level to the PACPs who in turn will send the consolidated
reports to the NACP on quarterly basis. A two way information flow will be established between
the NACP, PACP and other stakeholders". In other words, it appears that while the PC1
document included generating routine information from the district level up to the NACP, this
was not explicit in the PAD.

Participatory Process: the project was prepared in close consultation with different groups of
stakeholders, including FSW, MSM and Hijras 1 truckers and NGO service providers through
social assessment and mapping exercises along with group meetings and stakeholder workshops.
In addition, key development partners (DP), including UNICEF, UNAIDS, CIDA, DFID, and
USAID were directly involved in the project preparation. The common understanding of
HIV/AIDS problem and the commitment to assisting in a fight against HIV/AIDS among donor
partners formed the nucleus of project design and enabled mobilization of financial commitment
for HIV/AIDS in Pakistan from the development partners..

The overall Quality at Entry is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.


2.2 Implementation

The project was never formally restructured with regard to its objectives and indicators. The
project was generally rated as moderately satisfactory during its implementation but was
downgraded during its last year of implementation.

Implementation challenges have included slow procurement of services, recurrent problems in
contract management including delayed payments, capacity issues of the ACPs and NGOs and


1
    Biological males who are usually fully castrated


                                                       6
limitation of coverage of targeted interventions. Overall performance varied significantly across
implementing agencies. For example, the operation of preventive services for IDUs were well
executed in Punjab which benefited from strong ownership of the provincial government,
effective project management with considerable administrative powers of the program manager,
barely any staff turnover and a good partnership with an experienced NGO. Unfortunately, this
positive experience in Punjab was not replicated project-wide for the following reasons:

Delays in effectiveness and start-up: The project faced serious start-up problems in the first three
years. After a long preparation of 33 months (including the time around September 11, 2001
which exacerbated delays in preparation due to limited possibility of travel), prolonged
administrative procedures in government required another six months (ratification by ministry of
law) before the approved project became effective.

Poor contract management: Despite advance procurement actions during preparation, the
contracting of NGO took on average 19 months partly due to the required clearances at various
levels, excessive time taken in evaluation of proposals due to large unwieldy committees and lack
of capacity of staff to deal with service contracts. The procurement method was Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS). To address these issues, Expressions of Interest (EOIs) were advertised
widely, selection committees were broadened to include independent representatives, a
Procurement Management Firm was recruited and program staff trained. However, the measures
were only partially successful. The situation was compounded by frequent turnover of the
procurement officers of the Programs, leading to a loss of capacity that was built. In the case of
services for IDU, a more rapid Fixed Budget Selection (FBS) procurement method was used,
whereby the terms of reference and the prices for the expected package of services were
advertised and a single stage evaluation done by the procurement committee of the respective
AIDS program. The initiative was successful in Punjab where it resulted in contracting of services
within four months. In Sindh it took nine months, but was still faster than the average time taken
for similar NGO service procurements.

The delay was the worst in Baluchistan where only one contract (that of IDU) out of a planned six
contracts materialized throughout the life of the project. There was also an issue of the sequencing
of the contracts processing, as the contract of the management and procurement firm, which was
supposed to facilitate the procurement process, was only the fifth contract --which should have
been first-- as the program lacked capacity to properly manage the contracting process.

Delayed procurement of screening kits: Provision was made to procure screening kits through
WHO. After experiencing long delivery delays, the project Financing Agreement (FA) was
amended to allow the project to also procure screening kits through UNICEF. However, the
possibility of procuring screening kits through these two different channels did not help speed up
the procurement and delivery of screening kits. Delays in signing the agreement with UNICEF
were essentially due to the extended discussions between the Bank and UN Agencies at
headquarters' level to reach an agreement on the templates of Agreement to be used when
UNICEF supports governments in procuring health related goods under Bank financed projects.

Disbursement delays: the project suffered from long delays in payments to NGO in Sindh and
NWFP, and over the last year of the project at the Federal level, which adversely impacted on
quality and coverage of services. For example one NGO in NWFP was not paid for 18 months
after submission of invoices. The payment process involved a system of monitoring by a

                                                 7
committee, certification by the procurement management firm and final clearance by the Health
Ministry/Department. The main reason for delays was the excessive time consumed by the
clearance from the Health Ministry/Department. In Punjab, where financial powers were
delegated to the Program Manager, project execution has been relatively prompt; the manager
could approve payment transaction without each payment approval going up through the
hierarchical steps. Some of the delays can be attributed to a lot of time taken in organizing
monitoring visits and the delayed report submission. Another important cause for these delays
was lack of a clearly defined system/mechanism for monitoring of outputs and process level
indicators that could serve as an objective basis for assessing short-term performance of the NGO.
In the absence of a system to monitor overall outputs, the payment verification process was
primarily an audit of the progress report submitted by the NGOs and it involved some serious
breaches of individual privacy of the beneficiaries. As a result, conflicts arose between the
Government and NGOs over the financial resources allocated to the delivery of services. At time
of project closing, several NGOs had not received full payment from Government counterpart
funds to the project.

Lack of staff and the high turnover: Delays in staffing in the project implementing agencies
became problematic prior to project effectiveness. High managerial and staff turnover rendered
project implementation more problematic. For example, in Sindh the project experienced seven
secretaries of health and ten AIDS Control Program managers. Similarly four PACP managers
were transferred to other positions in NWFP in three years. The project also suffered from lack of
procurement and FM staff throughout its life, especially in Sindh and NWFP. Due to a new
management philosophy brought by each new manager, the direction of the project was not
always compatible with the project development objectives. Service delivery by NGO suffered
from the high project management turnover, since each new manager would further scrutinize
NGO's financial management and focus on input to service delivery rather than numbers and
quality of the outputs, not appreciating the performance based lump-sum contracts. Staff from the
procurement management firm responsible for building capacity was stretched due to competing
demands.

Quality and coverage of targeted interventions: Quality, particularly of sex worker interventions,
suffered due to limitations of technical capacity. Considerable experience had been built up in
working with drug users including IDU as part of demand reduction efforts by NGO since 1990s,
and from 2001 to early 2005, prior to the project; DFID had supported provision of harm
reduction services for IDU. However, there was little experience of HIV prevention with highly
stigmatized groups of male and female sex workers and transgender people and most contractor
NGOs were new to this work. The design of the project included support to NGOs in contract
management and organizational capacity through a management firm but largely neglected the
important area of technical capacity. Subsequently, short term assistance was arranged for male
sex worker interventions. Technical assistance to female sex worker interventions intended to be
implemented over a two-year period with support from CIDA, materialized towards the end of the
project; by this time, most of the interventions were in the process of closing down.

Project resources were also not adequate to expand coverage of targeted interventions to the
extent required to contain the epidemic. Punjab was able to increase allocation for this activity
due to the support of the provincial planning department, but in Sindh only a limited increase in



                                                8
resources was made possible through re-allocation within the PC-1 2 budget for high risk
interventions.

Mid-Term Review (MTR): The MTR, conducted in May 2006, recognized that considerably
greater effort was required both in terms of capacity building and additional resources to scale up
services for containing the spread of the HIV epidemic. For rapid expansion of coverage and
quality enhancement of HIV prevention services to high risk groups, the MTR recommended
provision of supplementary financing for the subsequent five years. The financing was
conditioned to prior actions to be taken by the GOP to ensure timely procurement of services, and
to improve the shortcomings of the modalities for recruitment of NGOs. It was agreed that service
contracts would be province-wide for each of the priority vulnerable groups including IDU, FSW,
and MSW and the contracts would be flexible to the requirements of the epidemic and be signed
by mid-November 2006. To facilitate quick processing of the contracts, the Bank agreed to allow
fixed price procurements and the Government was supposed to streamline the evaluation
committees and reduce the layers of bureaucratic approval.

Additional Financing and the extension of the project Closing Date: The provision of Additional
financing of three years was considered during implementation. Its preparation required the
revision of the PC-1s (costed implementation plans) of the National and Provincial Programs. The
process was complex, particularly for a multi-province umbrella project and required several
layers of approval at the provincial and federal levels. The revised plans were approved by the
Central Development Working Party at the federal level in November 2008 and final approval by
the Executive Council of the National Economic Committee (ECNEC) was granted in September
2009. Following the CDWP approval Punjab was the only province that was able to scale up
services to IDUs through a province-wide contract for services to IDUs signed in April 2009. As a
result of these delays, Additional Financing was not processed by the Bank. Instead, a follow-up
operation of 5 years was considered as more appropriate for future program support. In the
interim, to allow sufficient time for the follow-up operation and to ensure continuity of services, it
was decided to extend the Closing Date of the project for one year until December 31, 2009.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Selection of Key Performance Indicators

The M&E framework had a focus on vulnerable populations for many of the indicators,
particularly those at the outcome level. PAD and legal documents originally defined the eight
principal indicators for judging achievement of development objectives. The PAD also defined 15
intermediate output indicators for the project. In ISRs however, out of eight PDO indicators, the
team selected two (HIV and STIs prevalence rates) as PDO indicators, and three (clean needle
condom use, and blood transfusion) as intermediate outcome indicators, to monitor the progress.
Only data for four PDO indicators have been collected systematically, suggesting feasibility


2
 PC1 stands for Planning Commission 1 ­ it is a GOP document for project evaluation and approval; and includes
project description along with the budget needed for implementation.




                                                      9
issues in measuring the selected indicators. It also appears that there was limited collection of
credible monitoring data to measure progress of the defined output indicators throughout the
project implementation.

Difficulty in measuring the progress and achievements by PDO indicators may indicate that the
selection of PDO indicators was inappropriate. HIV prevalence data may not be the best indicator
to measure project progress, as prevalence depends on many external factors, including effective
prevention, survival time of HIV positive people and migration. In addition, more emphasis
should have been placed on indicators of actual program coverage of services for vulnerable
populations to assess the link between the program's contributions to changes in epidemiologic or
behavioral outcomes. The only measure of program coverage included in the original results
framework was the proportion of estimated vulnerable populations covered by NGO contracts.
This indicator is a useful measure of appropriate planning, but does not reflect the actual
proportion of vulnerable populations benefiting from the prevention interventions.

Output indicators for Component 2 (Knowledge and Prevention among the general population)
described a mix of preventive behaviors and non discriminatory attitudes toward people living
with HIV/AIDS. While these indicators were consistent with the proposed objectives of
Component 2, as discussed earlier, the BCC campaign for the general population itself was
focused on issues that should not have been program priorities for a country facing a concentrated
HIV epidemic.

For Component 3, output indicators related to blood safety focused only on public sector system
strengthening, even though weaknesses in the regulation of private blood transfusion centers
appeared to be a key gap in services and a primary area of work of the project, as documented in
the project aide-memoires.

Monitoring and Evaluation Data Systems

The primary mechanisms instituted by the project for collecting monitoring and evaluation data
were the integrated biological and behavioral surveys (IBBS) and third party assessments to
assess quality of various components of services. The IBBS surveys were conceived and housed
primarily as tools for HIV surveillance, i.e., under the auspices of the HIV AIDS Surveillance
Program (HASP). As such, the IBBS was a critical contribution by the project providing
invaluable size estimates of vulnerable population and epidemiologic data about vulnerable
populations in a large number of cities. The implementation of three rounds of IBBS during the
project period is an important achievement for the country and a model for second generation
surveillance in the region. However, the utility of the IBBS data as a primary source of
monitoring and evaluation was limited in part because of decisions made about the sampling
design and the lack of analysis to calculate project defined performance indicators. It is also
important to recognize the effective application of the IBBS data in the area of advocacy and
program planning. For example, high HIV prevalence measured in the IBBS of IDU was used to
justify additional resources for prevention interventions. Similarly, size estimates of the
vulnerable populations resulting from the mapping component of the IBBS directly fed into
budgets based on planned population coverage and the placement of specific intervention sites.

The third party assessment mechanism was a promising effort to measure service quality in a
standardized, objective manner. However, there appeared to be some lack of ownership and

                                               10
support on the part of provincial AIDS control programs to endorse the metrics and tools adopted
for the assessment. This resulted in findings which were not perceived to focus on the priority
areas of the service and disputed as an accurate assessment of the project achievements.

The reliance on IBBS survey data and annual third party assessments to measure program outputs
de-emphasized the value of using standardized interim output level indicators from routine
monitoring systems for tracking program progress. A sample of quarterly reports submitted from
NGO show that such data are collected; however, these data were not systematically collated in a
way that provided an overview at provincial or national level. There was a lack of clarity on who
had responsibility for collecting and analyzing these data. The government project document
identified the management firm being responsible for monitoring of the NGO outputs. However,
the management firm did not appear to have the technical expertise to identify a standardized set
of indicators that would focus on the key aspects of these types of interventions. The
responsibility for collating and analyzing the data to provide periodic assessments of program
performance did not appear to be included in any agency's terms of reference. Toward the project
completion in 2008, an effort to assess NGO program performance synthesizing behavioral data
from the IBBS and the limited commodity distribution data available from a sub-set of sites was
conducted by an external consultant.

The management firm did make efforts to lay out guidance for routine monitoring systems for the
vulnerable population interventions in 2007 in a manual. It provided sample formats for data
collection, but did not specify a core set of indicators with which to measure program
performance and the effort did not result in a standardized dataset available from all project sites
that could be used to describe overall program outputs. Some of the larger NGO contracted to
provide services for IDU (e.g. Nai Zendagi) had independently developed sophisticated systems
for tracking services to their beneficiaries; however, this local expertise was not leveraged to
extend good monitoring practices to other NGOs.

There was a general failure of the system to produce consistent project wide data on program
coverage. This also reflected a broader lack of program guidelines defining minimum quality
standards for prevention services for vulnerable populations. The detailed project description
included in the PAD provided clear, concrete standards for the prevention program; however,
these do not appear to have been adopted by implementation partners or reinforced by
NACP/PACP, the management firm (nor by Bank supervision teams).

In addition to the assessment of MARP interventions, an evaluation of the behavior change
communication strategy for the general population was conducted. The report from this
evaluation acknowledged the lack of baseline data because for this a planned demographic health
survey could have provided baseline levels of knowledge and attitudes. However, these data were
not collected and therefore were unavailable for the evaluation. The results of the surveys and
focus group discussions conducted at the end of the project period focused on exposure to the
media campaign and assessed levels of knowledge, but did not appear to correspond to the key
behavior change messages identified as PDO, i.e. those related to attitudes about HIV/AIDS and
MARP or condom use among adults who had non-regular sex partners. With respect to
knowledge of HIV prevention and modes of transmission, the report from the evaluation team of
Socio-Economic and Business Consultants (SEBCON) found that "in general, the results of the
quantitative and qualitative survey point to a significant increase in the knowledge about HIV and
AIDS." For example, the most commonly identified mode of transmission was unsafe sex (34%

                                                11
of the respondents). However, because there was no baseline, it is difficult to substantiate the
conclusion that the levels of knowledge measured reflect an increase from prior to the
implementation of the BCC campaign.

In conclusion, while distinguishing between outputs/process indicators and outcomes, the project
failed to develop an adequate system for tracking upstream indicators. However, at the same time,
there was a strong focus on monitoring outcomes and data on MARP behavioral, biological
outcomes and utilization of services was the basis for programmatic changes, particularly the
increased allocation for IDU services in Punjab and to a lesser extent in Sindh.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The environmental category for the project was B. The environmental management plan, and the
guidelines related to infection control and proper handling of waste in blood banks were
developed and published prior to project appraisal. A third party contractor (Hagler Bailly
Pakistan), carried out a baseline study which indicated that waste management procedures applied
by health centers were inappropriate and not in keeping with environmental management plan
developed by NACP. There is no evidence that remedial actions were taken to address the
environmental management weaknesses identified in the baseline study.

Deficiencies in financial management were noted during project implementation period despite
the intensive NGO consultation and capacity assessment during the project preparation period.
The Bank temporarily suspended the use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) in Baluchistan for
lack of receipt of acceptable audited financial statement for FY2004-05. The use of SOEs was
reinstated after the Baluchistan project unit complied with agreed Financial Covenants.

The deficiencies in financial management can be linked to the untimely and limited availability of
qualified financial management staff, and complicated bureaucratic procedures in the government.
Federal and Provincial authorities' efforts to control input, rather than focusing on quality and
delivery of services, further weakened NGOs' performance in delivering services to population
targeted. At time of project closing several NGOs had not received full payments coming from
counterpart funds. There were two instances of complaints specifically on possible corruption in
payments to NGO. Communications related to corruption were forwarded to the World Bank
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) by the project task team leader. The INT followed up on some
occasions with requests for more information. In one case INT inquired about the findings of the
Bank's financial management and procurement review. In another instance INT requested contact
details of all NGOs that had participated in the bidding process. It is not known if INT initiated a
further investigation.

Procurement management was a constraint as well despite the support provided by the
procurement management firm. This was due to several factors: (i) the firm came very late on
board, while 4 contracts had been already in place; (ii) the firm had limited knowledge about the
specifics of Bank procurement guidelines (iii) the TOR for the firm were very ambitious, where
the firm was responsible for the training on procurement and capacity building for both
government and NGOs, the monitoring of the NGO performance, and approval of payments to
NGOs; (iv) the responsibilities of the firm increased overtime, without any change to their
contract cost (A member of the management firm said to ICR team: "we lost our shirt with this
contract!") and; (v) the firm also faced staff shortage. For example, in Sindh they did not have any

                                                12
staff for several months. Notwithstanding the advance procurement undertaken prior to project
effectiveness, the project suffered from delays in finalizing the procurement of service providers,
including the selection of the procurement and management firm. Particularly since national and
local procedural requirements included as many as 6 to 7 approvals at various levels.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project was extended once and given its performance issues in the Sindh Program, a second
extension of the project Closing Date was not approved. It was decided, however, only to extend
the co-financing (DFID Grant) retroactively for a period of six months till June 30, 2010 to ensure
continuity of critical services, namely (i) a successful harm reduction intervention for injecting
drug users in Punjab; and (ii) financing of anti-retroviral pharmaceuticals (ARV) for treatment
and care centers nationwide.

The completion of the project and its post-completion phases were not positive. During 2010 the
implementation of the DFID grant was adversely affected by management issues in Punjab and
the National Program. The manager of the AIDS Program in Punjab terminated the contract of
harm reduction services for IDU without requesting the Bank's no objection, and refused to make
a final payment to the NGO. At the time of writing of this ICR, the matter remained under
arbitration. US$1.32 million of the DFID Grant was still undisbursed on June 30, 2010, and based
on a request from GOP the grant was extended retro-actively until March 2011 for one category
only, i.e., the procurement of antiretroviral drugs (ARV).

At the time of writing of this ICR, the GOP and the Bank were involved in discussions on the
restructuring of the lending portfolio in response to the devastating floods of August 2010. It is
unclear how the preparation of a second HIV/AIDS project, if any, would be affected by this
dialogue. The Bank has offered technical assistance to NACP to adjust its HIV/AIDS strategy,
given the funding constraints due to floods and involvement of new DP in this program.


3. Assessment of Outcomes3

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objective: the objective of preventing the spread of HIV among high risk groups and within the
general population was, and continues to be, highly relevant to Pakistan and consistent with MDG
6. The project remains highly relevant and consistent with Pakistan's development priorities,
including the current HIV program PC-1 2008 ­ 2013. It is also consistent with the stated
objectives of the current Country Partnership Strategy for period FY 2010 ­ 14, where under



3
  Overall project values for indicators presented in the data sheet were taken from the ISR documents; however, these could not
always be reconstructed from final IBBS or third party assessment reports and may have reflected data from preliminary analysis.
Data for specific sites presented here were taken from final report documents.




                                                              13
"Strategic Outcome of Investing in Pakistan's Human Development Resources and Protecting the
Poor", the Bank will extend support on HIV/AIDS among other Human Development priorities.

Design: The focus on targeted interventions among high risk groups was in keeping with global
best practice and is still relevant. However, Component 2 with its focus on BCC for the general
population was, in retrospect, not strategic because of the concentrated nature of the HIV
epidemic in Pakistan, Component 3 of the project; prevention of HIV/STI transmission through
blood transfusion, proved overambitious, although it was a priority of many government officials.

Implementation: The implementation of the targeted interventions through NGOs was an
appropriate strategy, in principle since NGOs had an obvious advantage in dealing with the
marginalized populations at highest risk of HIV infection. The GOP recognized the advantage of
working through NGOs and not having to be directly involved in providing services to groups
engaged in illegal activities. However, the level of mistrust between the GOP and NGOs was high
and this coupled with lack of GOP familiarity with output based contracts resulted in: (i) delayed
recruitment of the NGOs; (ii) delayed payments to NGOs; and (iii) an inappropriate focus on
input and process indicators. The procurement and management firm failed to develop the
appropriate management information systems needed to track progress, and could not sufficiently
support the AIDS control programs in contract management.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

This section analyzes the achievement of the PDO of the project by examining available data for
each of eight Key Performance Indicators listed in PAD.

Indicator #1 - HIV prevalence among vulnerable groups (IDU) & #5 - Use of clean needles during
last week by IDU: At the beginning of the project period, the HIV epidemic in Pakistan was
believed to be marginal and concentrated, driven by vulnerable populations, particularly IDU,
FSW, and MSM. Given the absence of data on these groups at the time of project design, the
target was to maintain prevalence below 5% among these vulnerable populations. Once data
became available in 2004 that indicated higher prevalence rates among IDU in Karachi, this target
became inappropriate. At the same time, the use of HIV prevalence as a PDO indicator is
controversial because it may simply be beyond the scope of any single project to influence and it
is often difficult to interpret the meaning of changes in prevalence rates. (The use of HIV
prevalence as a PDO indicator has been debated in many recent HIV projects.)

The main source of data for tracking this indicator was the STI study conducted in 2004 (in
Lahore and Karachi) and integrated biological and behavioral surveys (IBBS), conducted in three
rounds (2005, 2006/7, and 2008) covering a majority of cities where prevention interventions
were implemented. Data from the first round IBBS conducted in 2005 suggested that by the time
the NGO had been contracted under the project, the epidemic among IDU had already begun to
spread and exceeded the 5% threshold in cities targeted for intervention.

In the absence of a proper baseline and a "without project" counterfactual, it is not possible to
assess the exact impact of the project on the HIV epidemic among high risk groups. However, it is
plausible that the IDU interventions had a positive impact on the spread of the epidemic. The
evidence is strongest in the Punjab, in particular in Lahore and Faisalabad, where decreasing or
stable HIV prevalence trends are consistent with increasing program participation and decreased

                                               14
needle sharing. The picture in Karachi and Peshawar may be more complicated. While HIV
prevalence trends in these cities also show declines or stabilization, increased needle sharing or
decreasing program participation (although still above 70%) make definitive conclusions difficult
(data from Sargodha, Peshawar, and Quetta are not presented due to lack of data and small
population size.)

It is important, however, to note that the results need to be interpreted with caution. First, NGO
providing IDU interventions in Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and Quetta had been in place with
DFID support since 2001 (although at lower levels of financing) and were not taken over under
the project until early 2005. Therefore, any evidence for impact in these cities is likely to be a
combined effect of these two project periods. For example, by the earliest round of IBBS
available in different cities, use of sterile injecting equipment at last injection was already
relatively high among respondents ranging between 60-90%. Project supported interventions in
Faisalabad, Sargodha, and Sialkot began in the Punjab in January 2005. In Lahore, Faisalabad,
Peshawar, and Quetta, the prevalence of HIV did not rise as rapidly suggesting the plausibility
that prevention interventions helped to curb the epidemic among IDU during the project period.
Three of these cities (Lahore, Faisalabad, and Peshawar) showed large increases in program
participation among IBBS respondents between Round 2 (2006/7) and 3 (2008), up from under
50% to over 80% in each site. Similarly, consistent use of clean needles was 59% in cities with
interventions as compared to 27% in cities without large interventions (A Khan 2008). In Karachi
and Sargodha, HIV prevalence levels among IDU were high (i.e. above 25%) in the early rounds
of the IBBS, and then appeared to decline substantially in the third round (2008). These
prevalence trends may reflect reductions in new infections consistent with impressive gains in
program participation in these cities between Round 2 and 3 of the survey, but large declines in
prevalence could be due to other factors, including potentially high levels of mortality among
IDU; and/or high mobility among IDU caused sampling differences.

In many cities (e.g. Karachi, Lahore) key characteristics of the sampled IDU, such as duration of
being an injector, changed markedly from round to round, suggesting that the samples were
capturing different IDU. This is consistent with the view of many NGO workers that the IDU
populations are highly mobile.

These and other factors make the interpretation of HIV prevalence trends very challenging. Even
if the samples were comparable, in order to interpret prevalence trends must account for the
underlying pattern of mortality among IDU, as they are at greater risk of death due to their drug
habits and living conditions, and because there are significant barriers to accessing treatment for
IDU in Pakistan. In more mature IDU epidemics, such as those in Karachi and Sargodha,
substantial numbers of HIV-infected IDU will have progressed to AIDS, and barriers to ART may
result in high levels of mortality. In Pakistan, those IDU wishing to be considered for ART must
discontinue their illicit drug use and demonstrate full family support, which discouraged providers
from promoting treatment and IDU from seeking services. No specific data on mortality among
IDU were available to estimate the impact of death rates on HIV prevalence trends. Without
epidemic modeling and complete and reliable program monitoring data for the entire project
period, it would be difficult to attribute this stabilization of prevalence directly to the program
efforts. However, experience of other IDU epidemics in similar low resources settings, such as in
Manipur in India and in Central Asia, shows rapid increase in prevalence rates with little
indication that they are decreasing, suggesting that interventions in Pakistan had had an impact.


                                                15
Indicator #1 - HIV prevalence among vulnerable groups (FSW): Prevalence rates among FSW
appears to have remained below 5% in the intervention areas based on IBBS surveys conducted in
2005 and 2007. Due to the low prevalence measured in the first two rounds of surveys, it was
decided not to collect a third round of data near the end of the project period. Almost all sites
included in these surveys detected close to zero prevalence. Given the low rates of "coverage",
the continuing low HIV prevalence among FSW is more likely due to already prevalent behaviors
and possibly the preventive effect of male circumcision, which is almost universal in Pakistan.
Respondents of the FSW IBBS reported very low levels of participation in the project; no city
exceeded 15% participation in any round of the survey. Consistent condom use also remained low
to moderate among all FSW city samples, i.e., below 50%. These figures are consistent with the
NGOs assessment conducted in mid 2008, comparing estimated condom need to the level of free
condom distribution reported by the NGO contracted to provide services.

Indicator #1 - HIV prevalence among vulnerable groups (MSW/HSW) & #4 - Condom use during
last sex act among vulnerable populations (MSW/HSW): The project focused prevention
interventions on the subset of MSM who identified as either male sex workers or hijra
(transgender) sex workers (MSW/HSW). While this population is a subset of all MSM, they were
believed to comprise a higher risk population because they had larger numbers of partners. A
majority of the sites where interventions were implemented and IBBS surveys conducted suggest
that HIV prevalence remained below 5%. In Karachi, HIV prevalence did exceed 5%; however, in
the subsequent round, prevalence fell below this threshold. Although HIV prevalence measured
among HSW in Larkhana was very high, at 14% in Round 1 and more than 25% in Round 2, this
was not an intervention site, suggesting a missed opportunity to provide services for a community
of known need. Condom use patterns among MSW and HSWs were low across all three rounds of
the IBBS. Only in Lahore and Faisalabad did condom use at last sex exceed 30%. Participation in
the program was similarly low, though in general higher among HSW than among MSW.

Given the low level of program coverage, other explanations for the low HIV prevalence among
FSW and MSW/HSW may include the lack of overlap between IDU and sex work networks and
the preventive value of male circumcision which is very high in Pakistan.

Indicator #2 - STI (syphilis) prevalence among vulnerable populations: Baseline data for this
indicator come from a 2004 STI study financed by DFID. The survey covered five groups in
Karachi and Lahore and used appropriate forms of probability sampling where possible. Current
syphilis prevalence was particularly high among IDU and MSW/HSW (ranged from 23-60%),
and was more moderate among FSW and truckers (~7% in both groups). Although a measure of
syphilis prevalence was to have been included in the IBBS funded through CIDA, they were not.
Thus, neither end-of-project data nor additional baseline data for other cities with large vulnerable
populations are available for this indicator.

Indicator #6 - percentage of blood transfusions in public sector screened for HIV in labs meeting
quality assurance (QA) standard: The data available for this indicator comes from the third party
assessment by the SOSEC consultancy firm. This assessment selected a sample of public sector
blood banks. Results of screening for HIV were presented in aggregate using blood bank as the
unit of measure, and could not be described in terms of units of blood transfused. The assessment
of screening was based on written records provided by the different blood banks. Record keeping
was cited as being poor in many sites which may result in an unreliable measure of coverage.
Overall, the assessment by SOSEC found that 59% of public sector blood banks fully screened

                                                 16
blood products for HIV at baseline and showed some decline to 46% by the third round of the
assessment. No explanation for this was given in NACP or project supervision document, but
different sites were evaluated at baseline and end-of-project so the difference may be due to
differences in the sample assessed rather than lower performance at all facilities.

There were no data available to measure achievements at the end of the project for indicator #3
(HIV prevalence among women coming for ANC), indicator #7 (percentage of general population
expressing positive attitude towards AIDS patients), and indicator #8 (Among general adult
population admitting to sex with non-regular partner, proportion using a condom). The indicators
3 and 8 did not feature in the discussion of Bank team since it became evident quite early on
during implementation that these would not be relevant in the context of the Pakistan epidemic,
but the team did not formally revise the indicator framework. Indicator 7 was potentially relevant
to assessing the impact of the BCC campaign for the general population. Some data are available
in the DHS 2007 survey and can be included but there is no corresponding baseline from which to
determine whether the program had an effect on knowledge and attitudes among the general
population. Only 44% of female respondents were aware of HIV or AIDS. And only 5% had
correct knowledge or HIV prevention and methods of transmission as defined by the standard
UNGASS indicator. Among those women who were aware of HIV or AIDS, a majority expressed
accepting attitudes towards caring for family members with AIDS (77%) and not wanting to keep
secret that a family member was infected (62%).

3.3 Efficiency

During the project preparation, a cost benefit analysis of the project was undertaken. The net
present value (discounted benefits less discounted costs) of the project was estimated to be
positive at US$647 million in the base case using a 10% discount rate for a 15 year time horizon.
Economic benefits were in the form of medical costs averted by public health facilities (assumed
to be half of total medical costs) and lost earnings averted due to a reduction in HIV infections as
a result of the program. Costs used were the entire cost of the Program from all sources. As there
was no surveillance data at the time projections of future incidence were based on the Indian
experience assuming an increase in new infections of 50% per year. HIV cases (cumulative new
infections) were projected to rise to 4.5 million without intervention and on the assumption that
the program was moderately successful (reducing new infections to 45% annually in the first 5
years and 40% thereafter) it was expected to prevent 2.1 million new infections over the 15 year
period. The model did examine alternate scenarios based on different assumptions of growth in
new infections. NPV was estimated to be zero if increase in new infections was 20% without
project and 15% with project.

In fact, current projections by NACP undertaken in 2009 using the UNAIDS Estimation and
Projection Package (EPP) show a much slower increase in new infections of roughly 19% per
year. It is not feasible to carry out a further detailed analysis on the ex-post benefit cost ratio in
the absence of data on preventive effectiveness that would enable a reliable estimation of
infections averted due to project interventions.

Cost effectiveness analysis. No formal cost effectiveness analysis was carried out for the project.
However, evidence from other countries shows that preventive services for groups at the highest
risk are the most cost efficient means of restricting transmission thereby greatly reducing AIDS
treatment and other costs and providing a high return on investment (Disease Control Priorities by

                                                 17
Jamison et al. 2006). More resources under the project went to services for the most at risk for
HIV infection such as sex workers, injecting drug users, transgender sex workers. Allocations for
prevention for high risk groups accounted for 28% of project costs at appraisal. During
implementation, the focus on these targeted preventive interventions was intensified with their
share increasing to roughly 43% of project spending.

Within the high risk groups, the largest share was spent on harm reduction interventions for IDU -
- the group at the greatest risk and the main drivers of the epidemic in Pakistan. Needle exchange
programs for IDU, which were almost entirely financed by the project, were by and large
successful in promoting safe injecting practices in cities where they were in place. The coverage
of these services was limited to 30 percent of the estimated population of urban IDU. The
achievements of sex worker interventions were modest both in terms of behavior change and
utilization. The quality of services suffered due an inadequate system of routine monitoring as
well as delays in payments to NGO that lead to funding gaps that adversely affected field
activities.

The economic justification for government financing of the HIV/AIDS programs was also based
on externalities and equity issues associated with the epidemic. The project supported activities
that had significant externalities such as interventions for high risk groups and public goods such
as advocacy and communication campaigns which would not be financed by the private sector in
the absence of public financing. During the first phase of the Enhanced AIDS Control Program
(2003-2009) a total of nearly US$83 million was spent jointly by the Bank, other bilateral such as
DFID and CIDA, the UN system and GOP. During the period the government share of financing
was 19% amounting to roughly US$3 million per year. HIV-AIDS spending comprised a
relatively small share of government spending on health in 2008-09 of roughly 2 percent

While there is little data for Pakistan on poverty impacts, research from other South Asian
countries highlights the high cost of AIDS to affected households as well as the differential
impact of the epidemic across wealth quintiles (World Bank, HIV and AIDS in South Asia,
2009). In the context of Pakistan and elsewhere, high risk groups particularly street-based IDU,
sex workers and transgender people are among the most marginalized and socially stigmatized
sections of the population. Surveillance data show that mean income of street based IDU and
MSW/transgender is relatively low. Household survey data point to income disparities in access
to health services that are likely to be further exacerbated due to the high stigma associated with
MARP. With the benefit of hindsight, it can be said that generally allocations for TIs were not
sufficient to scale up coverage to the extent required while some other components particularly
BCC for the general population and blood transfusion were not likely to be cost-effective
interventions in such a concentrated epidemic.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The PDO of preventing the increase of HIV among MARP and in the general population was and
continues to be relevant to Pakistan. Existence of large high risk population along with
persistence high risk behaviors, as confirmed by the STI survey in 2004 and three rounds of the
IBBS, calls for continuous public health efforts to contain the HIV epidemic. This is also
consistent with Pakistan's commitment to the Millennium Development Goals that include halting
and reversing the spread of HIV.


                                                18
The design of the project was in line with best practice for the concentrated HIV epidemics
focusing on MARP. The public private partnership between the government and the NGO to
implement this project was suitable taking into consideration the project development objectives,
the population targeted and the aim of a decentralized implementation. The BCC campaign for the
general population was not relevant to epidemiological scenario of the country. The inclusion of
this component was partly a reflection of the priority of some government officials outside the
AIDS control programs. While the contribution of HIV infections to HIV prevalence is probably
negligible the inclusion of the component in the project is relevant given the importance of safe
transfusion for the general health services. The project design suffered from inadequate
assessment of risks, in particular those related to procurement of NGO services and payment to
NGOs. The project also suffered from an inadequate routing monitoring systems and high staff
turnover at GOP.

Out of eight indicators there is data on only four; however these measure attainment of the
primary PDO, i.e., containing the HIV epidemic. The MTR missed the opportunity to adjust the
result framework with the ground realities. While some gains were made in scaling up prevention
interventions for vulnerable groups (Component 1) for example the IDU interventions in Punjab
were effective, overall the epidemic among IDU was not contained and coverage of the
intervention for vulnerable groups was too low to be able to have a significant impact on the HIV
epidemic in the country. Only modest progress was made in reaching the other groups at high risk,
amongst whom a continued low HIV prevalence may be due to male circumcision and pre-
existing behaviors.

During project preparation, a cost benefit analysis of the project was undertaken. The net present
value (discounted benefits less discounted costs) of the project was estimated to be positive at
$647 million in the base case using a 10% discount rate for a 15 year time horizon. In fact, current
projections by NACP undertaken in 2009 using the UNAIDS Estimation and Projection Package
(EPP) show a much slower increase in new infections of roughly 19% per year. The PAD
examined the NPV assuming different values in the rate of increase in new infections. The NPV
would be zero if the rate of increase of new infections with program is 20 percent and rate of
increase without program is 15 percent.

It is not feasible to carry out a further detailed analysis on the ex-post benefit cost ratio in the
absence of data on preventive effectiveness that would enable a reliable estimation of infections
averted due to project interventions. Within the high risk groups, however, the largest share was
spent on harm reduction interventions for IDU the group at the greatest risk and the main drivers
of the epidemic in Pakistan. Needle exchange programs for IDU which were almost entirely
financed by the project were by and large successful in promoting safe injecting practices in cities
where they were in place.

In conclusion, despite serious challenges which are inherent to projects which for the first time
are providing services for marginalized populations, the project contributed to strengthening the
national response to HIV: (i) the Government developed some capacity in the area of HIV
surveillance, particularly a second generation IBBS; (ii) Pakistani NGO developed increasing
expertise in working with IDU (and other most-at risk groups); (iii) treatment centers financed
under the project have expanded and provided treatment to people living with HIV/AIDS; and
(iv) the Government developed some experience in contracting and engaging civil society to


                                                19
provide effective prevention interventions. However, most activities were carried out with
considerable delays and not at the required scale.

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
See 3.6 below.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional capacity has been an ongoing area of concern. The PAD points out that: "shortage of
staff, particularly in the provincial AIDS Programs and the lack of managerial capacity of the
government and NGO to implement a much larger program and limited experience of NACP and
PACP with Bank procurement are the priority areas of capacity building to be considered for the
successful implementation of the project". This situation did not change substantially throughout
the project. The shortage of procurement and financial management staff, with exception of
Punjab, continued in all provinces throughout the life of the project. The procurement of services
was extremely lengthy and in the case of Baluchistan only one out of six contracts materialized.
The capacity of NACP and PACPs to provide ongoing oversight and monitoring of NGO
contracts improved only slightly. The management and procurement firm did not help to improve
the situation. Despite the provision in the project document for exposure visits, few exposure
visits between provinces were undertaken, although there was sharing of experience among IDU
NGOs and some exposure visits to India were undertaken. The NGOs were supposed to receive
support from other partners in terms of capacity building for better implementation of their
contracts, however with exception of a few workshops conducted by the management firm, other
partners support did not materialize. CIDA support for FSW interventions only materialized
towards the end of the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Even though the blood safety component was overambitious, and accomplished little, it
contributed to the sensitization of the GOP authorities regarding how to improve transfusion
safety. As a result GOP and the German government are now cooperating in a blood safety
program.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was conducted for this core ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

Despite the contribution of the project to improvement of some of the risk factors, the risk of
growth of the epidemic remains. Risk factors such as high number of IDU sharing injection
equipments, high levels of MSM and commercial sex work with low condom use require
appropriate action of high quality, high coverage targeted interventions. However, due to the

                                               20
combination of the very high prevalence of male circumcision and probably low rates of
concurrent multiple partners, the likelihood of a generalized HIV epidemic remains low in
Pakistan.

Deterioration in the security situation and new humanitarian priorities because of the recent floods
along with other human development concerns such as high levels of malnutrition in Pakistan are
among factors which overstretch Bank's capacity to finance HIV programs in Pakistan. GOP and
the Bank are discussing how to restructure the lending portfolio in this context. The Global Fund
to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria recently approved a grant for HIV to Pakistan of around US $40
million; in addition it approved another US $10 million grant from its regional program for the
MSM. CIDA is still financing surveillance until October 2011. Considering the current situation
regarding HIV epidemic in the country and the available funding, there is a dire need for a highly
focused, strategic HIV prevention program among IDU and MSM.

Indications of GOP Commitment to AIDS program:

        The clearest indication of the Government commitment to the program is the fact that the
        PC-1s for the second phase of all programs except Baluchistan have been approved by the
        Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) which is the highest
        economic decision- making body in the country. These PC-1s are well prioritized with
        nearly 80-90 percent of Program costs in Sindh and Punjab allocated for preventive
        services for MARPs and the share of GOP is 20% of total cost.
        Staffing of all programs has been maintained (Baluchistan is the exception).
        Sindh continued with services for HRGs through its own funds for another six months till
        June 2010. The funding has been discontinued now due to the fiscal crunch following the
        floods. Punjab is planning to contract out services for MARPs through its own funds for
        the interim period till June 2011. The selection of consultants has been completed and the
        award of contracts is expected shortly.

The Government through the Economic Affairs Division (EAD) has formally reiterated earlier
requests to continue with the preparation of the proposed follow-on project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project was prepared in a very participatory manner through consultations with all
stakeholders. Intensive consultations with different groups of beneficiaries including FSW and
truckers were conducted for social assessment and mapping exercises. The team also enabled DP
to involve in the project preparation process, which increased DP' commitment to HIV/AIDS in
Pakistan and the level of external financing. In addition, the possibility of public private
partnership (PPP) was widely explored during the project preparation to assess existing NGO'
implementation capacity. The team then reflected the results from the consultations into the
project design and implementation arrangements. The design of the project responded to the low
levels of procurement and contract management capacity by: (i) calling for advanced procurement

                                                21
actions for the recruitment of NGO; (ii) financing the recruitment of a procurement and
management firm; and (iii) insisting on third party assessment of NGO performance.
Unfortunately, these turned out to be insufficient to mitigate the identified risk. The design of the
project also under-estimated the difficulty of developing and implementing a satisfactory
management information system for the NGO working with MARPs.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Unsatisfactory

Besides attention to process issues (contracting of and payment to NGO), the Bank team had a
focus on certain project outcomes measured by key indicators related to high risk behaviors of
MARP which were of utmost epidemiological importance. Aide-memoires emphasize trends in
key indicators and supervision missions focused on the latest available data from the IBBS. This
contributed to dissemination of the results of the IBBS data as well.

The team was also successful in securing additional resources through trust funds from DFID and
CIDA to complement the project activities to expand the targeted interventions and secure TA for
the implementing NGO and procurement of ARV.

Although the reports produced during each Bank mission identified issues such as delayed
payment and procurement process and made reasonable recommendations, the same issues were
repeated in successive aide-memoires. For example, delayed payments to the NGO in Sindh and
later on in NWFP significantly hampered project implementation. The IBBS 2008 showed a
decline in the use of new syringes/needles, which is attributable to the reduced supply of new
syringe/needles and outreach activities for IDU by the NGOs. The limited volume of the NGO
outreach activities was clearly caused by persistent delays in payments from the government to
NGOs working in these provinces. The issue was raised several times by Bank management
including by the SM, CD and regional VP in dialogue with the Chief Minister/Governor and at
the federal level with the Minister Health and even the Prime Minister, which resulted in client
compliancein an ad hoc manner but no systematic and consistent solution was worked out. Given
the protracted and serious problems, Bank management should have more seriously considered
stronger remedies including partial cancelation.

The Bank's limited pro-activity was also observed when the need for restructuring the project
became evident in the second year of the project. At that time, the latest information about the
size of the high risk groups, especially IDU and the level of HIV prevalence among the high risk
groups became available from IBBS, however, the Bank team did not initiate restructuring of the
project to adjust the scale of the original targeted interventions with the HIV epidemiological
realities of the country, except for the Punjab IDU interventions. The "100-day campaign"
organized by Bank team in August 2004 to expand coverage of contracts with NGO to deliver
prevention services to IDU as response to STI survey in July 2004, showing a full-fledged IDU
epidemic in Karachi, was commendable, and facilitated the adjustment of NGO contract in Punjab.
Yet, while the team realized the implausibility of the blood safety component and irrelevance of
any focus on HIV prevalence among pregnant women, the project was not restructured. And,
although the need for additional financing was raised during the MTR in 2006, it never
materialized. Part of the problem could be attributed to lack of flexibility on the GOP regulations


                                                 22
reflected in a very lengthy bureaucratic process required for revision of PC-1s, which were the
binding constraint.

The Bank's task team performance in terms of extension of the DFID trust fund is commendable.
In order to make sure continuation of critical services and procurement of ARV, the team
managed to extend the trust fund for six months and later on for another nine months, both retro-
actively.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Since quality at entry is Moderately Satisfactory, development outcomes and implementation
support are Moderately Unsatisfactory, the overall rating for Bank performance is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The project benefitted from courageous and bold decisions on part of the GOP to focus on the
marginalized and stigmatized population in the community and contract large scale services
provision with the NGO. Hence, the difficulties that the project faced should be seen in the light
of these ambitious undertakings.

The project suffered from persistent and highly bureaucratic processes in the government that
caused protracted delays in the procurement of the NGO services which together with the delayed
payments to NGO adversely affected the project's success. With exception of Punjab, the
government failed to bestow sufficient administrative power for the PACP managers, which could
have solved many implementation challenges.

(a) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

There were two levels of implementing agencies for the project: a) the NACP & PACPs, and b)
the NGO.

At the NACP/PACP level: The project was managed on behalf of the GOP by NACP at federal
level and by PACP at province level. The NACP had overall responsibility for the program and
would oversee implementation of the project, beside management of few contracts at federal level.
PACP had the responsibility of overseeing the implementation of most of the activities at
provincial level, including signing contracts, monitoring performance of the NGO and ensuring
timely payment to the NGO. With exception of Punjab, where the PACP managed timely signing
of the service contracts along with timely payment to the NGO, rest of the provinces, due to lack
of capacity, faced serious implementation challenges both in the process of awarding and
management of the contracts. Capacity at NACP and PACP for managing the project was

                                               23
problematic throughout the project life. There was very high staff turnover especially
procurement and financial management, leading to lack of institutional memory in the programs.
At NGO level: The project service delivery was contracted out to NGO both at federal and
provincial/AJK level. Despite the very lengthy procurement process and many payment delays,
the NGO did manage to provide services to the high risk groups with variable coverage levels.
Regarding IDU services, the coverage was the highest in four cities of Punjab. The success of
IDU interventions in Punjab both in terms of behavioral outcomes and utilization is attributable to
project support. The initial DFID support for IDUs in the province was limited to a small
intervention in Lahore. Project financing over a 5 year period (Jan 2005-Dec. 2009) made it
possible for the program to scale up coverage. At the end of the project nearly 14000 IDUs were
receiving harm reduction services. This has been considered as one of the best programs in Asia
on HIV prevention among IDUs, on which many other projects are modeled, where harm
reduction for IDUs has been done effectively at such a scale.

In early 2010, when a new Secretary of Health was assigned in Punjab, the IDU contract was
cancelled by the PACP, without informing the Bank. The PACP terminated the contract using
contract clause 2.6.1 (e) whereby "the Client in its sole discretion and for any reasons whatsoever
decided to terminate the contract" with 60 days notice. No reason was specified in the termination
letter. The Secretary Health had verbally provided a number of reasons for his action ranging
from procedural deviation in award (PACP had reportedly not cleared the contract with the
provincial law and finance departments), and PACP's weak supervision, to lack of funds after Jun
30, 2010. He however insisted that he wanted to play safe by terminating based on client's sole
discretion. Following the termination the Secretary had stated that the Department would carry
out a verification exercise that included verification of personal identifiers of IDUs. This exercise,
to which the task team strongly objected, was not undertaken.

Overall, the coverage of services to both male and female sex workers remained low, where the
NGO could further increase the coverage of services through enhanced outreach activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The government made the right decision to contract out services with NGO to reach out
marginalized population in the society and to contain the HIV epidemic through strong public
health measures. There was a strong focus on the main drivers of the HIV epidemic in the country,
i.e. high risk behavior of IDU and sex workers. However, poor procurement, financial
management, and non compliance with agreed Financial Covenants significantly impeded project
implementation. Lack of proper political support and leadership prevented strong institution
building which resulted in very high staff turnover throughout the life of the project. Hence, the
government was not able to take full benefit of the available resources of the project.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

NGO Contracts vs. Grants: The project financed large contracts with NGOs to deliver HIV
prevention services. This was different from many other Bank-financed HIV projects where
NGOs or community based organization (CBOs) are provided small grants to carry out HIV
prevention activities. It is usually the NGOs/CBOs who decide where they will work, with which

                                                 24
MARPs and which services they will provide. The Bank's evaluation of these small grants
programs has pointed out a number of shortcomings of the grant approach: (i) there is often
limited coverage of the MARPs leaving many at risk people with no or limited access to services;
(ii) there is limited evidence of effectiveness in terms of altering behaviors (sometimes the lack of
evidence is the result of lack of data collection); (iii) often the services provided are not the ones
that are most needed; (iv) NGO and CBOs tend to focus on relatively easy to reach groups ; (v)
monitoring and evaluation is generally weak; (vi) grant management is very challenging because
there are so many grants; (vii) there are many opportunities for corruption; and (viii) it is difficult
to ascertain whether the government is getting value for money. The advantages of the grant
approach are that it avoids the governments' and the Bank's procurement procedures, can
disburse quickly, and is often politically attractive because it finances many small groups.

Where the NGO contracts were large, the approach displayed a number of advantages as well as
some serious challenges. The advantages included: (i) being able to focus on MARPs with a
standardized package of HIV prevention services; (ii) being able to hold NGOs accountable for
covering the MARPs within their contract area; (iii) facilitating monitoring and evaluation; (iv)
providing economies of scale in terms of contract management, capacity building, and
theoretically cost; and (v) allowing contractors to quickly respond to any "hotspots" that were
detected without having to recruit or train new NGO/CBOs. However, the contracting approach
also faced some serious challenges, including:

   (i)     Setting Prices: Setting the prices of the NGO contracts was challenging particularly
           given the lack of competition. There were large differences between NGOs in terms of
           their price per beneficiary served with limited difference in performance. It probably
           makes sense to set the prices in advance using international comparators or the
           experience of previous contracts in the same country.
   (ii)    Scale: The experience during the project suggested that larger NGO contracts had
           advantages in terms of the amount of time needed for recruitment. Punjab had one
           contract for IDU for the whole province and was signed in little more than 100 days
           while Sindh had five smaller contracts that did not cover the whole province and it
           took more than a year to sign the contracts.
   (iii)   Procurement/Recruitment: Even advanced actions on NGO recruitment did not
           much reduce the very long time needed for contracting the NGO. Both the
           Government and the Bank need to consider more efficient ways of doing this kind of
           NGO recruitment. One option might be to link part of the payment to results in
           reaching the MARPs as judged by a third party.
   (iv)    NGO Capacity: With the striking exception of the NGOs working with IDU, the
           other NGOs lacked the capacity, and often the will, to work with MARPs. It might
           have been helpful to insist that NGOs working with FSW or MSM demonstrate
           experience in that area. Timely TA to help the NGO would have been very helpful and
           should have been financed directly out of project funds.
   (v)     Mapping MARPs: A lack of data on the size of the MARP in cities or provinces was
           an impediment in the project. However, there is a limit to the accuracy of such
           mapping and the results need to be seen as approximate. Nonetheless, a consistent
           approach to mapping using a third party would be valuable in judging progress.

                                                  25
   (vi)    While output-based contracting has in principle many advantages over input-based
           contracting, Government lack of familiarity with the method requires strong
           commitment from that side and much technical assistance throughout to implement it.


Management Information Systems and M&E: The lack of well-functioning management
information systems (MIS) and easy means for validating the data coming from the MIS created
much distrust between the GOP and the NGOs. The GOP did not have sufficient assurances that
NGOs were performing well. The IDU NGOs had an MIS developed by one of the NGO (NZ)
and this functioned moderately well although there were limited opportunities to verify the quality
of data. The difficulty of developing such an MIS should not be under-estimated and taking
advantage of international experience through technical assistance will be very important. For
example, there are a few NGOs in India who have very developed advanced MISs that could have
been used in Pakistan. The Pakistani firm recruited to be the third party verifier of NGO
performance lacked the required technical skills. This aspect of M&E could have been
strengthened by technical assistance.

Support for Procurement and Contract Management: The firm selected to provide
procurement and management support not only lacked the qualifications for the job, it also lacked
incentives to manage effectively. In future projects, TOR should be upgraded to take the above
into account and contracts for such firms should specify that payments be at least partly linked to
performance such as disbursements, contract signing, and timely payments to NGOs.

Staff continuity with proper administrative authority: Most of the success in Punjab could be
attributed to strong ownership of the provincial government that enabled managerial autonomy
with continuity of staff, and flexibility in increasing allocations for priority interventions for IDU.
The manager, FM and procurement staff continued to be the same individuals throughout the life
of the project. Hence, staff continuity with proper administrative authority could be considered as
preconditions for the relevant provinces for any future operation. In the meantime, NGO
competencies and strong NGO/CBO leadership was another important factor for successes in
Punjab.

Flexibility: A project which is first of its kind, both in subject and in implementation modalities,
must be designed in a flexible manner taking its pilot character into consideration. There should
be prior agreement with the Government to make sure there is sufficient flexibility in the
Government's planning process in terms of responding to a dynamic epidemic.

Confidentiality of MARP records: The project suffered from lack of proper understanding of
GOP officials regarding the importance of confidentiality of the high risk population groups and
their HIV status. This requires special advocacy and orientation activities which should have been
addressed in the project preparation phase.

Difficulties of implementing nation-wide umbrella projects: the experience in Pakistan had
highlighted difficulties of implementing umbrella projects covering multiple provinces. The
project faced constraints due to complex process, particularly related to the multi-province
umbrella design of the project where many processes required several layers of approval at the
provincial and federal levels. For example the preparation of additional financing required the
revision of the PC-1s of the National and Provincial Programs which took inordinate time of three

                                                  26
years to be completed. Hence, it would be advisable to consider separate projects with separate
financial agreement with each province for future HIV projects. This is also in line with new PC-1
and the constitutional amendment 18, which decentralizes Health to provincial level.

In built VCT for MARP intervention sites: The referral between the project sites and the VCT
for HIV test did not work well. Third party assessments indicated that the organization and a
follow-up on VCT had been weak. Most clients had been tested once only. Ideally, all those IDU
and sex workers that remain HIV negative should be tested several times per year. Another
limitation of VCT practices was that most NGOs had to send collected blood samples elsewhere
for HIV testing. This led to delayed reporting of results which ended up with loss of clients. In
light of the new WHO guidelines, on-site testing of target populations and same-day results
should be considered to avoid loss in follow-up particularly for mobile populations. Accordingly,
the HIV rapid test should be part of any SDP contract.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See Annex 7 for the Borrower ICR and official Government comments on the ICR.


(b) Co financiers
N/A

(c ) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGO/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                               27
     Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


     Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
 Components                           Appraisal Estimates                                        Actual/Latest Estimate                     % of
                                        (USD million)                                                (USD million)                         Apprai
                                                                                                                                            sal
                  NAC      Punja Sindh      KPK      B'tan     AJK      Total   NACP    Punjab   Sindh    KPK       B'tan   AJK    Total
                    P        b
Component 1: Expansion of Interventions Among Vulnerable Populations
1.1 Service       3.092    2.733    3.400   0.590      0       0.081    9.896   3.092   10.712   3.166    0.486       0     0.05   17.51   176.97
Delivery                                                                                                                     7       3       %
Contracts with
NGO
1.2. Small Grants 0.133    0.154      0     0.025      0          0     0.312   0.130   0.147      0      0.025       0      0     0.302   96.79%

Component 2: Improved HIV Prevention by the General Population
2.1 Behavior       4.693 1.383    0.901    0.787       0         0      7.764   4.678   1.031    0.069    0.203       0      0     5.981   77.03%
change
communication
(BCC) aimed at
the general adult
Population
2.2 Advocacy         0     0        0        0         0         0        0      0        0        0        0         0      0       0        0
2.3 Targeted         0   0.100      0        0         0       0.247    0.347    0      0.049      0        0         0     0.19   0.247   71.18%
interventions for                                                                                                            8
youth, then police
and formal sector
workers
2.4 Improved and   0.547 0.282      0      0.056       0         0      0.885   0.507   0.165      0      0.049       0      0     0.721   81.46%
expanded
management of
STI cases




                                                                   28
 Components                          Appraisal Estimates                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate                                   % of
                  NAC      Punjab Sindh KPK          B'tan    AJK Total                NACP       Punja    Sindh KPK         B'tan           AJK            Total   Apprais
                  P                                                                               b                                                                   al
Component 3: Prevention of HIV/STI Transmission Through Blood Transfusion
3.1 Establishing  0.863     0.062     0        0        0       0     0.925             0.691     0.023       0           0         0            0          0.714      77.18%
and Building the
capacity of
provincial blood
transfusion
authorities
3.2               0.102     0.783     0        0        0       0     0.885             0.077     0.201       0           0         0            0          0.278      31.41%
Implementation
of a quality
assurance system
3.3 Screening of  1.250     2.249   1.183    1.230      0     0.36    6.274             0.890     3.750    0.474     0.448          0           0.191       5.753      91.69%
blood for HIV                                                   2
and other STIs
3.4 Waste         0.383       0       0      0.020      0       0     0.403             0.382         0       0      0.001          0            0          0.383      95.03%
management
Component 4: Capacity Building & Program Management
4.1 Strengthening 5.589     1.794     0      0.550      0       0     7.933             4.692     1.024       0      0.679          0            0          6.395      80.61%
of Federal AIDS
Control Programs
4.2 NGO           1.767     0.015   0.594    0.030      0       0     2.406             1.572     0.008    0.737     0.021          0            0          2.338      97.17%
Capacity
development
4.3 Second          0         0       0        0        0     0.35    0.358               0           0       0           0         0           0.227       0.227      63.40%
Generation HIV                                                  8
surveillance and
evaluation
4.4 Care for      0.533     0.176     0      0.145      0       0     0.854             0.414     0.015       0      0.063          0            0          0.492      57.61%
people living
with AIDS
          TOTAL   18.95     9.731   6.078    3.433      0     1.04    39.24            17.131     17.12    4.446     1.974          0           0.673       41.34
                    6                                           8       6                           3                                                         7




     Table B:              Financing US $ million
 components      Type                            Appraisal Estimates                                               Actual/Latest Estimate                                 %
                of Co-                             (USD million)                                                       (USD million)                                      of
                Financ                                                                                                                                                   App
                  ing      NACP       Punja    Sindh     KPK       B'tan     AJK      Total     NACP      Punja     Sindh     KP        B'tan        AJK        Tota     rais
                                        b                                                                   b                  K                                  l       al
 World Bank     Loan/G     16.112     12.13     7.311    2.747       0      0.891     39.19     13.401    13.71     3.696     1.4        0           0.547      32.8     83.7
                rant                    5                                               6                   3                 57                                 14      1%

 DfID           Grant         0       1.785       0        0         0          0     1.785       0       1.785       0       0          0              0       1.78     100
 TF93986                                                                                                                                                         5        %
 Govt of        Local       2.843     1.612     0.911    0.687       0      0.157     6.21      3.730     1.612     0.750     0.5        0           0.137      6.74     108.
 Pakistan       Share                                                                                                         18                                 7       64%

               TOTAL       18.955     15.53     8.222  3.433       0       1.048     47.19     17.131     17.11     4.446     1.9      0       0.684            41.3
                                        2                                              1                    0                 75                                 46
     Source: Pakistan National Aids Control Program (NACP) - Baluchistan did not provide any financial information despite repeated request from
     both the Bank and the NACP .




                                                                           29
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                        Actual/Latest
                                                 Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
               Components                                               Estimate (USD
                                                  (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                                           millions)
PREVENTIVE SERVICES FOR
                                                          10.53                9.23              87.65%
VULNERABLE POPULATIONS
IMPROVED HIV PREVENTION
AMONG THE GENERAL                                         11.81                9.74              82.47%
POPULATION
PREVENTION OF HIV/STI
TRANSMISSION THROUGH                                      9.21                 7.68              83.39%
BLOOD TRANSFUSION
CAPACITY BUILDING AND
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
                                                          10.55                5.96              56.49%



                Total Baseline Cost                       42.10                32.61             77.46%
Physical Contingencies                                     2.10                 0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                                        3.57                 0.00               0.00
                Total Project Costs                       47.77                32.61             68.26%
          Total Financing Required                        47.77                32.61

Source: Pakistan National Aids Control Program (NACP)




(b) Financing
                                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                        Type of Co    Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
              Source of Funds
                                                         financing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                                      millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                               6.16        0.00        .00
 CANADA: Canadian International
                                                                        3.00            1.04         34.67
Development Agency (CIDA)
 UK: British Department for
                                                                        1.50            4.12         274.67
International Development (DFID)
 International Development
                                                                       27.83           24.88         89.40
Association (IDA)
 IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                                                 9.28            9.24         99.57




                                                                 30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Expansion of interventions among vulnerable populations (Total actual cost
US$ 9.23 million) The objective of this component was to expand and strengthen the prevention
interventions for vulnerable populations (IDU, FSW, and MSM). The primary activities included
contracting NGOs to work with the vulnerable populations creating drop in centers, providing
behavior change communication, peer-educator based outreach, distribution of free commodities
(e.g. condoms and sterile needles/syringes), and provision of clinical services including
counseling and testing and STI management. These interventions focused on vulnerable
populations in cities selected according to what was believed to have the largest concentration of
vulnerable groups. Under the project, between 2004 and 2006, 18 contracts were awarded to
NGOs covering IDUs in 7 cities MSW/transgender sex workers in 6 cities, FSW in 5 cities, jail
inmates in 5 cities and truckers nationwide. Estimates of the size of the vulnerable population in
Pakistan suggest that project intervention cities comprise 44% of the IDU population; 49% of the
FSW and 43% of the MSW/TSW population in the country.


Table 1. Service Delivery Packages (SDPs) - Location and Date of Contract Signing
IDU                                           MSW/TSWs4                                  FSW
                               Contract                                    Contract                                      Contract
Cities         NGO                            Cities           NGO                       Cities           NGO
                               Date                                        Date                                          Date
Karachi 1   Nai Zindagi        June 05*Karachi     ICS                     June 06       Karachi          Amal           April 04
            Pakistan
Karachi 2                 June 05      Hyderabad ICS        June 06                      Lahore           Contech        April 04
            Society
Karachi 3   Al Nijaat     June 05      Sukkur      ICS      June 06                      Multan           Rabta          Nov. 05
Lahore      Nai Zindagi January 05 Lahore          Contech April 04                      Peshawar         ORA            May 06
Faisalabad Nai Zindagi January 05 Faisalabad       Contech Nov. 05                       Hyderabad        Greenstar      May 06
Sargodha    Nai Zindagi January 05 Peshawar        ORA      Dec. 053
Sialkot     Nai Zindagi January 05
            Dost
Peshawar
            Foundation
Quetta      Legend        April 06
* The NGO stopped operations since February 2006
Source: The World Bank Aide Memoire for HIV Financing, November 2007

In 2008, an assessment of NGO performance (Khan, 2008) reviewed program coverage as
measured in terms of commodities distributed against the estimated number of injections per
quarter by IDU and the number of commercial sex acts had by female and male sex workers.
These results suggest that overall coverage for IDU populations was strongest at an estimated
30% of injections covered by free needle/syringe distribution across all intervention cities. This
compares to only 4-5% of commercial sex acts among both FSW and MSW/TSW covered by free
condom distribution. The projected size of the vulnerable population is much higher in the Punjab
and Sindh, which comprise more than 85% of the IDU and SW in the country. There is some




4
  Although Hijra and Transgenders are used interchangeably, the term Hijra narrowly defines transgenders with a female gender
identity. Since, other transgenders such as transvestites are typically not distinguished from Hijras in the surveys that form data
sources for this report; this report uses the term transgender rather than Hijra.


                                                               31
variation by province, with IDU coverage being higher in the Punjab (36%) compared to Sindh
(16%); but SW coverage being higher in Sindh (10%) compared to the Punjab (2-3%).

In addition to the interventions for IDU, FSW, and MSW/TSW the project supported prevention
services for jail inmates in Sindh and NWFP and long distance truckers in 10 sites across the
country. The long distance truckers program began in 2006 and was implemented by FHI. It has
been characterized as well organized with strong MIS, and good coverage, making about 26,000
contacts on a quarterly basis with truckers and cleaners in the last quarter of 2007, and revised its
registration targets from 40,000 to 70,000 in 2007. However, more than a third of the target
represents a lower risk associated population of workers in truck stops who are not as mobile and
less likely to engage in frequent commercial sex or other sexual risk behavior. Over time, the
trucker program has adjusted its strategy to ensure a higher proportion of contacts are made with
long distance truckers.

Interventions for jail inmates were implemented in Sindh (in the cities of Karachi, Sukkur and
Hyderabad) and NWFP (in 2 cities of Peshawar and Haripur). The Sindh targeted interventions
covered roughly 15000 prisoners while the NWFP program covered 4000 jail inmates. The
interventions included BCC through peer educators, VCT, medical services through the NGO
own clinic as well as training of health providers in the jail dispensaries. While the peer educators
provided demonstrations of condom use distribution of condoms was not allowed in the NWFP
jails but in Sindh the NGO was able to supply condoms on a limited basis. Regular advocacy
sessions were undertaken with jail management, district government officials and as well as with
other NGO working in prisons such as legal-aid organizations. Jail inmates were not covered by
IBBS so it is not possible to assess the effectiveness of these interventions. However, the third
party evaluation report noted improvement in services for jail inmates in the last round in 2008
and found the overall quality adequate.

Graph 1: IDU Project performance in Lahore, Faisalabad, Karachi, 2005-2008
                   Moderate to high program participation, high levels of safe
                   injecting behaviour and slowly increasing HIV prevalence -
           100                               Lahore

            90


            80


            70


            60


            50


            40


            30


            20


            10


             0

                           2005                      2007                      2008

                   participated in program   clean needle at last injection   HIV prevalence



                                                  32
                      Large late gains in programme participation, declining
                     clean needle use, and declining HIV prevalence - Karachi
           100

               90

               80

               70

               60

               50

               40

               30

               20

               10

                0

                               2005                        2007                          2008
                                participated in program             clean needle at last injection



                         Large late gains in program participation, high levels of
                            safe injecting behaviour and stable levels of HIV
           100                           prevalence - Faisalabad
               90
               80
               70
               60
               50
               40
               30
               20
               10
                0
                               2005                        2007                         2008
                               participated in program            clean needle at last injection


                                            Source: IBBS, Round 1-3

   Table 2: summarized the list of contracts planned versus contracts realized for each province
   during life of the project:

    Contract          Geographic focus             Duration            Extension                     Remarks

NACP
Truckers            Nationwide                   Jan 05-Jan 08
BCC firm            national                    May 05-May 08
Third Party M&E     assessment of all TIs
                                                 Oct 04-Oct 08
Procurement         contracted by NACP
Management Firm     to support all
                    programs
                                                 Oct 04-Oct 08

                                                          33
Punjab
IDU               4 cities in Punjab       Jan 05-Jan 07     Jan 07-Dec 08
FSW               Multan                      Nov 05
FSW               Lahore                   April 04-April
                                                 09
MSW               Lahore                   April 04-April
                                                 09
MSW               Faisalabad               Nov 05-Nov 09
BCC Firm          Punjab
                                              Aug 06
Planned but not
contracted
Jail inmates      Lahore, Multan,                                            Problems in procurement
                  Rpindi                                                     process, delays
MSW               Gwala, Sialkot, rpindi                                     Decision to go for province-
                                                                             wide proposals
FSW               Gwala, Sialkot, Fbad,                                      Decision to go for province-
                  Rpindi                                                     wide proposals
Sindh
IDU               Karachi 1                June 05 -Jun 08                   Services closed on Feb 2006

IDU               Karachi 2                June 05-Jun 08    Jun 08-Dec 09
IDU               Karachi 3                Jun 05-Jun 08     Jun 08-Dec 09
FSW               Karachi                  April 04-April
                                                 08
FSW                                                          Dec 08-Dec
                  Hyderabad                May 06 -Dec 08    09
MSW/transgender   Karachi, Hyderabad,                        Dec 08-Dec
                  Sukkur                   Jun 06-Dec 08     09
Jail inmates      Karachi, Hyderabad,                        Apr 08-Dec
                  Sukkur                   Apr 04-Apr 08     09
Planned but not
contracted
BCC firm                                                                     Problems in procurement
                                                                             process, huge delays-proposals
                                                                             received on May 31, 2004,
                                                                             TER June 2006
FSW               Sukkur

NWFP
IDU               Peshawar                                   June 08 -Dec
                                           Dec 05-June 08    09
FSW               Peshawar                                                   Office burnt down in Dec.
                                           Dec 05-June 08                    2007
MSW               Peshawar                                                   Work could not commence till
                                                                             July 2007-office burnt down in
                                           Dec 05-June 08                    Dec. 2007
Jail inmates      Peshawar Haripur         March 06-June
                                                 08

                                                  34
 BCC Firm
                                                                                                         The Program and Firm agreed
                                                                April 07                                 to close the contract
 Planned but not
 contracted
 FSW                       Abboatabad
 MSW                       Bannu

 Baluchistan
 IDU                                                       April 2006-June
                           Quetta                          2008
 Planned but not
 contracted
 FSW                                                                                                     Huge variations in prices-
                                                                                                         decision to go for fresh
                                                                                                         proposals under the province-
                           Quetta                                                                        wide package
 Coal Miners               7 mines                                                                       Same as above
 MSW                       Quetta                                                                        Did not get a good response
 Jail inmates              Quetta                                                                        Did not get a good response
 BCC Firm                                                                                                Problems in procurement
                                                                                                         process, huge delays -Bank
                                                                                                         NoC for TE in March 2006- no
                                                                                                         response from Program-2007
                                                                                                         procurement cancelled
 AJK
 BCC Firm                                                   April 07-April
                                                                  09

Table 3: Summarizes the SDP coverage data:
       City        Target      NGO           Size -                                 Registered              (%)          Use services5
                   group                     HASP                                    - NGO                                 (HASP)
Lahore            IDU        NZ6           3,350                                  7,7337                  232%          89%
Faisalabad        IDU        NZ            8,030                                  6,8008                                80%
Sargodha          IDU        NZ            2,450                                  5,8029                                69%
Sialkot           IDU        NZ            700                                    1,58110
Lahore            MSM        Contech       4,150                                  7,54011                 182%          1% (7%HSW)
Faisalabad        MSM        Contech       5,445                                  3,70012                 68%           5% (8%HSW)
Lahore            FSW        Contech       14,225                                 9,25613                 65%           4%
Multan            FSW        Rabta         2,725                                  2,54714                 93%
Multan            MSW        -             -                                      -                                     8% (13%HSW)


5 IBBS 2007 (2008 for IDU and MSW)
6 Note: in the Sept 2009 report, the following `regular' NSEP clients are mentioned: Lahore 3324; Fsbd 3103; Sargodha 3249; and Sialkot 1155.
This is expectedly less than the total registered.
7 Khan report 2008
8 AM May 2008
9 AM May 2008
10 Khan report 2008
11 Final report Contech
12 AM May 2008
13 Contech final report
14 Khan report 2008

                                                                      35
         City                  Target              NGO        Size -       Registered    (%)   Use services5
                               group                          HASP          - NGO                (HASP)
12 cities                     IDU             NZ             Tbd       0
Karachi 1                     IDU             NZ/MA
Karachi 2                     IDU             PS             3150      3,36015          106%   72%
Karachi 3                     IDU             Al Nijat       3000      3,30616          110%   72%
Larkana                       IDU             PS             Na        Na                      17%
Karachi                       MSM             ICS            10,900    14,24617         130%   21%
                                                                                               (31%HSW)
Hyderabad                     MSM             ICS            2,450     1,231            50%    1% (13%HSW)
Sukkur                        MSM             ICS            1,150     763              66%    1% (0%HSW)
Karachi                       FSW             Amal           NA        11,48118                10%
Hyderabad                     FSW             Greenstar      2,300     1,71919          75%    2%
9 jails Sindh                 Jail            SBDS           15,000    22,73720
Peshawar                      IDU             DF             150       13821                   80%
Peshawar                      MSM             ORA            1,100     52022            47%    3% (22%HSW)
Peshawar                      FSW             ORA            1,200     12023            10%    0.2%
Peshawar/Haripur              Jail            DF                       3,80024
Quetta                        IDU             Legend                                           5%
                                                                               25
10 sites                      Truckers        FHI            70,000    62,825

Component 2. Improved HIV prevention by the general population (Total actual cost
US$ 9.74 million) This component included four sets of activities: a behavior change
communication (BCC) campaign aimed at the adult general population; advocacy among decision
makers to support the AIDS control program; targeted communication activities among selected
general population groups (e.g. youth, police, formal sector workers); and improvement and
expansion of STI management in public sector facilities. During implementation the focus was
mainly on BCC and advocacy.


Behavior Change and Communication (BCC) and Advocacy: The Program invested substantially
in BCC and communication for the general population and advocacy. The BCC campaign for the
general adult population was to be conducted at both national and provincial levels, with the
following behavioral objectives: (i) use of condoms with non-regular sexual partners, (ii) use of
STI treatment services when they have symptoms of STI, and knowledge of the link between
STIs and HIV; (iii) use of sterile syringes for all injections; (iv) reduction in the number of
injections received, (v) voluntary blood donation (particularly among the age group 18-30), (vi)
use of blood for transfusion only if it has been screen for HIV, and (vii) displaying tolerant and


15 Altaf report, September 2009
16 Altaf report, September 2009
17 Altaf report, September 2009, for all ICS coverage data
18 SoSec report 2008
19 Altaf report, September 2009
20 AM Dec 2008
21 AM May 2008
22 AM May 2008
23 AM May 2008
24 AM May 2008
25 AM dec 2008

                                                               36
caring behaviors towards people living with HIV/AIDS and members of vulnerable populations.
Advocacy was aimed at mobilizing support for the program among key decision makers and
opinion leaders.

A qualitative review of the BCC component has pointed out most of the objectives particularly
focusing on risk behaviors in the general population were not appropriate during a concentrated
epidemic such as in Pakistan. Other objectives such as (iii), (iv) and (v) would be better if targeted
to special populations such as health workers. Screened blood supply, particularly, needs to be
addressed as an advocacy issue with government and health institutions.

The communication and advocacy activities were implemented by private firms contracted by the
National, Punjab, NWFP and AJK AIDS Control Program. In the absence of a common
framework or strategy the campaigns were ad hoc and poorly coordinated. A wide range of media
were used including TV and radio spots, sponsored talk shows and documentaries, print ads and
articles, posters, brochures, stage productions and events. The messages focused primarily on
modes of transmission and means of prevention while largely neglecting the important goal of
mitigating stigma and discrimination. Due to official resistance to explicit mention of the
protective effect of condoms, messages on safe sex were constrained and a disproportionate
emphasis placed on blood safety and use of sterilized needles for therapeutic injections.

The campaign's limited ability to convey accurate messages is borne out by recent evidence on
knowledge of HIV risks and prevention. A survey of urban men in six large cities, a key target
audience, found that overall 90 percent of the respondents had heard of AIDS and a large
proportion 85 percent were aware that the disease was sexually transmitted (Population Council
2007). However, only 18 percent of those who had heard of the disease could respond without
prompting that condom use was a means of prevention. Awareness of AIDS was also high among
urban women; nearly 80 percent of ever-married women aged 15-49 living in major cities had
heard of AIDS but only 30 percent knew (with prompting) that condoms can reduce the chances
of getting HIV (Demographic and Health Survey 2007). Knowledge of risks and prevention
methods varied by residence, economic status and education and as expected rural women in poor
households were the least informed.

Advocacy: The implementing agencies were able to mobilize broad support for the Program by
key government officials, and other groups including religious leaders. As a result the Program
did not face any opposition to interventions for highly stigmatized groups such as male sex
workers and transgender sex workers even in provinces such as NWFP at a time when the
provincial government was lead by a coalition of religious parties. However, advocacy activities
lacked a strategic focus and clearly defined objectives and constraints to be addressed and many
of the "advocacy" events undertaken by the media firms were general awareness raising
workshops with audiences that did not necessarily include key decision makers. The objective of
advocacy would be to facilitate, remove barriers to the implementation of the program, whether
through the development of AIDS related policies, enactment of laws, modification of school
curricula or standards of care, changes in the attitudes of the judiciary system, or the media.

The review of the advocacy activities under Component 2 suggest that a number of advocacy
events were carried out: seminars, workshops, meetings and trainings with groups such as policy
makers, district authorities, religious leaders, journalists, media personnel, civil society
organizations, police and others. However, the lack of a clear strategy, specific set of activities,

                                                 37
and targets or indicators of performance make the effectiveness of these events difficult to assess.
The NACP representatives interviewed as part of the review indicated satisfaction with the efforts
of the agency engaged to support the advocacy efforts, but not specific data exists which assess
changes in the enabling environment to support the AIDS control program which resulted from
these advocacy efforts.

Targeted communication activities for youth, police and formal sector workers were conducted in
the form of events for these groups accompanied by promotional/educational materials produced
by the same agency which conducted the BCC campaign and advocacy efforts, for example a
brochure on Youth and AIDS for youth events, a poster on universal precautions for hospital staff,
and others. In addition, promotional materials such as t-shirts, mugs, key chains, red ribbons,
male condom packs, female condom purses and bags were designed and produced for various
groups. Much of this was done with support by the UN Agencies particularly work with formal
sector workers and uniformed personnel. In addition Global Fund Grant Round 2 supported
interventions for out of school youth.

The review suggests that similar to the advocacy activities, targeted interventions for these
selected general population groups were not part of a coherent strategy and difficult to assess in
overall effectiveness.

The sub-component of improving STI management among the general population was not
strategic in the Pakistan context of a concentrated epidemic. Limited progress was achieved. Key
outputs include the development of revised national guidelines for adopting syndromic
management of STIs. These guidelines were intended to support enhanced clinical services at
already established public sector STI clinics and recently trained providers. Other proposed
activities such as improving recording and reporting and development of a check list for
supervision of facilities were not implemented. The third party evaluation of quality of care and
public hospitals and clinics (in 2006) suggested very poor levels of quality. Only 18% of the 57
clinics were assessed as providing satisfactory or highly satisfactory quality of care based on a
broadly defined index. Patient satisfaction was low with only 36% of patients saying they were
satisfied or highly satisfied with services during an exit survey. Only 25% of physicians could
make a correct diagnosis when confronted with a standard scenario and only 11% indicated a
correct treatment. This is not entirely surprising as only 21% of physicians surveyed indicated that
they had been trained on the syndromic management approach to STIs.

Component 3. Prevention of HIV/STI transmission through blood transfusion (Total actual
cost US$ 7.68 million) The objectives under this component were to establish provincial level
blood transfusion authorities to regulate private and public sector blood banks; implement a
quality assurance system for screening blood products; and provide material support for screening
blood products and addressing waste management issues at blood banks. Guidelines for
standardization of transfusion equipment, diagnostic kits and supplies were developed through the
project and supplies for public sector blood banks were provided with no real shortages. Project
support for the procurement of hepatitis C kits was contingent on the establishment of an effective
QA system. The project was delayed in developing quality assurance guidelines due to a poorly
developed initial draft of the guidelines and the need to engage international technical assistance,
before finally being adopted.



                                                38
Legislation to regulate blood transfusion facilities had been passed before the project activities
began, however, operationalizing these laws were an ongoing struggle in all provinces, except for
Sindh. Toward the end of the project, Sindh province received 237 applications for certification
from the approximately 400 existing private blood banks. Only 57 had been approved to continue
operations, and 91 were given notice to be closed. These data are consistent with a study financed
by the Global Fund which found that among private blood banks only 71% claimed to screen all
blood for HIV. The actual observations of the blood banks show only 50% doing HIV screening
and found very limited quality assurance. [Aide Memoire, May 2006] Midway into the project,
the Bank and NACP recognized the need for a more comprehensive strategy and larger separate
project to address issues in blood safety.

Component 4. Capacity building and program management (Total actual cost US$ 5.96
million) To build the capacity of AIDS Control Programs for managing the enhanced HIV/AIDS
control program, more staffs were deployed at both federal and provincial levels. However, with
exception of Punjab, the retention of staff, especially procurement and FM staff was a continuous
problem. Provincial manager were sent abroad for study tour. All programs were fully equipped
and adequately housed with the exception of AJK, where the building was destroyed during an
earthquake in 2005.

The NACP recruited a management and procurement firm to assist the AIDS Control Programs in
various aspects of management and procurement. The firm could expedite, to some extent,
recruitment of NGO and procurement of goods in some provinces, but overall due to weak
capacity of the firm and being overcharged with different tasks, the performance wasn't
satisfactory. The Management Firm was also supposed to support contract management and
organizational capacity of NGO, but not their technical capacity. The mid-term review in 2006
called for investment in capacity building. NACP organized some technical capacity building
activities through consultancies (e.g. TA assessments for MSM and sex worker interventions and
a workshop for MSM interventions).

The Program benefited from the integrated biological and behavioral surveillance system (IBBS)
among the vulnerable population established through CIDA support. The three rounds of IBBS
Surveys conducted during the duration of the project were useful for tracking epidemic dynamics
and assessing project outcomes. However, overall the IBBS results remained under-analyzed,
under-utilized and suffered from lack of proper dissemination among partners. The reports were
not made available expeditiously and the contents were not user-friendly.

NACP recruited a third party firm to independently assess the performance of NGO providing
HIV prevention services, the quality of blood bank services, and the quality of STI treatment
services. The firm conducted three rounds of assessments during the project. The reports of blood
transfusion were of reasonable quality but there was room for improvement in the methods used
to assess targeted interventions. There were considerable delays in the submission of reports and
the findings not discussed with relevant stakeholders. Monitoring of other project components
such as treatment and care and BCC has also been inadequate.

Treatment and Care: Antiretroviral (ARV) therapy was introduced in Pakistan in 2005. Standard
Operating Procedures and the National Strategic Framework for HIV Treatment, Care and
Support in Pakistan were developed in 2006. At present there are thirteen treatment centers
established in tertiary care teaching hospitals across the country in both the public and private

                                               39
sector. These centers provide free ARV, management of opportunistic infections, acute and
chronic HIV care, STI management, counseling, in-patient admissions, and referral/specialty
services to HIV positive people and their families. The project financed medicines for
opportunistic infections and supported key staff positions. Support for procurement of ARV
medicines and training has been provided by the Global Fund Round 2 Grant.

As of December 2009 there were about 2900 people living with HIV/AIDS registered with these
centers and of these 1,300 were receiving free antiretroviral therapy. The key challenges facing
the treatment and care program include: (i) reducing barriers to access and increase utilization of
the centers particularly be most at risk groups; for example those IDU wishing to be considered
for ART must discontinue their illicit drug use and demonstrate full family support; this
discouraged providers from promoting treatment or IDU from seeking services; (ii) Strengthening
quality of care; and (ii) strengthening capacity and management including through the
development of an effective monitoring system to track performance.




                                                40
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Please see section 3.3 in the main text of the ICR.




                                                 41
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Benjamin Loevinsohn       Sr. Public Health Specialist          AFTHE
Inaam Haq                 Sr. Health Specialist                 SASHN
Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere     Lead Operations Officer                 --
Muhammad Bashirul Haq     Sr. Health Specialist                   --
Nancy Fee                 AIDS Specialist, UNAIDS Secondee        --
Salim Habayeb             Lead Public Health Specialist           --
Maj-Lis Voss              Operations Officer                      --
Mohammad Khalid Khan      Program Assistant                     SASHD
Javed Karimullah          Team Assistant                        AFTHE
Ahsan Ali                 Sr. Procurement Specialist            EAPPR
Arif Yaqub                Sr. Financial Management Specialist     --
Qazi Azmat Isa            Sr. Rural Development Specialist      SASDA
Silvia Albert             Program Assistant                     SASHD
Akhtar Hamid              Lead Counsel                            --
Nawaf Al-Mahamel          Counsel                                 --

Supervision/ICR
Asif Ali                  Senior Procurement Specialist         SARPS
Agnes Couffinhal          Sr Economist (Health)                 ECSH1
Shahnaz Kazi              Sr Economist (Health)                 SASHN
Benjamin P. Loevinsohn    Lead Public Health Specialist         AFTHE
Riaz Mahmood              Financial Management Analyst          SARFM
Hasan Masood Mirza        Consultant                            SARPS
Sandra Rosenhouse         Sr Population & Health Spec.          SASHN
Furqan Ahmad Saleem       Sr Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM
Hasan Saqib               Sr Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
Ghulam Dastagir Sayed     Health Specialist                     SASHN
Tayyeb Masud              Health Specialist                     SASHN
Henri Aka                 Procurement Specialist                SASHN
Naoko Ohno                Operations Officer                    SASHN
Virginia Loo              Consultant                            SASHN

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending

                                          42
  FY02                      74   218.08
  FY03                      54   138.11
                  Total:   128   405.73
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                      40   105.82
  FY05                      51   136.90
  FY06                      41   102.55
  FY07                      41    94.20
  FY08                      43   110.53
  FY09                      33    71.26
  FY10                      19    49.33
 FY11                       28    81.53
                  Total:   297   758.15




                           43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                      44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                         45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                    NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAMME
                        (National Institute of Health, Chak Shahzad, Islamabad)




                                      DRAFT
              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (Cr: 3376-PAK, Grant Ho44-PAK)




                          Pakistan HIV-AIDS Prevention Project
                                     (2003 to 2008)
                                     Rs. 2.85billion




                                       Prepared by
                             National AIDS Control Program
                        Ministry of Health, Government of Pakistan
                                        Islamabad
                                            2010




                                            46
                                                         Table of Contents


Abbreviations and Acronyms ................................................................................................. ii, iii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...................................................... 1
   1.1 Context at Appraisal .................................................................................................... 1
   1.2 Project Objectives ........................................................................................................ 2
   1.3 Beneficiaries of the Project........................................................................................... 3
   1.4 Project Design............................................................................................................... 3

2. Implementation, Operational Experiences and Outcomes ............................................... 4
   2.1 Component 1: Services for vulnerable population sub-groups ..................................... 4
   2.2 Component 2: Improved HIV prevention by general population ................................. 6
   2.3 Component 3: Prevention of HIV/STI transmission through blood transfusion .......... 7
   2.4 Component 4: Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance ................................................... 8

3. Performance of the Programme .......................................................................................... 9

4. Lessons Learnt and Changes Proposed for Future ......................................................... 11




                                                                      47
       ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AJK           Azad Jammu and Kashmir
BCC           Behavior Change Communication
CSW           Commercial Sex Workers
DoH           Department of Health
DFID          Department for International Development
FCA           Federal Committee on AIDS
GoP           Government of Pakistan
HMIS          Health Management Information System
HIV           Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA           International Development Agency
IDU           Intravenous Drug User
IEC           Information Education and Communication
IPC           Inter-personal Communication
KAP           Knowledge, Attitude & Practice
MCH           Maternal & Child Health
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH           Ministry of Health
MSM           Men having Sex with Men
NACP          National AIDS Control Program
NBTC          National Blood Transfusion Committee
NGO           Non-Government Organization
NIH           National Institute of Health
PBTA          Provincial Blood Transfusion Authority
PHC           Primary Health Care
PIHS          Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
PLWHA People Living with HIV/AIDS
PACP          Provincial AIDS Control Program
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
QA            Quality Assurance
Rs            Rupees
RTI           Reproductive Tract Infection
STI/STD       Sexually Transmitted Infection/Diseases
TA            Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNAIDS        Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
UNDCP         United Nations Drugs Control Program
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNFPA         United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF        United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
VCT           Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WB            World Bank
WHO           World Health Organization




                                           48
Secretary, Ministry of Health, Islamabad:

Deputy Director General Health, MoH, Islamabad:

Senior Joint Secretary, MoH, Islamabad:

Executive Director/National Coordinator, National Institute of Institute of Health:

Manager, National AIDS Control program:




Profile

1.        Name of the Project               Enhanced HIV/AIDS Control Programme

2.        Sector                            Health

3.        Location                          National Institute of Health, Islamabad.

4.        Sponsoring Ministry/ Agency        Ministry of Health

5.        Executing Agency                   Ministry of Health

6.        Name of Project Director           Dr. Sajid Ahmad

7.        Postal Address                    National AIDS Control Programme , National
                                            Institute of Health, Chack Shahzad, Islamabad.

8.        Telephone Office                   9255096, 9255241-42. 9255367-8. 9255378
                 Residence                   9203703, 2823729.

9.        Fax No.                           9255214

10.       E.mail address:                   info@nacp.gov.pk




                                              49
1. Project Context, Goal, Objectives, and Design:


1.1.    Context at Appraisal
Since 1987, the number of reported HIV infections and AIDS cases had been steadily on the rise and were
distributed in all geographical regions of the country. As of June 30, 2002, the total numbers of reported
cases were 1940. However, the WHO/UNAIDS forecast model estimated HIV positive cases to be
approximately 70,000 to 80,000 with 10,000 to 21,000 cases in youth i.e. 0.1% of the adult population.
The mode of transmission of infection in HIV positive persons on cumulative basis (1997 ­ 2002) was as
follows: heterosexual transmission (41.1%); contaminated blood or blood products (16.1%); injecting
drug use (3.3%), homosexual or bisexual (2.1%), and mother to child transmission (1.4%). The mode of
transmission in 34% of the reported HIV positive cases could not be established. The male to female ratio
at that time was 6.5:1 and 6:1 in reported HIV positive and AIDS cases, respectively.

The Reproductive Health and Family Planning Survey (RHFP) of 2001 by the National Institute of
Population Studies (NIPS), Islamabad reported that 42% of married women had heard about HIV and
AIDS. The majority of respondents knew about the major modes of transmission and prevention.
According to the findings of a study conducted in 2001 to assess the KABP of people in response to
AIDS awareness campaign, the overall awareness level in both rural and urban areas was 77% wherein
respondents had heard the word AIDS, 74% of the respondents knew that AIDS is a disease and 72% of
the respondents knew AIDS is a dangerous disease and has no cure. Television was identified by the
respondents of the survey as the main source of information about HIV and AIDS.

Government Strategy: The Government of Pakistan was fully aware of the growing challenge of HIV
and AIDS and its implications for the population. The Ministry of Health (MoH) had established Federal
Committee on AIDS (FCA) in 1987 soon after first case of AIDS was reported. The National AIDS
Control Program (NACP) was established with a focus on establishment of HIV screening centers and
launching awareness campaign. In its early stages, the programme focused on the laboratory diagnosis of
suspected HIV cases, but progressively it began to shift its focus towards HIV prevention and control
interventions. In 1994, the programme was brought under the multi-donor financed Social Action
Program with a more pragmatic agenda including information education, blood screening and establishing
provincial implementation units. The government's commitment is reflected by the fact that about 80% of
all expenditures on HIV and AIDS have been financed by the Government of Pakistan (GoP).

In 1999 - 2000, the GoP with the assistance of UNAIDS and other development partners undertook a
strategic planning exercise with input from all stakeholders. This exercise resulted in development of a
National Strategic Framework (NSF) in 2001, which provided strategic vision to the national response in
the coming years. The framework envisaged a multi-sectoral response and development of partnerships
and collective action, which was essential for decreasing the vulnerability of Pakistani population towards
HIV and AIDS. This national strategic framework formed the bases of World Bank supported Enhanced
HIV and AIDS Control Programme (EHACP) launched in 2003.

Enhanced HIV and AIDS Control Programme (EHACP): Launched in 2003, The Enhanced HIV and
AIDS Control Programme was aimed at improving human capital with specific reference to improving
the health status of the population of Pakistan. It was envisaged to contribute towards preventing
                                                    49
mortality among the labour force by keeping the HIV/AIDS epidemic at the current low level of below 1
percent in the general adult population and below 5 percent in any of the high-risk population sub-group.
Limited available research in early 2000s indicated that HIV prevalence was 1-2% in vulnerable/high risk
population; which included, sex workers, migrant workers, injecting drug users, men who have sex with
men, long distance truckers, blood and blood product recipients, STI patients, professional blood donors,
jail inmates, and seamen.

The programme focused on HIV prevention among most at risk groups via public-private targeted
interventions. HIV prevention among IDUs and sex workers in provincial capitals and other major cities,
implemented through private sector and civil society, formed the core of this project. Some interventions
were also implemented for jail inmates and long distance truck drivers under the EHACP. The truckers'
intervention was placed in 9 cities across the country. A major component of the Enhanced Programme
was to raise awareness about HIV among the general public to mitigate stigma and discrimination against
people living with HIV and AIDS. A comprehensive Treatment, Care and Support system was set up
nationwide via 9 public and private centres and NGOs that provide counseling, logistic and nutrition
support to People Living with HIV (PLHIV). About 600 PLHIV receive AIDS medicines (antiretroviral
drugs - ARVs) nationwide and twice as many are registered and managed in anticipation of ARVs. In
addition to that, HIV care of the children and Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission of HIV
(PPTCT) were started by the NACP and PACPs. The NACP (MoH) set up the national HIV/AIDS
Surveillance Project with support from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). This
project conducts annual rounds of internationally acceptable surveillance that forms the basis for much of
the national data including monitoring and evaluation of the HIV response.

1.2.    Project Objective

The overall objective of the programme was to prevent HIV from becoming established in vulnerable
populations and preventing its spread to the general adult population while avoiding further stigmatization
of the vulnerable populations. The vulnerable populations included female sex workers (FSWs), injecting
drug users (IDUs), men who have sex with men (MSM), prisoners, and migrant workers particularly long
distance truck drivers.

Given  the  inadequacy  of  available  data  on  HIV  prevalence  and  its  spread  patterns  among  the  adult 
population,  and  the  lack  of  substantial  research  on  mostatrisk  populations,  coupled  with  insufficient 
experience and limited capacity of the AIDS control programmes and participating NGOs at the time of 
project  initiation,  the  broad  objectives  of  the  project  were  most  suitable  to  the  programme  needs. 
These  objectives  reflected  the  priorities  outlined  in  the  national  strategic  framework,  which  was 
developed with the participation of all stakeholders in 2002, and were in accordance with the epidemic 
trends  in  Pakistan  (Asian  Model)  which  called  for  targeted  intervention  among  high  risk  groups.  The 
objective  of  preventing  the  spread  of  HIV  among  high  risk  groups,  and  within  the  general  population, 
was and  continues  to be  highly relevant  to Pakistan. Surveillance  data indicated that prevalence rates 
are  increasing  among  high  risk  group  especially  IDUs.  Globally,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
established in September 2000 had established `halting and reversing the spread of HIV prevalence' as 
an explicit goal for all countries. 


1.3.    Beneficiaries of the Project
                                                        50
The project was aimed to provide direct benefit to male sex worker, female sex workers, Hijras, long
distance truckers, intravenous drug users, coal miners and jail inmates through preventive and curative
package of services. The estimated numbers of direct beneficiaries were as follows: Long distance
truckers 40,000; Commercial Sex Workers (CSWs) 36,000; Injecting Drug Users (IDUs) 19,000; Men
who have Sex with Men 14,000; Jail inmates 27,500; Coal miners 30,000; Youth12.0 million; and Public
sector employees 250,000. In addition these, the entire population of the country was expected to benefit
from Behavior Changes Communication (BCC), Health education, Blood transfusion services and
Management of STI services.

1.4.    Project Design


The project design was developed through a participatory consultative process involving provincial actors
and other stakeholders. Feedback was sought from key federal planners on the preparation and design of
the project throughout the planning period. The detailed design of the project was based on the National
Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS control prepared by the NACP and adopted by the GoP



At the core of the project design was the idea of public-private partnership. This concept was not entirely
new to Pakistan as similar arrangements between GoP and NGOs/private sector had been in place in the
past as well. The underlying assumption for the overall project design was that NGOs and the private
sector are able to provide HIV prevention services to vulnerable populations more effectively and
efficiently than the government. A distinguishing feature of the design of EHACP was the emphasis on a
systematic approach to working with NGOs and the private sector rather than expansion of the piecemeal
approaches of the past. The new approach included a focused and phased strategy towards
implementation instead of trying to do everything at the same time. Most of the services provided to
vulnerable populations and some other activities including BCC and advocacy were implemented directly
by NGOs and private sector. The outcome based nature of the contracts with NGOs and private sector
were designed to give more flexibility in implementation and room for innovative initiatives. Similarly,
the small grants programme was incorporated to allow opportunity to smaller NGOs to come up with and
implement new ideas for prevention and control of HIV and to build their own capacity for becoming
competitors in the next rounds of biddings.


The project design envisaged to bring about some key policy and institutional reforms. These included; (i)
establishment of provincial blood transfusion authorities to implement existing legislation (ii)
development and implementation of guidelines related to bio-medical waste management and (iii)
development of technical guidelines on issues such as bio-technical reviews of proposed studies and
contents of pre-and post-HIV test counseling.

2. Implementation, operational experiences and outcomes of the project

There was no formal revision of the project components, nor were there any major changes made to the
scope and design of the project during the implementation phase. In the 4th year of project, DFID
allocated 15 million Euros for the provision of ARVs and strengthening the existing interventions. The

                                                    51
original date for project closing was June, 2008. A no cost extension was granted to the project from June
2008 to June 2009 and was later extended till December 2009. Subsequently a request was approved for
further extension till March 2010 for the (i) ARVs procurement services, and (ii) Service delivery for
IDUS in Punjab.

2.1.    Component 1: Services for vulnerable population sub-groups (Total base cost: Pak
        Rs724.115 million)

One of the major constraints during the design and implementation phase of this component was the lack
of authentic data on sub-group populations and their behavioural patterns. A thorough analysis of existing
mapping studies of most-at-risk populations was undertaken and it was agreed that the existing studies
were sketchy and presented either underestimates or overestimates about the numbers. Consequently,
comprehensive mapping of vulnerable sub-groups was undertaken in 12 major cities of Pakistan. Targets
for service delivery contracts with NGOs and private sector were set in accordance with findings of the
mapping study. A management consultancy firm was hired for building the capacity of AIDS control
programmes to contract out the services to NGOs and private sector firms which were selected through an
open competitive process. The bid evaluation committees in each province consisted of members from a
cross-section of their respective health departments and representatives of the NACP and the management
consultancy firm.

Since the outcome-based service delivery contracts was a new concept for almost all involved, a major
problem faced during the first few months of implementation of these contracts was a lack of sufficient
understanding of the nature of contracts, which lead to contracting parties assuming certain expectations
which were not actually part of the contracts. For example, the quarterly monitoring and evaluation in
some instances resembled financial auditing of the contracting NGOs or firms, where the monitors were
more interested in the inputs and channels of service provision rather than the quality and output of
services. Moreover, the constitution of the monitoring committees was such that it sometimes took weeks
to arrange monitoring visits. On top of this, the contracting NGO or firm had to be certified by the
management consultancy firm before the release of quarterly payments. A further complication was that,
apart from Punjab, the financial powers were not delegated to programme managers and the payments
could not be made with a clearance by health department/ministry. This resulted in substantial delays in
payments to the contracting NGOs. Though the NGOs and firms claimed that they did not stop service
delivery and made for delays in payments from their own resources, it certainly left a bad feeling between
NGOs and PACPs during implementation process in at least the initial phase of the project. Nevertheless,
the problem of delayed payments was gradually overcome and after initial difficulties the implementation
of this component in provinces went on smoothly.

The service packages for Most at Risk Populations (MARPs) included information provision, skill
development, condom distribution, syringe exchange, drug harm reduction inclusive of detoxification and
preventive/curative care in a setting that could also cater to the VCT needs. According to HASP round III
surveillance, the utilization of SDPs among MARPs, particularly the IDUs increased considerably over
the duration of the project.

Service delivery interventions with IDUs was the main success of the programmes as shown by flattening
of epidemic trajectories in cities were SDPs for IDUs are in place--Lahore and Karachi. On the other
hand, the trajectory continues to soar in other towns and cities where no service provision was contracted

                                                   52
under the project. As shown by behavioural surveys, the project has contributed significantly toward
adoption of safer behaviors among IDUs where the service delivery packages were in place.

                              Always used new syringe in                 Shared a needle during last
          IBBS rounds
                                     last month                                   injection
                                All    SDP Non-SDP                       All       SDP      Non-SDP
            Round 1            22%     26%       8%                     35%        15%        56%
            Round 2            41%     59%       27%                    40%        28%        12%
            Round 3            46%     60%       23%                    23%        14%        38%
                       Note: IBBS round 1, 2, and 3 were undertaken in 2005, 2006 and 2008.


Though the results of the bio-behavioural surveys were encouraging, the coverage of HIV prevention
services remained low among venerable groups, both in terms of numbers and types of target groups
reached. For instance; the coverage of harm reduction services for IDUs was only 15.5% compared with
the planned coverage of 45%, the FSWs service delivery packages focused mainly on brothel-based sex
workers and the MSM interventions were not effective as most of the projects working with MSM
targeted transgender and transvestites, which are comparatively easier to reach.

The quality of service provision in provinces was not very satisfactory in some instances due to capacity
issues of some of the participating NGOs whereas others NGOs especially those working among IDUs in
Punjab and Karachi are very well-experienced. However, the project did not clearly outline how the gaps
in technical capacity would be filled if the programme were to expand to include newer cities, introduce
newer interventions, and/or reach newer target groups.

The NACP was responsible for implementation of a service delivery package for long distance truck
drivers in 9 cities of Pakistan. This project was contracted out to FHI through competitive bidding.
Around 50000 truckers were provided services over the project duration of 3 years. The project developed
strategic behavioral communication strategies, provided condom education, distributed water-based
lubricants and condoms, and monitored the organization and locations of sex work. It also provided
primary healthcare services for truckers, including diagnoses and treatment of STIs and access to
voluntary counseling and HIV testing. Under the small grants project, which was also the responsibility of
the NACP, a number of NGOs and CBOs were given small grants over the course of the project. The
NACP's contract with the management consultancy firm for capacity building was successfully
concluded.


                     Achievements of NACP under objective-1 of the enhanced programme
                    Sub-Components                                           Achievements
      Mapping of Vulnerable population groups in            Mapping completed in 10 cities
      10 cities                                             (12 cities also covered through HASP)
      Delivery of Service Packages for Long                 50,000 truckers provided services in 10
      distance truckers                                     major cities
      Pilot testing innovative approaches (10 small         All small grants awarded and completed
      grants)


                                                       53
       Provincial capacity building in procurement &       The firm completed its contract and
       contract management by a firm                       evaluation under progress

One of the significant outcomes of this component of the project was that the networks of PLHIV took
root during this period and an endeavor on legislations dealing with their rights was embarked upon.

2.2.     Component 2: Improved HIV prevention by the general population (Total cost: Pak Rs.
         801.331 million)

For BCC activities and advocacy for general population under this component, a media communication
firm MIDAS was selected by NACP through open competition. MIDAS launched its BCC campaign
through print, TV, Radio, CCTV and cable and managed to deliver more media insertions than committed
at the time of the contract. In addition, MIDAS also implemented as part of the BCC and advocacy
campaign, outreach prorgrammes for schools and colleges, sporting events, red ribbon campaigns and
street theatres and helpline for questions and queries regarding HIV and AIDS.

The contract between NACP and MIDAS was successfully completed. However, some issues regarding
the contents of the BCC messages arouse during the implementation of MIDAS contracts with KPK and
AJK PACPs, which affected the working relations between the media firm and the provincial
programme/departments of health and resulted in problems with the timely release of payments to the
media firm.

As part of targeted interventions with youth, labour and uniformed persons NACP developed a National
Strategy for youth and conducted various other activities in this regard. To improve and extend the
management of STIs as one of the objective of component 2, a National STI Management Guideline was
prepared and NACP conducted a large number of trainings on syndromic management of STIs.

Despite significant efforts at advocacy, much remains to be done to provide an enabling environment in
which implementing agencies can work effectively and in which target populations can be more readily
accessed and encouraged to adopt safer behaviours. Work is underway to develop legislation on
HIV/AIDS but a lot of groundwork remains to be done in terms of advocacy and lobbying to pave the
way for a rights-based anti-discriminatory law.


               Achievements of NACP under objective-2 of the enhanced programme
                    Sub-Components                                     Achievements
        BCC & advocacy for general public through      The firm completed its contract and its
        a firm                                         evaluation completed
        Targeted interventions for Youth, Labour &     National HIV strategy for youth developed
        Uniformed personnel                            and various activities conducted
        Improved and expanded management of            ·      > 1600 health care workers trained in
        STIs through trainings and provision of              STIs management
        medicines                                      ·      STI medicines (Rs. 7 Million)
                                                             distributed in public sector hospitals
                                                       ·     National STIs management guidelines
                                                     54
                                                            developed


A key lesson learnt during implementation of this component was to avoid singular focus on mass media
and change the strategy from merely awareness raising to communication and advocacy. Nevertheless,
The Enhanced Programme has succeeded in raising the awareness among decision makers in the country
through its advocacy efforts. Government officials are increasingly favourable to HIV programming and
HIV control work has even involved religious leaders in strategic locations.

Component 3: Prevention of HIV/STI transmission through blood transfusion (Total base cost
                 Pak Rs. 621.131 million)

The objective of this component was to reduce the transmission of HIV and other STIs through
transfusion of blood and blood products. The target was to ensure 100 percent screening of blood and
blood products against HIV and Hepatitis B and C. Following measures were taken to meet this objective.
The NACP developed Quality Assurance guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for
transfusion of blood and blood products; HIV and HBV screening kits were made available in all public
sector blood banks; capacity building of blood bank staff was done, universal precautions for blood
transfusion were promoted, blood transfusion authorities were established; and a national blood
transfusion strategic framework was developed through a consultative process. A National Blood
Transfusion Safety Ordinance was developed and promulgated to protect the general public from HIV
transmission through blood and blood products. This was done through an extensive mass media BCC
campaign for the general population, key policy/decision makers, political leaders, faith-based
organizations, and the ministries of education, narcotics, and religious affairs.


                 Achievements of NACP under objective-3 of the enhanced programme
                    Sub-Components                                      Achievements
       Development of QA guidelines                     QA guidelines and SOPs developed
       Provision of HIV & Hep. B screening kits         HIV=280,000 & HBV=295,000 screening
       (390,000 each) & consumables in public           kits and consumables supplied to BBs in
       sector BBs                                       Federal Govt. hospitals
       Establishment of National and provincial         ·    Blood transfusion authorities
       blood transfusion authorities                        established
                                                        ·    National Blood transfusion strategic
                                                            framework developed

2.3.     Component 4: Capacity building and progamme management (Total cost: Pak Rs.
         711.844 million)

Deficiency of staff particularly for financial management and procurement had been a key challenge for
NACP from 2003 to 2006. To meet the project objective under component 4, more than 60 percent of the
professional programme staff was recruited during the course of the project, and capacity building of the
staff was carried out at federal and provincial levels.




                                                   55
Monitoring of NGO interventions was steady feature during the implementation of project. It was done
through the provincial AIDS Control Programmes, Ministry of Health and the consultant firm as well. For
this purpose, monitoring manuals and toolkits were developed and quarterly monitoring reports of the
SDPs were fed into a monitoring MIS. NGOs submitted their quarterly report at the provincial level.
Towards the later stage of project a system of regular meetings with NGOs was evolved to share findings
of monitoring reports.

Three annual rounds of 3rd party evaluation were conducted to evaluate the performance of various
projects. The HIV and AIDS Surveillance Project (HASP) was established and it conducted one pilot and
three full annual rounds of surveillance in 12 major cities. There has been an increase in HIV-related
research in the past three years. These include the mapping conducted by HASP as well as mapping
studies undertaken by two HIV intervention projects for CSWs and MSWs, and IDUs; DFID supported
STI/RTI studies; and various assessments carried out with migrant workers, youth and adolescents. Data
from the surveillance and behavioural research have been made available to provide a much clearer
picture than previously available of HIV prevalence and risk behaviors and practices among the key
populations. Nevertheless, some gaps in monitoring and surveillance system still remain and to address
these gaps a comprehensive M&E framework has been evolved but it is still not operational.

Against a target of establishing 5 HIV treatment centers, 13 ART and 7 PPTCT centers were established
which are providing free VCT, medical consultation, ART and diagnostics. The providers in these centres
have been trained locally and internationally. The main limitation in provision of services was, however,
the limited access to care for all HIV infected individuals. This limitation is being addressed by enhancing
case detection mechanisms in the SDPs. Another limitation was sub-optimal quality of care provided at
some centres leading to treatment failures, resistance to treatment and death. This weakness will be
rectified by enhancing M&E of the programme and with improved training of providers.


                 Achievements of NACP under objective-4 of the enhanced programme
                   Sub-Components                                     Achievements
       Recruitment and capacity building              >75% of professional staff recruited and
                                                      ongoing capacity building
       III party evaluation for various projects (3   All rounds of evaluation studies and
       annual rounds)                                 operational research studies completed
       Establishment of HIV/ AIDS Second              HASP established and four rounds of
       generation surveillance with CIDA              surveillance conducted in 12 major cities
       Establishment of 5 HIV/AIDS treatment          12 centers established, providing free VCT,
       centers                                        medical consultation, ART and diagnostics



3. Performance of the programme 

Before the start of Enhanced programme, the NACP was severely understaffed, had very limited financial
resources, a sketchy database on HIV prevalence, its transmission patterns and only rough estimates of
vulnerable populations. Likewise, the provincial implementation units were severely constrained in
human resource and technical capacity. There was very limited service delivery to most-at-risk

                                                      56
populations and the BCC campaign was also under resourced. Many of these weaknesses of the
programme were adequately addressed under the Enhanced Programme.

To address the gaps in national response identified in a mid-term review in 2007, a multi-sectoral
approach and a reorganization of the national and provincial programmes were recommended. This
required creating an enabling environment, strengthening the institutional framework, building the right
capacity, and scaling up programme delivery. The MTR was, therefore, used as an opportunity for multi
sector collaboration and therefore some progress has been made towards achieving a multi-sector
response with projects conducted in partnership with the Ministry of Education (MOE), the Ministry of
Labour, Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis (MOL), and the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Zakat and
Ushr.

The capacity of provincial programmes and participating NGOs has considerably improved. More
NGOs/private firms are eager to participate in HIV prevention and control initiatives and there is a greater
understanding of the modalities and working of the outcome based contracts introduced under the
enhanced programme. There is now more acceptance of HIV prevention efforts among general population
and opinion leaders and a willingness among the policy makers in government sector to take initiatives
and own HIV prevention efforts.

The salient achievements of the project are summarized as under:
      Substantial expansion in the number and scope of HIV prevention interventions for high-risk
      groups and vulnerable populations through public sector financing.

      Strengthened role of public-private partnerships in service delivery i.e. partnership with over 350
      NGOs under the umbrella of national and provincial AIDS consortia.

      Inclusion of condom promotion as an integral component of service delivery packages for high-risk
      and vulnerable populations.

      Introduction of an extensive mass media campaign to raise awareness among general adult
      population about the methods of HIV transmission and its prevention.

      Promoting active involvement of other ministries and departments like Ministry of Education,
      Ministry of Narcotics, Ministry of Religious Affairs and others.

      Development and implementation of protocols and operational guidelines in a number of areas like
      VCCT guidelines, guidelines for laboratory diagnosis of HIV and AIDS, infection control
      guidelines, and guidelines for syndromic management of STIs and others.

      Development and promulgation of National Blood Transfusion Safety Ordinance to prevent HIV
      spread through transfusion of blood and blood products.

      A number of research studies to understand biological and behavioural trends of STIs and HIV
      among high-risk and bridge populations.
        

                                                    57
     Development of National Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Framework to feed into policy and
     programme planning.

     Establishment of National Network of PLHIV and preparation of legislation dealing with human
     rights.

     Formulation of National HIV and AIDS Policy and Legislative Framework.

A major achievement during this period was the development of the National HIV/AIDS Policy Document'
2005 with an aim to provide and maintain an enabling environment for HIV/AIDS prevention and care
programs and services through a consistent multi-sectoral process at all levels of government and
community. Likewise, the `HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment Act, 2007' was designed to establish
National and Provincial AIDS Coordination Committees to provide a multisectoral forum for
coordination of the national and provincial response. This act also supports the government in providing
HIV-specific information, care, support, equitable access to treatment and stigma/ discrimination
reduction for PLHIV, vulnerable populations that have quasi-legal status and the bridging populations of
families and clients. Both the documents await approval from the government.

4. Lessons learnt and changes proposed for future 

The EHACP completed its five years of implementation in June 2008; however, it was extended till
December 2009. Although the HIV response in Pakistan has evolved to a coordinated and multisectoral
level, in order to meet the MDG Goal 6 of "Halting and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS" by the
year 2015, urgent scaling-up the program interventions is needed. Therefore, the PC-1 of the EHACP was
revised in 2008. It has a total budget of US$ 99.4 million and was approved in 2008 by Provincial
Development Working Parties (PDWP), Central Development Working Party (CDWP) and Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC).
Rapid geographical expansion of the HIV epidemic from large cities to smaller towns/cities demanded
immediate scaling-up of prevention and control services to various new locations. Although the overall
total of MARP groups showed a nearly 2-3 fold increase over the original estimates, only about 40% of
the IDUs and less than 15% of the M/F/HSWs are being currently accessed. The remaining would have to
be targeted to achieve the National Universal Access target of 60% coverage for F/MSWs and 80% for
IDUs.

ARV treatment till 2008 had been provided by the GFATM grant R-2. Currently, the provision is being
facilitated through Continuation of Services (CoS) proposal of Global Fund R-2 grant. In order to ensure
uninterrupted supply and strengthening of this vital service, a complete HIV and AIDS care component
was needed to be incorporated in the revised PC-I.

Increasing prevalence of HIV among spouse/female partners and families of IDUs prompted the need for
comprehensive services provision to all MARPs including provision of primary health care, STI
medicines, behavior change communication services as well as Voluntary Counseling and Confidential
Testing (VCCT) and Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission (PPTCT). Safe blood transfusion needs
an enhanced scope to cover Hepatitis B and C screening in all public sector blood banks. Programme


                                                  58
Management of the all AIDS control programmes needs further capacity building, especially in the fields
of research, surveillance, monitoring and evaluation and procurements.

The main challenges faced during the Enhanced AIDS Control Programme include: 1) limited coverage
of the most at risk groups in most locations across the country, 2) limited quality of many of these
interventions, 3) limited mechanisms to understand the contextual nuances, that impact the interventions
and limited flexibility in the plans to incorporate lessons from ongoing experience; 4) limited mechanisms
for appropriately addressing the interventions for different targets including the general public; 5) the
focus of the communication campaign on mass media which did not allow exploration of the best
modalities to deliver optimal messages; and 6) monitoring and evaluation based on inputs and channels
rather than impact or outcomes; thus leading to insufficient understanding of the lessons from experience
to be assimilated into day to day operations.

Going forward, the NACP seeks to rectify many of these limitations. The main thrust is to expand
coverage of targets that are considered important based on an understanding of the trajectory of the
epidemic. The project design of the revised PC1 has the ability to add additional cities or alter the content
of the interventions based on real time experiences. The contracts for SDPs will now be given for a whole
province. This will allow flexibility to the SDPs to go where the programme is needed (based on mapping
and surveillance).

Some weaknesses were identified regarding procurement and financial management during the project
implementation. NACP and PACPs did not have appropriate procurement systems in place. Computerised
management information systems (MIS) to track commodities or inventories were also lacking. Moreover
the procurement procedures of the programmes were lengthy and contorted. This resulted in scanty or
inconsistent data. The procurement was reactive rather than active. In contrast, the procurement from
donors such as condoms from DFID and ARVs from Global Fund was less complicated. A major
complicating factor for financial management of the programme was that the national and provincial
programme managers could not release contract payments beyond a certain limit as they were designated
as Category II officers under the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules 2001.

The relatively slow utilization of committed expenditures was due to: (i) substantial delays occurring in
procurement of services due to reasons like long time taken to evaluate proposals, (ii) delays in
payments to the contracted firms and NGO's (iii) capacity limitations of the programmes and NGOs
that limited the pace of implementation, and (iv) frequent changes in programme management.

At the time of annual budget preparation, PACP and NACP had the flexibility to raise a budget demand,
keeping in view their absorptive capacity. However, NACP exercised limited authority to introduce the
implementation of an intervention that was not included in the original approved programme (PC-1). Also,
there was no flexibility to internally re-adjust the costs of various budget categories without the approval
of the finance department. In a situation where the epidemic may change direction or new issues arise
within the five-year period, the perceived inflexibility of the PC-1 for responding to such changes has
proved to be a real hindrance in executing work plans.
The Government of Pakistan is committed to controlling HIV and is signatory to a number of
international conventions including the International Conference on Population Development (ICPD), the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), United Nations Special Session on HIV/AIDS (UNGASS).
These commitments are manifest by the depiction of HIV/RTIs/STIs as a priority area in policy
                                                     59
documents including: the National Policy for Development and Empowerment of Women, the Population
Policy of Pakistan, the Reproductive Health Services Package 1999, the National Health Policy 2001 and
the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Medium Term Development Framework 2005-10 and Vision 2030.




                                            WB-ICR
                                      Comments by NACP
   1. Report states that BCC for general populations and blood transfusion as design
      components were not appropriate for the concentrated phase of epidemic and were
      perhaps included due to political influence. This inference is partially correct as it was
      not fully clear at the stage of EHACP inception that Pakistan is in concentrated phase of
      HIV epidemic and also inclusion of BCC for general population and blood transfusion
      were well identified priority areas in the NSF-I. Also, the program design was finalized in
      consultation with WB and other stakeholders in the country.

    2. Involvement of too many implementing agencies was again due to program design and
       was intended to build the capacity of civil society in Pakistan and promote Public-Private
       Partnership concept. This is very well acknowledges achievement of the program.

    3. The report recommends that the focus in the design should have been on Sindh and
       Punjab only; the provinces with highest concentration of risk populations, but again this
       was not well known at the time of the project development. However, during the course
       of implementation, maximum utilization of funds was observed in Punjab and Sindh.

   4. The report very correctly identifies that slow procurement of services, recruitment
      problems in contract management, capacity issues of APCs and NGOs, limitation of
      coverage of targeted populations were the main challenges in implementation.

   5. It is correctly inferred that delayed start of the project was due to lengthy government
      procedures, but for many of the other instances especially in relevance to procurement of
      services, delays were also observed due to lengthy procedures at World Bank.

   6. The comment on payment delays to NGOs in Sindh, NWFP and at federal level owing to
      clearance required from health ministry/department is partially correct. Such delays were
      only observed towards the end of project especially at federal level and there were
      multiple reasons for these delays.

   7. The comment that additional financing was not processed by the Bank because of delays
      in approval of the PC1s is not correct. All PC-1s were approved well within time by the
      PDWPs, CDWP and ECNEC, but delay was observed at World Bank level due to
                                                 60
   multiple reasons. PC-1s were approved from ECNEC in November, 2009, while the
   agreement for this project ended on 31st December, 2009.

8. All PDO indicators were selected in consultation with World Bank and NACP or PACPs.
   The report gives data on 5 PDOs rather 4 and data on PDO 7 can be obtained from End
   Project Evaluation report of BCC component.

9. The comment that the target of below 5% prevalence among vulnerable populations
   became inappropriate after 2004 when higher prevalence rate was discovered among IDU
   in Karachi validates the fact that project design was not very appropriate for concentrated
   epidemic.

10. Not clear why report states that inclusion of BCC component was a priority of some
    government officials outside AIDS control programmes and what evidence was shared
    with ICR team to draw this conclusion.

11. The comment that the need for additional financing that was raised during the MTR never
    materialized because of the inflexibility of GOP regulations is also not fully correct.

12. The lesson learnt that larger NGO contracts have advantages in terms of amount of time
    needed for recruitment is partially correct because such contracts also create monopolies
    with a number of disadvantages, as they were observed in Punjab.

13. The inference that the project suffered from the lack of proper understanding of GoP
   officials regarding the importance of confidentiality of the risk population groups and
   their HIV status is not fully correct. This issue was observed only in one province
   towards the end of project i.e. in 2010 and was also linked to a number of other issues as
   well.




                                           61
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                         62
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Review of Component 2: "Improved HIV Prevention by the General Population" of the
      HIV/AIDS Prevention Project for the World Bank, Pakistan, Barbara A.K. Franklin, PhD
   2. AIDS in South Asia (understanding and Responding to a Heterogeneous Epidemic), HNP
      Series, Stephen Moses et al,
   3. Effectiveness and Coverage of HIV Interventions in Pakistan: Insights from
      Triangulation of Program, Field and Surveillance Data, 2008, Adnan A. Khan,
   4. World Bank (2003 ­ 2009), Pakistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project: Aide-memoires
   5. World Bank (2003 ­ 2009), Pakistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project: Implementation
      Status and Results Reports (ISR)
   6. HIV Second Generation Surveillance in Pakistan National Reports Round I-III (2005,
      2006-7 and 2008), Canada-Pakistan HIV/AIDS Surveillance
   7. The end of project evaluation of the National AIDS Control Program's BCC component -
      2008, Kamran Sadiq
   8. Third Party Evaluation Reports for National AIDS Control Program, 3 rounds, SoSec,
      Consulting Services, Pakistan UK
   9. National Study of Reproductive Tract and Sexually Transmitted Infections, Survey of
      High Risk Groups in Lahore and Karachi, 2005, FHI




                                           63
MAP




      64
