Document df
F D ON       i            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
:g.--N  TO                       Report No. P-1951-CM
REPF-ORT! S ODESK
WITHIN * .
ONE WEE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSIST-ANCE PROJECT
December 8, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization;



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT          =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                   =   CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 1,000             -   US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000         =   US$4,082
1/   Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
FAC:      FONDS D'AIDE ET DE COOPERATION OF FRANCE
USAID:    UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
UNDP:     UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed cred-
it to the United Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$4.5 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance a technical assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program, A
Special Study Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976. In October and November 1976, an economic mission
visited Cameroon and a report is in preparation. The following sections,
which are substantially similar to those included in the Second Douala Port
Project President's Report dated August 20, 1976, incorporate comments from
this ecoiibmtc-mission.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon has a population of about 7.3 million (mid-1975) 1/ and
covers an area of 475,000 km , about the size of France. The country's
natural resources are varied, but not always easily accessible. Soils and
climatic conditions permit cultivation of a wider range of crops than is
commonly found in West Africa, and the forest areas of the southeast con-
tain large untapped timber resources. The north holds promising potential
for livestock development.
4.   While the main opportunities for development in Cameroon lie in the ex-
pansion of agricultural production, including forestry, the country has the
potential to increase production of import substitutes needed for a growing
domestic market, and to process alumina and agricultural and forestry pro-
ducts for export. A bauxite project is in the early stages of preparation,
and offshore oil and gas exploration is being carried out and has yielded
some promising results.
5.        Commerce, transportation and transit services are other important
economic activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast
underpopulated areas. The country moreover serves as a main export route for
landlocked Chad. As a result, large investments in port and inland transport
infrastructure are essential to promoting agriculture, forestry and industry,
and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
1/   Revised estimate based on the first population census taken in 1976.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Past Performance
6.        During the first decade of independence (1960-1970), the Govern-
ment's primary objective was to unify the nation and to ease serious in-
ternal political and social tensions. Output of agriculture and industry
grew rapidly and, along with high world prices for cocoa and coffee, re-
sulted in a 7 percent per annum real growth rate. Gross investment averaged
about 14 percent of GDP, slightly over half in the public sector, with the
largest part devoted to the transportation network, the most immediate
development constraint. A major effort was also directed at expanding
education and diversifying agriculture. Significant increases in fiscal
revenues combined with stringent expenditure controls produced sizeable
budget surpluses that made it possible to accumulate reserves and to finance
a large part (up to 40 percent) of public investment out of local revenues.
However, this policy also imposed excessive restraint on much needed current
expenditure in such areas as road maintenance, public health, and education.
7.        During the period 1971-1975, growth of real GDP slowed to less than
3 percent per annum. This was caused by factors largely outside Cameroon's
control such as: (i) low export prices for cocoa and coffee during 1971 and
1972; (ii) several years of drought in the north; (iii) a drastic decline in
domestic and foreign private investment triggered primarily by the relative
stagnation of the agricultural sector and by the completion of the most
obvious import substitution projects during the preceding decade; (iv) a
drop in 1975 in world demand for both cocoa and timber; and finally (v)
rapidly rising import prices.
8.        The Government reacted to these developments by stepping up public
investment, which has increased by 50 percent to reach annual averages of
about US$190 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Development
Plan (1972-1976). At the same time, greater emphasis has been placed on
agricultural output. Within a public investment program averaging 9 per-
cent of GDP, rural development has comprised about 18 percent, transport
and communications 42 percent, energy 6 percent, and education 9 percent.
Since nearly 75 percent of public investment has been in sectors where its
contribution to domestic output is both indirect and delayed, the impact of
this substantial investment effort on economic growth was limited during
the Third Plan period. In addition, physical realizations have been in
many cases less than projected due largely to substantial cost increases
and the subsequent need to reduce the scope of projects or defer them.
9.        The balance of payments has not been a major constraint until re-
cent years; however, imports increased rapidly in 1974 and 1975 as a result
of worldwide inflation and the heavy public development expenditure, espe-
cially in capital goods. At the same time agricultural exports declined,
particularly exports of timber, causing a sizeable current account deficit
in 1975. Together with a decline in private capital inflows this resulted
in a fall in reserves from a level equal to nearly three months of import
requirements in 1970 to one-half month at the end of 1975. Thanks mainly
to considerably improved export demand and higher prices, especially for
coffee and timber, by May 1976 gross reserves had recovered to the absolute



-3-
level of 1972 and 1973. However, because of continuing international in-
flation, Cameroon's official gross international reserves, in mid-1976, still
covered less than one month of import requirements, a low level by usual
international standards but still acceptable within the "Banque des Etats de
l'Afrique Centrale" (BEAC) monetary union arrangements.
Prospects and Development Strategy
10.       Cameroon's development effort over the next five years will be car-
ried out under the Fourth Plan (1977 - 1981). A Bank economic mission
reviewed its recommendations on the level and composition of public invest-
ment with the Government in November 1975 and agreed on overall priorities.
It is anticipated that short and medium-term growth of GDP will be 5 to 6
percent per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved during the
1960s. However, if the Government can maintain a high volume of public
investment and further expand and diversify the country's production base,
more satisfactory rates of growth can be attained in the early 1980s. With
this goal in mind, the new Five-Year Plan has set a very ambitious public
investment target of over US$2 billion in constant 1974 dollars or two and
one-half times that achieved during the preceding plan period. The Plan
gives tncr-easing emphasis to the development of directly productive sectors,
particularly agriculture and electric energy, while the share of transport
infrastructure investments is declining somewhat but remains high in abso-
lute figures. Social investments (particularly for sports), and adminis-
trative buildings, see their importance considerably reduced. These changes
in sectoral priorities are very much in line with the recommendations of the
1975 economic mission. The overall investment targets, however, appear very
high indeed in almost all sectors and substantially exceed the investment
levels the mission considers physically possible to achieve over the next five
years. Consequently, reductions in Plan targets will almost certainly be
unavoidable during the plan period. These cuts will have to be carefully
assessed so as to make sure that the sectoral priorities established in the
Plan are not distorted during execution.
11.       To achieve even the lower investment targets suggested by the Bank
mission, the Government must strengthen its ability to choose, prepare, and
implement projects, particularly in the rural and transport sectors. Some
progress is being made in this direction.   Special planning units are grad-
ually being established within the technical ministries. A Government-owned
consulting firm, the "Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique,"
was created under the Ministry of Economy and Planning to accelerate project
preparation. Commercially-oriented public corporations are also serving to
strengthen the project implementation capacity of the public sector. Never-;
theless, further improvements are needed, particularly in the management of
public corporations and in strengthening and coordinating rural development
institutions. The project presented in this report is designed to assist
efforts recently undertaken by the Government in these fields by providing
technical assistance experts, training local staff, and financing high prior-
ity studies and project preparation in key economic sectors.



- 4 -
12.       In addition to the physical limitations imposed by absorptive
capacity constraints, financial considerations also suggest that public
investment during the Fourth Plan is unlikely to exceed US$1.3 billion in
constant 1974 dollars, or some $400 million per year in current dollars.
Indeed, this is about the maximum Cameroon can possibly hope to finance.
Budgetary revenues already reach 17 percent of GDP and cannot be expected
to increase much faster than the economy as a whole. At the same time
reserves of the stabilization funds are likely to stagnate, considering
the uncertain price outlook for most export crops. Current expenditures,
on the contrary, will expand as a result of recent increases in public in-
vestment in transport, education, and health. Furthermore, public debt
charges will grow rapidly, particularly those of public enterprises, and
will absorb an increasing share of public savings. Consequently, in the
next five years, public savings after debt service will probably not ex-
ceed US$100 million per year, or some 25 percent of total public invest-
ment, as compared with 38 percent over the past few years. Cameroon will
thus have to rely on external financing for the bulk of its public invest-
ment.
13.       An increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a.period of
relatively-slow economic growth, and unfavorable terms of trade, will re-
quire careful foreign debt management. However, on the reasonable assump-
tion that at least 50 percent of foreign public capital inflow will be on
concessionary terms, the foreign debt service ratio could be maintained
below 10 percent by 1980. Cameroon's proven ability to make effective use
of external resources, and the Government's dedication to development are
reasons for added external support. To avoid further rapid buildup of debt
service, lenders, including the Bank Group, should provide a large part of
their assistance on concessionary terms. They should also be prepared to
finance a high proportion of project costs including, when necessary, a part
of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$245 mil-
lion and cover eighteen projects: six in agriculture, seven in transporta-
tion, three in education, one in public utilities, and one small- and medium-
scale enterprise project. Transportation represents the largest share (55
percent) of our past commitments followed by agriculture (nearly 30 percent).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
October 31, 1976 and includes notes on ongoing projects. Although delays
and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in the execution of proj-
ects, the Government has consistently shown willingness to collaborate with
the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Gov-
ernment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including ex-
port-oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in
rural areas; to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the
country's infrastructure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs



and increase employment in urban areas; and to increase the efficiency of
Cameroon's institutions.
16.         In agriculture, we have been able to help the Government further
diversify production by financing its oil palm and rubber plantations in
the east and west, and rice irrigation and livestock in the north. The
ongoing cocoa project is helping modernize cocoa growing by smallholders and
raise rural productivity in areas south and west of the capital.      The rubber
project approved in June 1975 will develop the southwest coastal region.
Preparation work for rural development projects in populated but poor regions
is underway with the assistance of the Bank.       Preparation of the Zapi-East
Integrated Rural Development Project is nearly completed and the project is
scheduled to be presented to the Board during FY78.      Field appraisal of the
Rural Development Fund Project has just been completed.     The second stage of
an oil palm development project (SOCAPALM) which is designed to help meet a
rising domestic demand for palm oil and which would also inaugurate a small-
holder development program is scheduled to be presented to the Board during
the current fiscal year.    Furthermore, the Plaine des Mbo Rural Development
Project, which is currently being presented to the Board, will help finance
studies and three-year trial activities required before a full-scale rural
development program can be launched. Besides promoting much needed foodstuff
product-ionr --increased Bank Group lending for agriculture will support the
Government's effort to focus on rural development in order to improve income
distribution and to achieve a better balanced regional development.
17.         Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector.        The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities.     The Second Highway Project of 1973 was
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system.       The proj-
ect has encountered severe cost overruns which have been partly alleviated
by a recently approved Supplementary Credit.     The Second Railway Project of
1974 has focused on track improvement and expansion of the equipment needed
to maintain and augment the railway's overall carrying capacity.      Given pro-
jected sharp traffic increases and the backlog of required investment, sub-
stantial capital outlays are still necessary particularly for the expansion
of the port of Douala which will be assisted by a recently approved Bank
loan and IDA credit, and some related facilities such as a railway station
and marshalling yard to be built outside the port area. An engineering loan,
approved in May 1976, will help complete the engineering of this station and
marshalling yard.   Improvement of the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor will
also require substantial investment. A study, financed by the Bank and sched-
uled to be completed in FY77, will help determine an economically optimal
investment strategy for this corridor.     Future road investments will mainly
be for road maintenance and feeder roads to provide links to local markets
and facilitate exploitation of Cameroon's forests.       In other sectors,   the
Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project approved in 1975 focuses mainly
on developing local entrepreneurship.      A Third Education Project, approved
in April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education and -training.



- 6 -
18.        In all our projects we will include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies.    In addition, through our economic work we will
continue to advise the authorities, at their request, on development ques-
tions in general, and on particular matters such as economic management,
problems of urban migration, and manpower development.      To help achieve the
Government's priorities and to support our future lending strategy will re-
quire increased emphasis on strengthening the institutional framework, par-
ticularly concerning project planning, preparation, and implementation in
transportation and rural and urban development.     Requirements and provisions
for promoting these objectives are outlined in the description of the pro-
posed Technical Assistance Project in Part IV.
19.         During the second half of the sixties,, overall disbursements of
foreign aid to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year.      While at
the beginning of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the propor-
tion of loans slowly increased.   A major part of external assistance was pro-
vided by France and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive sectors.
The aid-giving agencies of the EEC (European Development Fund and European
Investment Bank) directed their lending mainly to agriculture, with infra-
structure in second place.    Bank Group disbursements were small during this
period.   From 1972 to 1974 overall disbursements of foreign aid increased
to about US$60 million with one-third as grants.      The Bank Group's share of
these inflows amounted to about 25 percent.    Our lending to Cameroon has been
closely coordinated with other donors; in eleven of our eighteen projects,
joint or parallel co-financing arrangements have been made.
20.        Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1974
amounted to US$295 million and is projected to reach US$1.5 billion in 1981.
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 4.5 per-
cent in 1975 and is projected to reach 9.5 percent in 1981.        At that time
disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 9 percent consisting of
grants.   At present, IBRD debt outstanding and disbursed amounts to about
13 percent of all public debt and 10 percent of public debt service. IDA
credits outstanding and disbursed amount to about 13 percent of public debt
outstanding and 0.1 percent of public debt service.          The Bank Group is
expected to account for about 25 percent of total public debt and 14 per-
cent of public debt service in 1980.
21.         In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.     IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a shoe manufacturing company that had previously been entirely
foreign-owned, was approved in May     1975.   In September 1976, IFC's Board
approved an equity investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber
estate (SAFACAM). The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and
diversifica tion of an existing estate by producing rubber for export and palm
oil for the home market.   The operation will also facilitate participation by
domestic shareholders.



-7-
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
22.       At a time when Cameroon has embarked on a course of raising the
productivity of small farm agriculture, shifting transport investments in-
creasingly towards rural roads and road maintenance, and of developing urban
centers, a strengthening of Cameroon's machinery for planning, preparing,
and implementing projects in these fields appears imperative. The proposed
project is designed to provide the additional key personnel, the project
preparation studies and the training of Cameroonian staff to support this
policy reorientation.
23.       In the past, the Cameroonian administration supported by techni-
cal assistance, largely from bilateral aid agencies, has made substantial
progress especially in providing the basic infrastructure and raising out-
put of agriculture and industry. France provided about two thirds of total
technical assistance. Other bilateral aid agencies, including those of the
USA, Canada and the Federal Republic of Germany, supplied one quarter and
the UN agencies accounted for the remainder. The bulk of this technical
assistance support has been concentrated in the education sector to train
the Cameroonian manpower necessary to manage the economy effectively.
24.       In recent years, technical assistance from Cameroon's traditional
bilateral donors has levelled off with the resources of many bilateral aid
agencies being largely absorbed by bulky infrastructure investments. Over-
all multilateral technical assistance disbursed to Cameroon has also de-
creased. UNDP's tentative commitments for the next planning period (1977-
1981) are about US$15 million, or the same level of its assistance that went
to Cameroon during 1972-1976, implying a sizeable decrease in real terms.
25.       The real decline in technical assistance to Cameroon coincides
with an administrative reform which has left a number of recently created
ministries without a full complement of experienced staff. Before the
United Republic was established in 1972, the Ministry of Economy was the
only economic ministry in the federal structure with the authority to plan
and coordinate all activities of the federated agencies. The ministry was
then able to perform these functions reasonably well through the work of a
number of well-trained Cameroonians and a small group of foreign advisers,
seconded to the ministry's service during the Second Development Plan
(1966-1971) from mostly bilateral sources. With the establishment of the
United Republic, a number of technical ministries were set up (e.g. Agricul-
ture, Equipment) which were assigned some of the Ministry of Economy's for-
mer responsibilities. These ministries, however, do not yet have enough
Cameroonian and foreign staff to carry out their new mandate. In addition,
competent Cameroonian staff and technical assistants originally assigned to
the technical ministries have subsequently been seconded to newly created
project authorities. This has left the Ministry of Economy and several other
ministries critically short of staff despite a marked increase in the number
of competent Cameroonian technicians.



- 8 -
26.       The real decline in technical assistance to Cameroon from tradi-
tional sources comes also at a time when Government is stepping up public
investment and adopting novel approaches to rural, infrastructure and urban
development. At the same time, Cameroon's past achievements, sound devel-
opment policies and regional importance have attracted a variety of impor-
tant capital donors who are eager to contribute to new style projects
within the framework of Cameroon's Fourth Development Plan (1977-1981),
many of which, however, do not have the capability of helping to prepare
such projects.
27.       Under the Fourth Plan, investment choices and policy decisions
have become complex in almost every sector and a major institution-building
effort will be necessary to implement the new investment policies. In
transport, for example, there is an urgent need to deal with issues such
as road/rail coordination, promotion of diversified rural feeder roads and
forestry roads and creation of an adequate maintenance organization. Even
more important is the need to expand investment in the rural sector. This
is not only true for the large plantation projects in the south, which re-
quire considerable planning, coordination and supervision by the central
authorities, but also for tree crop development/rehabilitation programs to
assist smallholders, a variety of small- and medium-scale irrigation projects
and other rurall-development projects in the north, the promotion of a live-
stock industry, and the formulation of adequate food crop development and
marketing policies. Finally, in the urban sector, more attention should
be directed to achieving an appropriate balance of infrastructure and pro-
ductive employment programs, and to a more systematic approach to urban
development.
28.       In this situation, the proposed project would bring in interna-
tional know-how in dealing with the above-mentioned complex policy issues
and the preparation of novel projects under the Fourth Plan. The experts
to be appointed under the project would play a catalytic role, particularly
in rural development, in maximizing the output of the already existing ex-
patriate and Cameroonian staff. In this connection, the internationally
recruited staff could draw on the experience gained on Bank-financed rural
development projects in other West African countries and help adapt success-
ful technologies to Cameroonian conditions. Other foreign aid agencies and
Governments recognize that the Bank Group can play a useful role in helping
strengthen Cameroon's absorptive capacity; and UNDP, the traditional sup-
plier of international expertise, has stated that it is unable to provide
financing for the technical assistance included in this project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The proposed project was identified by various recent Bank missions
to Cameroon and chiefly by the special economic missions which visited the
country in February and November 1975 to advise on the preparation of the
Fourth Plan (1977 - 1981). The project is based on a request made by the



-9-
Government in April 1976. Subsequent preparation was undertaken with the
assistance of Bank staff including the Bank Resident Representative in
Cameroon. The project was appraised in August 1976 and negotiations were
held in Washington from November 10 to November 15, 1976. The Cameroonian
delegation was led by His Excellency, Mr. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador of the
United Republic of Cameroon to Washington. A Credit and Project Summary
is in Annex III. Further information is in Annex IV. There is no separate
appraisal report for this project.
General Description
30.       The project would support a three-year program of technical assis-
tance aimed at strengthening and improving the operation of key Government.
services involved in investment and policy decisions and in the planning,
preparation and supervision of high priority projects. The proposed project
would also help finance studies aimed at developing a pipeline of projects
for financing by the Government, the Bank and other donors. Major emphasis
would be placed on expanding local project processing capability, on provid-
ing for close association between foreign experts and local staff, and on
arranging for the training of local personnel. In line with Government
priorities and the Bank's lending strategy, project activities would aim
principally at the rural sector, the transport sector, and areas such as
urbanization and water supply that have only very recently been given high
priority status and where a major institution-building effort will be neces:-
sary before the new priorities can be implemented on a large scale.
31.       The project would comprise:
(a) about 20 man/years of advisory support to
strengthen the services in the Ministries of
Economy and Planning (a transport economist),
Agriculture (an agricultural economist, a
general agriculturalist and a financial
analyst), Transport (a transport economist),
and the units in the Ministry of Equipment
and Housing and the Ministry of Mining and
Energy that are concerned with urban devel-
opment (an urban development expert, an
urban hydraulics engineer and short-term
consultants);
(b) about 130 man/months of short-term consul-
tant services for studies, in particular
(i) pre-investment and feasibility studies
leading to priority projects for financing,
and (ii) special studies related to project
or economic policy implementation in the
sectors on which project activities will
concentrate;



- 10 -
(c) provisions for additional local staff and for
equipment, vehicles, and operating costs
required to support the project;
(d) about 60 man/months of short-term consultant
services and other provisions for training
courses and activities relevant to the
upgrading of local personnel to be asso-
ciated with the project and to the devel-
opment of Cameroonian institutions concerned
with pre-investment and project work.
It is expected that the project would be implemented over the
three-year period 1977/78 - 1979/80.
Long-Term Advisory Services to Strengthen Institutions
1.   Assistance to the Ministry of Economy and Planning
32.       Notwithstanding a reduction of the Ministry of Economy and Plan-
ning's involvement in detailed project work, some strengthening of the min-
istry's fuhc-ttons will be required because of the shifting emphasis of
Government priorities and the increasing complexity of new investment
decisions. In the field of transport its capacity for coordinating its
own responsibilities with those of the technical ministries is weak. The
proposed project therefore includes financing for a senior transport econ-
omist to be seconded to the ministry during the three-year project period.
The transport economist will help ensure coordination and integration of
investment decisions in transport with closely related sectors such as agri-
culture and forestry. He will also help establish better coordination among
the ministries and agencies involved in planning and investment decisions in
the transport sector.
2.   Assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture
33.       The Government is aware of the inadequacy of the Ministry of Agri-
culture's capability in planning, project preparation and monitoring work as
well as the need to strengthen and improve the operation of its statistical
and data collection services. It has recently created within the ministry
a Directorate of Studies and Projects responsible for these activities. The
ministry, however, is critically short of staff and many of the personnel
available are in need of considerable training.
34.       The proposed project would therefore include financing for the
following technical assistance experts for the Directorate: (i) a senior
agricultural economist, (ii) an experienced general agriculturalist and
(iii) an experienced financial analyst. The senior agricultural economist
would be employed for three years and the other experts for about two and
a half years. The Government will supply the Directorate with sufficient



- 11 -
and suitable Cameroonian staff who will include two professional agricul-
turalists (charge d'etudes), one agronomist, one economist, one statistician
and one qualified accountant/ financial analyst. The French Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation is expected to continue to provide technical assistance experts
In agronomy and statistics. The local staff and the technical assistance
experts will function as a team, thereby insuring transfer of expertise to
the Cameroonians. Arrangements for further training of the local staff will
also be made under the project. In addition, financing for high-priority
agricultural project and sector issues studies will be provided under the
proposed project.
35.       The Directorate's organizational chart and responsibilities as
established by a decree of July 1, 1976 are shown in Annex IV. The propQsed
framework is satisfactory. The strengthened Directorate would give impetus
to the preparation of rural development projects-and help improve the supervi-
sion and support of ongoing projects. The Directorate will also be involved
in sector planning and related policy analysis. However, the emphasis during
the initial period should be on project work. In this regard, the Directorate
will be instrumental in identifying and formulating projects within the
framework of the project list included in the Fourth Plan (see Annex IV).
The team will also assess progress in the preparation of projects included
in that-.list and determine additional preparation work required. It would
assist in drafting terms of reference for the required studies, evaluate
consultants' proposals, negotiate contracts and supervise the studies during
their execution. A second area of concentration will be the supervision and
monitoring of ongoing projects and the provision of support to agricultural
project entities in the fields of organization, management and accountancy.
The Directorate will prepare yearly work programs for its activities which
would be submitted to the Association for comments (Section 4.03 (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The work program for the first year
(1977/1978) would be prepared no later than April 30, 1977, i.e. about one
month after the expected selection of the senior agricultural economist.
This internationally-recruited expert, in addition to his operational tasks,
would have the position of adviser to the Cameroonian Director of the Direc-
torate. He would in that capacity help prepare the above-mentioned yearly
work programs. It is proposed that one of the two Cameroonian professional
agriculturalists (charges d'etudes) be in charge of project work (identifica-
tion, preparation, appraisal, supervision) the second of statistics, surveys
and documentation. The Government has agreed to periodically review the
activities and operations of the Directorate in consultation with the As-
sociation (Section 4.03 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
3.   Reinforcing Transport Planning and Coordination
36.       The Ministry of Economy and Planning, the Ministry of Equipment
and Housing and the Ministry of Transport, which are all concerned in varying
degrees with planning and processing of transport projects, lack adequate
staff to deal with Cameroon's pressing transport needs. In particular,
efforts to ensure the integration of transport and other sectoral planning
(the Ministry of Economy and Planning's responsibility) coordination of
intra-sectoral studies, (the Ministry of Transport) and highway data col-
lection and analysis (the Uinistry of Equipment and Housing) have been very



- 12 -
limited. The Government is aware of these weaknesses and is taking steps
to correct them. It has requested the French consulting firm "Bureau Central
pour les Equipements d'Outremer" to provide three exparts for two years (one
transport economist and two engineers) to the Roads Department in the Ministry
of Equipment and Housing, to be financed with funds from Loan 935-CM and
Credit 429-CM for the ongoing Second Highway Project. The transport economist
will be in charge of supervising and coordinating the economic aspects of
road studies and organizing systematic collection of data such as road con-
struction and maintenance costs and number of vehicles. The two engineers
would have primary responsibility for highway construction and maintenance.
It is expected that the provision of these experts will greatly contribute
to strengthening the Roads Department which has had a rather uneven record
in project preparation and implementation.
37.       Additionally two transport economists will be financed under the
present project and assigned to the Ministry of Economy and Planning (see
para. 32) and the Ministry of Transport (see para. 38), respectively. The
Ministry of Transport, created in 1970, has overall resp-onsibility for policy
planning and coordination in the sector, and for screening transport projects
prepared by other ministries. The basic organization of the ministry is
appropriate,_but due to the shortage of qualified personnel, the planning
unit in the ministry has remained embryonic. As part of Government's ef-
forts to upgrade the organization and operation of the ministry, a new
organizational chart is under preparation and is expected to be approved
shortly.
38.       In addition to the efforts needed to improve its current sector
planning activities, the Ministry of Transport will also be responsible for
a potentially large volume of transport coordination and planning work gen-
erated by ongoing or planned studies (e.g., the Douala-Yaounde corridor,
forestry road development, the Kribi Master Plan), the development of
Cameroonian shipping capacity, and the possible evacuation of bauxite
from the Minim-Martap deposits. It is therefore proposed to provide for
three years under the Technical Assistance Project an experienced transport
economist to reinforce the ministry's planning unit, which already has two
Cameroonian technicians (one charge d'etudes and one economist); the Govern-
ment will also provide another Cameroonian transport economist. The tech-
nical assistance transport economist will play a major role in stimulating
and coordinating the work of the unit. The Government and the Association
have already informally agreed on a work program for this Unit during dis-
cussions of the Cameroon transport sector memorandum and negotiations for
recent transport projects.
4.   Strengthening planning and project processing capability
of the urban development institutions
39.       As previously indicated, the Government investment program and
our lending strategy in the years ahead will place greater emphasis on de-
veloping urban infrastructure and services specifically geared towards the
urban poor. Efforts will be concentrated on such high priority subsectors
as low-cost urban housing (sites and services), water supply and sewerage.



- 13 -
Preparation, implementation and management of projects in these subsectors
require time, effort and special expertise. In addition, past public in-
vestment in these subsectors has been limited, and most existing technical
agencies, the Department of Urbanism and Housing in the Ministry of Equipment
and Housing, the Department of Energy and Water in the Ministry of Mining
and Energy, and various municipal executing agencies lack qualified engineers,
construction supervisors, economists and administrators to increase invest-
ments in these fields. Furthermore, responsibility for urban development is
widely dispersed among a variety of agencies and coordination is inadequate.
40.       The proposed Technical Assistance Project will help promote priority
urban development action and strengthen the support services. Indeed, fast
results cannot be expected in such relatively new fields and the project will
chiefly aim at establishing the first phase of what is likely to become a
series of investment and institution-building programs that will expand grad-
ually over the years. The purpose of this component will be:
(i) to assist the Government in refining its urban develop-
ment policy and the related sectoral policies (land,
housing, transport, public services, property taxation
and municipal finance) and to translate these into actual
_Fp.rograms and projects;
(ii) to help in establishing, in the responsible ministries,
technical departments capable of monitoring the whole
project cycle from identification and preparation of
feasibility studies to supervising of studies and project
implementation. Provisions for the financing of feasibility
studies that would lead to repeater projects will also
be included.
(a) Assistance to the Directorate of Urbanism and Housing
in the Ministry of Mining and Energy
41.       The Directorate of Urbanism and Housing, which is the entity in
charge of housing and urban development, is understaffed. Under the pro-
posed project an urban development expert with broad-based experience in
housing program investment will be provided to the Directorate to supple-
ment six technical experts already being provided through bilateral pro-
grams. 1/ The Government for its part will recruit a Cameroonian economist
1/   France has provided a civil engineer, an architect and a surveyor to
design master plans for Douala and Yaounde, to define measures for
executing these Plans and to supervise execution. Germany has supplied
a surveyor and a city planner who work respectively in the north and in
the city of Victoria on the coast. Finally, Switzerland has furnished
an architect/planner to work on the renewal of the "Quartier Nylon" in
Douala.



- 14 -
and provide a Cameroonian experienced technician (charge d'etudes) to rein-
force local staff. The expert and the counterpart personnel jointly should
be able to cover a wide range of expertise in urban economics and pLannLng,
urban infrastructure and housing. Some complementary short-term consul-
tancies would be required for a few of these areas but the Directorate team
will at first draw as much as possible on resources available in other
services (e.g., the National Center for Assistance to the Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises, Community Development Service) or on information gathered
by field staff.
42.       The above team's principal tasks would be to:
(i) assist in updating and completing the housing policy
recommended to the Government in 1974 by a' special
committee on housing and urban development;
(ii) assist in translating this new policy into a series
of programs and/or projects to be implemented during
the 1977-1981 investment plan, in collaboration with
experts from the Ministry of Economy and Planning;
(iii) supervise closely the feasibility study of an urban
development project through which concepts, techniques
and solutions particularly relevant to the sector s
immediate problems could be developed and tested con-
cretely;
(iv) make proposals for special topics on which studies are
urgeatly needed and help select and supervise the con-
sultants required to carry out these studies.
43.       The team will work directly with and report to the Director of
Urbanism and Housing. The Urban development expert will have the position
of advisor to the Director and will assist in organizing, planning and over-
seeing the work of the team. He will help the Director prepare the progress
reports, budget, studies, and other proposals that will be required for
implementation and monitoring of the proposed activities.
(b) Assistance to the Directorate df Energy and Water
in the Ministry of Mining and Energy
44.       The Ministry of Mining and Energy has countrywide responsibility
for urban water supply. The Directorate of Energy and Water in this ministry
suffers from the same staffing deficiencies as the Directorate of Urbanism
and Housing. The same approach is therefore proposed, i.e. the Technical
Assistance Project will help establish a minimum team comprising a qulalified
and broadly experienced urban hydraulics (water supply/sewerage) engineer,
a Cameroonian experienced technician (charge d'etudes) and a Cameroonian
economist.   Similarly, this team will focus on the initial steps required for



- 15 -
improving planning, follow-up of general studies, project definition, and
supervision of subcontracted works and studies in the subsector; some of
these studies will be financed under the proposed project. The team's
activities will be organized along the same lines as in the Directorate
of Urbanism and Housing.
Short- and Medium-term Studies
45.       The proposed project would include provisions for about 130 man/
months of short- and medium-term consultancy services to help carry out high
priority policy and project studies mostly in agriculture and urban develop-
ment. These are described below and detailed in Annex IV. The proposed
studies are in varying stages of definition. For instance, studies pro-
posed for the urban development subsectors are well specified, whereas most
proposals for rural development studies are still tentative, and need to be
firmed up by the Ministry of Agriculture's Directorate of Studies and Projects
as strengthened under the project. Most of these studies would help prepare
projects suitable for early financing by the Bank Group and other donors.
Before a decision is made to use the IDA credit to finance these studies,
the possibility of obtaining financing from another national, bilateral or
multila7teral agency, especially UNDP would be explored and the Bank Resident
Representative in Cameroon will keep in close contact with these agencies in
the field.
1.   Agricultural studies
(a) Northern Region Development Program and Rural
Development Project
46.        About 36 man/months of consultant's services including specialists
in agriculture, agricultural economics, extension, infrastructure, and socio-
logy will be required to prepare a development program and subsequently a
rural development project for the Sahelian Northern and Central regions.
The Fourth Plan (1977 - 1981) stresses the promotion of rural development
activities in the regions which are densely populated but where development
efforts are still limited.
47.       The development strategy for these highly populated areas should
combine migration to the underpopulated south with productive and social
development of the existing population in the central region. Until the
recent droughts, the central region was Cameroon's main cotton producer,
but cotton production has dropped sharply since then. Considerable potential,
exists in groundnuts and bottomland rice, as has been proven on experimental
stations. Further, significant yield increases for sorghum could be achieved-
through improved seeds, better agricultural practices and animal traction.
A start has been made with the testing of these technical improvements at
the farm level by farmer training centers.
48.       A land-use plan for the region undertaken with the assistance
of USAID and FAC has been recently completed and is expected to provide a



- 16 -
basis for the preparation of the proposed development program. The Govern-
ment has expressed interest in obtaining Bank Group assistance for the pro-
posed Northern Rural Development Project.
(b) Miscellaneous Agricultural Studies
49.       These would include:   small-scale rural development studies to
be undertaken in association with the Directorate of Studies and Projects,
marketing studies, organization and management studies (e.g. a study and
evaluation of the organization of the rice sector--this study has already
been requested by the Government). Furthermore, the Bank Group has been
approached for a contribution to the Logone Basin study initiated by UNDP
and in need of additional financing. Funds from the proposed Technical
Assistance Project would be made available as required for this study.
The team of specialists to be provided to the Directorate of Studies and
Projects will prepare proposals for these studies. It has been tentatively
estimated that about 34 man/months of short-term-consultant services would
be required to carry them out.
2.   Urban Development studies
50.       The?rema[nder of the total provisions for studies and short-term
consultant services, about 60 man/months, would go for studies relating to
urban development. A combination of general studies and studies for prepara-
tion of specific projects is needed to implement activities envisaged by the
Government and the Bank Group in the urban subsectors. The basic studies
would be carried out by locally-based teams (including Cameroonian and expa-
triate staff provided under the proposed project or by bilateral and multi-
lateral aid agencies) and by short-term consultants, including management
specLalists, financial analysts, economists and technical experts. It is
expected that up to 20 man/months of specialLzed consultant services will be
required for these project preparation-oriented studies. The remaining 40
man/months of consultant time would be used to prepare feasibility studies
for a site and service and a sewerage project (see Annex IV for further
details).
Training
51.       In order to strengthen the project identification and preparation
capability of selected national staff so that future needs for technical
assLstance in this area are reduced, an important component of-the project
will be aimed at achieving Cameroonization in the project ministries through
a well planned and organized training program. The proposed program will be
designed to provide formal training in the financial and economic techniques
of project identification, design and evaluation, in addition to the informal
but very important on-the-job training of these counterparts by the individual
technical assistance experts assigned to the various ministries under the
project. For this purpose, the project will include provisions for up to 60
man/months of training consultant services with the objective of:



- 1 7 -
(a) preparing and conducting courses locally in economic
and financial analysis designed to provide nominated
Cameroonian counterparts with the basic skills required
in project identification, design and evaluation;
(b) involving as many Cameroonian EDI Fellows as possible
in the training programs and providing them with
pedagogical experience to enable them to instruct
future training courses as required after completion
of the project; and
(c) producing such training materials as may be required
to enable Cameroonian staff to conduct such courses
in the long-term.
52.       At least two complete sets of training programs will be imple-
mented by the consultant team, which will comprise planners, economists
and financial analysts experienced in the agriculture, transportation,
and urban development sectors. The consultants to be selected will have
had previous training experience in developing countries.
53.    _-Additional responsibilities of the training consultants will be
to (i) identify existing training facilities in Cameroon 1/ that could
supplement the training programs described above, and (ii) assist the
Government in setting up a suitable organization within the Ministry of
Economy and Planning capable of organizing and conducting future courses
after completion of the project.
54.       Terms of reference of the training consultants will be approved
by the Association. Training activities envisaged under the project would
be supported as required by the Bank's training advisors.
Project Organization and Execution
55.       Advisory consultants to be provided under the project will be
directly assigned to their respective institutions and units. For instance,
the experts to be provided to the Ministry of Agriculture will be assigned
to the Directorate of Studies and Projects and placed under its Director.
Each member of the team of Cameroonian technicians and expatriate experts
will be given clearly defined responsibilities and duties. A condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit would be the appointment of the Direc-
tor of the Directorate of Studies and Projects and the senior agricultural
1/   For example, the Center for Project Management in Douala, an affiliate
of the Geneva-based Pan African Institute for Development, a private
international organization.



- 18 -
economist  (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).         The
internationally-recruited transport economist for the Ministry of Transport,
the urban development expert for the Ministry of Equipment and Housing's
Directorate of Housing and Urbanism, and the hydraulics engineer for the
Ministry of Mining and Energy's Directorate of Energy and Water will be
directly assigned to these Directorates and work in team with the Cameroonian
technicians. They would however be advisors to the respective Directors and
assist in promoting and coordinating the work of the units to which they are
assigned.   The senior transport economist to be provided to the Ministry of
Economy and Planning will be integrated into the group of advisors (conseil-
lers techniques) already existing in the Ministry.
Coordination of Project Activities
56.        Responsibility for overall coordination of activities planned under
the project will be entrusted to the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Economy and Planning.   Because this coordination role is expected to involve
a considerable amount of work, the Secretary General will be assisted in this
responsibility by a project coordinator who will have direct access to the
Secretary General and will report to him.      The project coordinator will be
assisted by two part-time assistants, the first with an engineering and
economic background, the second with management and legal skills.
57.         The project coordinator and his team will help ensure timely and
proper implementation of planned activities by the various agencies, effec-
tive coordination between the agencies and ministries involved in the imple-
mentation of the project, appropriate channeling and use of Government and
IDA funds and provision of sufficient skilled Cameroonian staff and adequate
logistical and administrative support to the various technical teams.        The
coordinator and his team will act as liaison between the Government and the
Association on matters pertaining to the project and will oversee, with the
help of relevant services in the Ministry of Economy and Planning, prepara-
tion and screening of proposals for studies and training activities to be
financed under the project (see Annex IV for further details).
58.         Though he will play no direct role in the implementation of pro-
posed project operations, the functions of the project coordinator are vital
for the successful implementation of the project and attainment of its goals.
A suitable candidate for this position has already been selected by the
Government.   This candidate was present at negotiations and his appointment
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit-(Section 6.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procedures for the Use of the Credit
59.          Selection of the technical assistance experts would be made in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines; the qualifications of these experts
and the terms and conditions of their employment should be satisfactory to the
Association.   Proposals for studies to be financed under the credit would be
prepared by the institutions concerned and submitted through the project
coordinator for approval by the Association.     As he would be located in the
Ministry of Economy and Planning, the project coordinator would be in a
position to ensure that these proposals fit into Government priorities.



- 19 -
60.       In reviewing these proposals, the Association (with the help of the
Resident Representative in Cameroon) will also determine that no suitable
alternative bilateral or multilateral financing is available. Preparation
of terms of reference for these studies, selection of the consultants for the
studies, and contract arrangements will be the responsibility of the insti-
tutions concerned, and will be in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
Similar procedures will be followed in formulating proposals for training
that will be submitted for the Association's review.
61.       A "Regie d'avance" (a special budgetary account) will be estab-
lished within each of the institutions for the funding of proposed project
operations by the Government (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). This procedure will help avoid the often cumbersome
financing procedures associated with Government services as well as facili-
tate financial control of project operations.
Cost and Financing
62.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$6.2 million
(in 1976 prices, net of taxes) of which about 73 percent is estimated to
be foreign exchange:
US (000)
-    Salaries and allowances                                1,670
of advisory consultants
-    Short-term consultant services for studies             1,030
-    Incremental salaries and allowances of
local staff                                           330
-    Equipment and vehicles                                   240
-    Operating costs (incremental)                            850
-    Training (incl. consultant services)                     520
-    Unallocated 1/                                           560
-    Contingencies 2/                                       1,000
Total                                       6,200
1/   For items, chiefly consultancies, to be specified in the course of
project implementation.
2/   These include:   price and physica7l contingencies for local staff and
operating costs, and price contingencies for advisory consultants
and equipment/vehicles.



- 20 -
A cost per man/month of between US$7,000 and US$7,500 for advisory services
and of about US$8,000 for short-term consultant services has been assumed.
The latter figure has been derived from recent contracts for studies in
Cameroon and is in line with those observed in other countries in the region.
Adequate price contingencies (10 to 12 percent per annum compounded) have been
included for the costs of advisory consultants, equipment and vehicles and for
local staff and operating costs; physical contingencies (15 percent) have also
been included for local staff and operating costs. Details on cost estimates
are in Annex III. The proposed credit of US$4.5 million would finance about
73 percent of total project costs (net of taxes) equivalent to the estimated
foreign exchange component. The Government would finance the remainder.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       The selection of consultants would be in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. Vehicles and equipment would be procured through com-
petitive bidding advertised locally, because of the size and timing of
individual purchases. Grouping of orders would not be practical since
vehicles and equipment have to be purchased in small numbers by different
agencies and over a period of 2 years. The presence of local representatives
of foreign manufacturers, furthermore, would permit adequate service and
spare parts. AIl contracts for consultants' services would be subject to
prior approval of the Association.
64.       The credit would finance:   100 percent of total expenditures (net
of taxes) for the salaries and related allowances of advisory consultants;
90 percent of total expenditures for short-term consultants for studies
and training; 75 percent of total expenditures for equipment and vehicles
to be procured under the project, and 50 percent of the project's total
incremental operating expenditures. About US$0.8 million of funds from
the proposed credit would be left for contingencies-and for items, chiefly
consulting services, that would be specified in the course of project imple-
mentation. The cost of incremental salaries and allowances for local staff
will be entirely borne by the Government.
Benefits and Risks
65.       The major benefit of the proposed project would be the strengthen-
ing of the capabilities of the Cameroonian agencies in formulating and im-
plementing an effective and well-planned investment policy and development
program. The proposed project will help enhance the project preparation,
implementation and supervision capability of the technical ministries, and
help develop an expanded pipeline of projects suitable for financing. How-
ever the substantial benefits of the project cannot be quantified in a
meaningful fashion.



- 21 -
66.       Risk in project implementation would arise mainly from (i) the
possible delays in recruiting consultants and appointing Cameroonian tech-
nicians; and (ii) the quality of these personnel. To minimize risk it has
been proposed to entrust overall responsibility of coordination of project
operations to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Economy and Planning
and to provide for a project coordinator to help him effectively carry out
this function (para. 56). The project coordinator designated was present at
negotiations and his final appointment would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit, as would be the appointment of the Director of the
Directorate of Studies and Projects of the Ministry of Agriculture and of the
expatriate senior agricultural economist to be located in this Directorate.
In addition, all contracts for consultant services would be subject to the
approval of the Association. The above-mentioned risks are therefore con-
sidered manageable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Cameroon and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
in Article--V-r Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development
Credit Agreement follows the form previously used for this type of project.
68.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 35, 55, 58 and 61 of this report.
The additional conditions of effectiveness of the Development Credit are
that the Director of the Directorate of Studies and Projects in the Ministry
of Agriculture, the senior agricultural economist to be located in this
Directorate, and the project coordinator to be located in the Ministry of
Economy and Planning shall have been appointed (Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 8, 1976






ANN~,EX I
TABLE 3A                                                 PageI o l   pages
CAMEROON               - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LANC AREA IT'HCU K012)                    -----------
-----~~-                                           CAMEROON                                 REFERENCE COUNTRIES I 19701
TO~TALl      '71,.4                                           POST RECENT
ALRI.  156.0                         1960        1970    ESTIMATE             GHANA            IVORY COAST     MALAYSIA
CN4P DER Cap[ITO l)S$                           90.0        19 0.0        270.0               340.0        340.0         440.0
Pfl-JLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Pn?'JL AT ION I IU-YR ,MILLI ON)                .1.L        6.6          7.3                  8.6          5. 4         10.4
PCPUJLATICN OENSIlTY
P-4SUA'      KM.                            11 .0        11L.0        15.0                 36.0          16.0        3 2. 0
P'R SC. Km. AGRICULTURAL LAND                            I 2 .          *.          ~       2 .          30.0       29 1.0
V ITAL STOIISTICS
TRUDIE 6!-TI- '-&T- PEP THOUSAND           4 3. 9       4 2.1         1.0.1                4 9.8        46 .1        4 2 .2
CAUCE OFATH 5ATF P5K     THOUSAND           28.0         23.q         22.0                 2 4. 4       23. 3        1 2.9
INFANT -UAI.'LITY RATE (/THnU)              L..                     42.0 /a              156.0            ..40. 8          /a
t IFE SYPECT4NCY AT b11TH 1Y9S1            35.9         41.0         41.0                  41.5         41.0         56.7
(C,4CSS -1r5ROCUC lI2jj  A0T                2 .3 /a       2 .7         2. 7                 3. 2         3. 1          2.6 
POIDULATICN, GRO,TH RATE IS4)
TOTAL                                       2. 4          2. 0        2. 0                  2. 6         3 .4 /a      2.
URAiAN                                        *.6.1 I                   .5                  5.0          8. 7 ~Lb      . 6
UPBAN POPULATION I I OF TnTAL)                11..9 /b     20.3         2 6. 3               29.0         28.0          2 7.8
AGE STRLUCTURE (PEPCENTJ
0 To 14 YEAr-S                            40.0         43. 0           ..46.9                          42 .5        44. 7 /a
15 '0 64 YEARS                             56. 0        54. 0           .4 9. 5                         54..8 
65 YEARS ANC OVER                           4.0          3.0            ..3.6                            2.7 
AGE DRPENC-ENCY RATIO                         0.8a          0.9           I. .0                             0.8          0.9 /
ECONOMIC CEPENDENCY RATIO                      1.0 a1.2                    .1. 4                            0.9 /c       1.867
FAMILY PLANNING
AiCCEPTOPS (CUMULATIVE, THOCU)                ...                                          10. 9           .        22 2.2 
USERS IS OF MARIERD1 WOMEN)                   ....                                          2.0           .           8.0  aj
EMPLOYMENT
TCTAL LAOCR FORCE tTHOUSAND)               2400.0       2800.0            ..3300.0                      2600.0       2900.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE       (%I          88.0         82.0           ..54.0                          82.0         430
UNEMPLOIYEO (2 OF LAORD FOIRCE)                 ...                        .5.0                            60.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME BEC-D BY-
HIGHEST    51 OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ...                        ..                                .28.3
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                     .            ..                                 ...                    56 .0
LOWEST    201 OF HCUSEHOLOS                    ..                        ....                                         3.5
LOwEST    401 OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .            ..                                 ..                     11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
S OWNED BY TOP 101 OP OWNERS.                                ...
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERkS                 .             .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATICN PER PHYSICIAN                  33750 .0 A    29330.0      30520.0 /b           12 95 0.0C /b  12140.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              5600.0        270.O /a     26.0.0               17.           400I         000/
PCOULAT ICN PER HOPTL         E4o .0 o               -    550.0           ..760.0                        680.0 7d     270:0 E.
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALCR IES 13 OF REQUIREMENTS)              96.0         98.0        104.0                  96.0a       108.0         93. 
PROTEIN IGPAMS PER CAY)                    59.0         59.0         64.0 ~446.0                        60.0         49.0
-OF WAHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                ..         23.0 A         .                   1 0.0 As     18.0 /e      20. 0 /ad
DEATH RATE I/HOU) AGES 1-4                      ...                        ..                                .5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENRCLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                             66.0        108.0        107.                   58.0 7. 6.D8.
SECONDARY SCHOOL                            20.         9.0         II:1.                  9.0         110 LL*      394.0/
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   14. 0 Iaf    14.OLj/      14.0 If               15.3         13.0         1 3.0  /a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IS OF SECONOARY)                           23. 0        22. 0        22.0  Li23.0                        7.0          304
ADULT LITERACY RATE      Sit                    .         1.0O.                              25.0         20.0770I
HOUS INS
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                      ...                        ..                                .2.3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER IS)                              ...                        ..                                 .65.0 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Il OF ALL DWELLINGS I.                                     ..                                 ..                    43.0
RURAL DWoELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY it)                           ...                        ...                                          30 .0
CONSUMOPTI ON
RADIO RECEIVERtS [PER THOU POP)                3.0         36. 0       36.0                  7 8.0        17 .0        4 1.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER TH4OU POP)                3.0           6.0          6.0 /a               4.0         10.0         23.0 /a
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PEP CAP)                 190.0       2 01. 0          ..33 8.0                       120.0        3   0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                        ....                                         0.4          0.2        38:0
K,EE NOTES AND CEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANN1SEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Unl1.. Otharoiaa soted, d.t. for 1960 r.fer to -sy year bqrs.. 1959 and 1961, for 1970 benessa        1968 .nd 1970, sad for Moot Recent Estinate between
19 73 and 1975.
m Maaiah.. been selected as the only mo-OPEC of a si.e simlar to C-roon, ohich, andowed with a div-rsified tropical production              reSches the
CDP Per capita target (US $400 to 600).
CAMEROON         1960    IaWest Canrcon ;        /b  1962:    /n   Including midolve:, aai.tant midwive     and ..vistant nurses;      /d  Govesooet hoaitals,
rura  hospitals and sedlal cen ters;      /a   12-18 years of age,     /f   13 years for fast Ca-r-n
1970    /aIncluding midwieo and aaeistant m.ora.;          lb   1964-66;    /n   12-18 years of age;      /d  13 years for foot Caneroon.
MOST RECENIT ESTIMlATE:   /s  1972;    /b   1971,    Ic   Including assistant noss         /d 1969-71aerg;         /   12-18 years of age,
If 13 years for East lassroom.
GHAN4A           1970    /aRegistered unemployed;        /b   Registered, nor all practicing in the country.       Ic  1966-68;     /d  6-i5 and 16-21 years
of age respecti-aly.
IvoRy CONST      1970    /aDue to imigr.tion, population growth rate Is higher than the rate of natural iccreaee              /b   1965-70.    _/c  Ratio of
population under IS and 65 and over to total labor force;        I   Government only;      /e  1964-66;     If  12-19 years of age.
-.AL YSI!A       1970    Ia   let Mal1aySia;     /b  Registered applicamts for work,      /c  Goveomet Only;        /d  1964-66,     /e  12-18 ycors of age;
/f 1967; /A Inside Only..
R3, Noveber 30, 1976
DUtgp Tnx OF SOCIAL I0ICATOES
Land Area (thou  I.                                                                       Population per nursing person - Population divided by number af practicic
Total -Total surface area comprising land area and inland      Sc.r.c.                      male and fee,ale graduate nurcse., tr-ined" or "certified" nurses, . ad
Agi.-Mont recen.t .stimate of agricultural   rar   used temporarily or per-            owniliary personnel with training or e.perience.
manently for crospn, pstures. market 4 kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital
GOP Per capit. (uS$1 - GNP par capita estimates at current market pr-c..                     beds availoble in public cod pri-ute general and ,peci.li.cd hospital
calculated by sam   conersio     ethod as World Rank Atlas (1973<75 basis),                and rehabilitation centers, excludes nursing ho-. and establielmients
1960. 1970 and 1975 data,                                                                  for custodial and preventive care.
Per capita supply of caoresf       of requirments) - Computed iron
Population and vital start-sis                                                               energy equivalent of nat fond supplies available in country Per
FPpul.tion foid-,r. m-ll1o) - Ac oi July first:      if not available, avrage                capita per day; available supplicu comprise don-stic production, import
of two end-year etmts        1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                     less ..rportc, aund changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed.
seeds, quantities used In fond proceusing and loses. in distribution.
Population dessity - Der square )oo - Mid-year population per square kilo-                   requiremoents were estimtated by PAO based on physiological needs for
mater 1100 hectaras) of total area.                                                        nor,nal activity and health considering   -nircaonstal temperature, body
P ... Itli- densi-y - var ....are k. of octi0. Land - Conputed a   above for                 ,eight., age and sex distributions of populatioc. and allowing 107. for
agiuluallnd ocv-I                                                                   waste at houshold 1-eol.
Per capita supply of pot.cin foran    per day) - Prs re-   -oset c o  per
Vlital Statistics                                                                            capita net supply of fond per day, net supply of fond is defined a-
Crude birth rate Per thousa.nd - Aon.a.   Ive- births per thousand of mid-year               above, requ~irements for all countries established by RESDA fcononic
population. ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1q70, and five-                Research Serviqes provide for a    ilniun allowance of 60 grins.  of total
ye-r o-rage ending in 1975 icr coa t re..ent estImate,                                     protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protnin. of uhich
Crde deat.h race per thvu-ncd - So-cl deatho per thousand of mid-year                       10 g-ms   should be animal protein , chas   standards are lovr than
Ppoplit-on   ten-year aritinsecc aegsending in 1960 and 1970 and                           th..e of 75 gram   of total protein and 73 grem    of animal protein aa
fite-year avrage ending in 1975 for most recent esti.ete.                                 an average for the .orld, proposed by FAO iA the Third World fond
Infat sotal r.-ac  f/thou) - AnnualI deaths of infants under one yeor of                S.vv
ace  er cm,s.nd  ice hi-rha                                                         Per capita protein supply from anima I000 pulse - Proneio supply of
LIfe eZnctaua     c brth fvs)     -Avrage nubar of years of life remining                    fond derived from animal   and pulses in gram    per day.
at birth, usually fivs-year averges ending is 1960. 1970 a-d 197$ for                   Deoth rats (/th.ul ames 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in aga group I-Is
developing countries                                                                      years. to children in thia age group, suggested as an indicator of
Gross reproduction rate - Averags eunber of live daughters a woman will                      malntrition.
hear in her nurl reproductIve period if shs experiences pr.....t age-
specific fertility rates, usually fiv-y-a averages ending In 1960.                      Education
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                                 Adjusted enrotllmet ratio - primar    school - Unroilment of all ages a
copulation growth rate (7.) -Itota   - Compound annual grouth rates of old-                 percen.tage of primary school-age population . includes children aged
year   ouato     for 1950-dO. 16-70 and 1970-75.                                          6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary eduostie..
Population growth rate (7)-urban - Computed Like growth rate of total                       for countries 'ith universal education, enrollment may emceed 1007.
populatIon, different definitinn    of urban areas may affect Copers-                     since some pupils are beLow or above the official school age.
bility of data -amog comatries.                                                         Adjusted enrollment ratio - setandsr    uhool- Computed as babve,
Urban Population (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total pupulotion, diff.-                 Secondary education requ Ires   tlec     four years cf approved prinary
ret definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data among                     Instruction, pridea gene ral,     oatoa      or teacher training
noucie.                                                                                    nsructions for pupils of 12 t. 17 years of age, correspondence
A&e structure (percent) - Children (0-14 ..ears), working-age (13-64yer)cossaegnrlyexud.
and retired (65 yea.rs ond over) aa percentoges of nid-year population                  Years of sxhoaling aroided (firat and second levels) - Total years of
Age dependency ratio - URatio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                     schooling, at ee....dary level, vocational Instruction may be partially
those of ages IS through 64.                                                              or completely excluded.
Economcc devendeucy ratio - Rt.to of population under IS ned 65 and over                  Vocational enrollment (7. of seconary.) - Vocstional Institutions
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.                                           include technicl,industrial or other progrea,n      hich operate lode-
foo.   Planin    - acceptors (c nulti-e. thou) - Cumultive number of                        pendently or !Casde.parcments of secondary institutioms.
caccptors of birth-control devicec uder ausPices of natIoarl fondly                     Adult litrs    rate (7.) - Literate adults (able to read and u-it.) as
planning program  uince inception.                                                        percentage of total adult pcpulation aged 1$ years and over.
Family planning - coers (7. of maried -omn) - Percentages or m,arried
womn of child-bearing age (15-44. yearn) who use birth-cotol1 devices                   Hous ing
to all married wove   in eassa age group.                                               Persona Per room (average) - Average number of persona per room     in
occupied conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude son-
E.npl.smet                                                                                  Permnent structures and unoccupied parts.
Total labor force (thousand) - Econonica11y active per-oA., intluding                     OcPied dw,ell ing  without piped water (7.5 - Occupieg ocoventiomel
armd forces and uneployed but occluding housewives, student S, e tc.,                     dwelflings in urb-anand rural areas without inside or outside piped
definitions in vrious countie. are not Comparable.                                       water facilities as percentage Of all occupied dwellings.
L.abor fcrce in agriculture (7.) - Ag ricul1tural labor forte (in forming,                Access to electricity (7 of all dwellings) - Convetional dwellings wdth
forestry, hunting and fishing) as Percentage of total labor force,                       electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings is urbaa
I'nloa   CofLabor force) - U.nesplaved are usually defined as persona                 and rural areas.
wh  ore able  nd "illing to take a job, out of a job on a diver day.                  Rural dwellings connected to electricIty (7.) - Computed as babve for
remained out of a job, and seekicg w-rk for a specified miiniu      period                rural d-ellinge only.
so tfesceedingione week. may not be comparable betwee coutries du. to
differen tdef initions of unemployed and source of data, e.g. , employ-                 Consumption
ment office statiotics. -apla survey, cmpulsory u-eplcomnt insurance.                   Radio receivers fotr thou pop) - All types of rece.ivers for radis broad-
coats to general publIc pot thousand of population, ancludes unlicensed
tncoc -distrIbutIon - Percentage of private income (both in cash and hind)                  receivers in countries and is years whe. regictretiom    of radio Seats vsa
rece ived by richest 57.. richest 207.. poorest 207X. and poorest 407. of                 Is effect; date for recent years may not he comparable since meat
househoIds.                                                                               countries aboliahed licen ing.
$istlbuton  f lad owersip -Perentaes o  lad owed  y welthiet      assegercars (per thou pon) - Passenger care cumprise mcar cars seating
Disribtio_    of__d__r_hp_-Pecenage_ofl____ed____I_h_.                                      less them eight persona; excludea    mbulances, herses and mIlItary
107. and poorear 107. of Land onr.vhcla
I                                                                  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lectricity (kwh/yr per cad  - sAnsual coatanpti-a of Industrial, cc~no-
,ieslth and 94utrition                                                                      cial. public and private electricity IA klilowatt hours per capita,
Population per physician - Population divided by nu=ber of practicIng                       gene.rally based on, production data, without allwance for losses in
phscasqualIfied from a   edical school at university level,                         grids but allowing for inport. and eSports of electricity.
Ne-sprint (ho/yr er cap) - Per capit.a snma1 consumption iA kilograns
estimated from domee.tic prodootion plus net imports cf -ewprio.t



ANNEX I
0O1r0K   D5VWPMENT DATA                                                Page 3 of 4 pages
(AmouAtsin mllions of U.S. dollars
Actual                         Proieced              1967. -  19 72 - 1974   -   1 976 -       67   194      18
1967      1972    -1974                    'o      1-        1972    1974     1976       1981      !      197      198
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
~-Yesr Average at It7~ i~        rces & Exchange Rates         Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of OD0Y
Gross Domestic Product              799.4  1109.9     11955       1266.1     1363.8    179.8         6.8    3. 8    6.8     5.7      101.2    104.0     103.6
.,ains from Terms of Trade (.         9.5    21,     -  46.0     -38.2      -41.2    - 62.9..                                .      -   1.2  - 4.0     -  3. 6
Gross Domestic Income               789. 9 1088.5     1149.5      1237.9     1322.6    1 73 5.9      6.6    2.8     7. 3    5.6      100.0    1000      100.0 
Import (imcl. 14)S)                 234.0   325.0      344.5       364.3      387, 4    516 .6       6.8    3.0     6.0     5. 9      29.6     30.0      29.8
Exports       (import capacity)     2 13. 2 290.6      328.4       325.0      336 . 1   469.0        6.4    6.3     1.2     6.9        27.0    28.6      27.0
Resource Gap                         I078        n                  39.j       3t1       T77        10.6  -46.2    78.5    -1.5      -77       -r T2. 8
Oonsumption Expenditures            682.1   95 1 .2   1013.7      1084.0     1145.2    1445.6        6.9     3. 2   6.3     4.8        86 4    88.2      83.3
Investment    '  (incl. stocks)    128.7    171.7      169.2       183.2     220.1     3 37. 7       5.9  -   .1   14.0     8.9        16.3    14.7      19.4
Domestic Savinigs                   107.8   137.4      153.0       143.9      170.7    290.2         5.0     5 .5   5 6    11.2        13.6     1 3 3    16.7
Naticnal. Savings                    87.9   114.0      102.7       110.0      151.2     249.8        5     - 5.4   21.3    10.6        11.1      8.9      1_.4
IMERCHA2(DISE TRADE                           Aznnual. Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                      40.8    89.1      104.3       143.2      177.5    444.4        16.9     8.2   30.4    2 0 2       2 1 7   2 3. 9    3 5. 4
Intermediate goods (~mlfuels)     87 3    133.6      198.3       254.3      2 97. 6  533. 7        8.9   21.8    22.5    12.4       46.4     4 5. 5    4 2 5
~tels and related materials         8.3    15.2       38.3        52.3       61.8    109.8        12.9   58.7    27.0    12.2         4.4     8,8       6 7
of wbd.ch:  Petroleum             8.3    15.2       38.3        52.3       61.8    109.8        12.9   58.7    2 7 .0  12.2        4.4      8 8       8 .7
Consussptio n goods                51 6    64.9       95.0       112.7      1 28. 9   169.3       12.2   21.0    16 5     5 6        27 !    21.8      13.5
Total Merch. Thorts (cif)         tT997   307.T      07379         T%       E3       157          100    2.      2.6      3.        1         D0 
Exports
Primar-y products (w:l. fuels)    143.7   199.9      446.7       398.1      461.0    885.8         6 .   50.0     1.6    14.0        90.8    9 3 5     86.8
Fuels and related materials         -        -         -           -          - 
of whsich:  Petroleum             -       -          -           -          -                     .       .      .   .
manu.fsctured goods                14.6    20.9       311.        53.9       68.3     134.5        7.4   22.0    48.2    14.5         9.2        5     1 32
Total Merch. Zxorts (fob)        TT7 71              E7           57"     .TP1=     t7070T         6.9   47.1     5 2    14.0       r=D     ED0t       O=
Tourism and Border, Trane                    .          ..
Merchandise Trade Indices          -Average 1967-69                100
Exrport Price Index                94.0   114.1      172.1       189.2      2 12. 6  303.0         4.0   22.8    11.1     7.3
Import Price Index                94.8    1 27. 6    186.0      218.0      239.3 .   343.7        6.1    2 0. 7  13.4    7. 5
Terms of Trade Index               99.1    89.-       92. 5       86.8       88.9     88.2        -2.1    1.7   - 2.0   -   2
Exports Volume Index               94.0   1 23. 8    163.9       147.0      164.0    229.0         5.7   15.1            6 .9
.ALU.E A.DDED BY SECTOR            Annual. Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates              Average Annual. Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      2 72.2   3 352. 1   380.1      417.5      432.8     540.7        5.3     2. 9    6 .7   4.6        38. 5    37.4,     34 4
Industry and Mining              170.9    233.2      230.8      258.8      2 71. 8   3 71 .2      6.4    - .1    8.5     6.4        24.2     2 2 .7   23.6
Serv-ice                         26.      401.6     40.         460Q.5.    488.1     658.3        8.7      .1    9. 7    6 ,2       37.4     39.9     41.9
Total.                            707.4   986.9     1016.3     1136.8     1192.7    1570.2        6.9     1.5    8.3     5.6       100.0o   100 0    100.0
'PUBLIC FNCEAs Percent of GDP
'Cental Doverznment) (in ClAF billion)
Current Receipts                  31.9      56.6      68.4        79.6     103.8     201.1       12.2     9.9   23. 2   14.1        16 4     16.4      17.0
Cuxrrent Excpenditures            32 1      46.6     60.9        71.6      9.9..~..  165.9        7 .7   14.3   24 2    12.1        16 3    14.6      14 0
Busdgetary Savings-                 .2      10.0       7.5        8.0        9.9      3 5. 2    152.7  -15.5    14.9    28. 9      .. 
Other Public Sector Savings  4.6   ~~~1.0  13.4       10.9       12.5      19.8       3 5. 7266.1   -3 3.5    9 6         2.4     3. 2      1 7
Public Sector investment          13.5      27.5     43.4        44.2       49.9     124. 7      15.3   2 5 6    7 .2   20 1         6.9    10 4      t0 6
4,'S $ millIion
*:IRRENlT EXPENDITUJRE DETAILS                 Actual.       Prelims.   Est.     Plrod.       DETAIL ON                               At L974-1975 P and ED
5.s % Total Current Expend.)             1967     1972      19 74     19 75    1976'        PUBLIC SECTOR          i/ rd Plan                    of Total2
Education                               1 4.4-   17.1      1~6.9     177. 1   17.4          Il4VESTME  P ROGRAM                  (1971 ,'72 -19 75 / 76)
Other Social Services                     .7     10.7       9. 7     10.0     10.3          Social Sectors                         247 6               26 6
Agriculture                              5.0      5.6        5.9      6.1      6.6          Agriculture                             167.5             -L8.0
)ther Economic Services                 11.6      8. 7      11.2     12.3     13.5          Industry and Mdining                    14.0                L.5
Administration and Defense              59.5     45.3       42.6     41.8     40.3          Power                                    56.8               6.1
Other                                    8.8     12.6       13.7     12.7     12.1          Transport end communications            38 7 2             '41.6
Total Current Excpenditures (in         31       466        09       716      -             Other                                --57,7                 6 2
CFAF billion)                        32To6.t6.a7.6                         939Expenditures                                       930.8             100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960 -    1967-     1972-    19 77-       FINANCING 
-alculated from 3-year averaged data)             1965      1971       1976    1981                                     2/
Average ICOR                                                 -T. 2      4-        3.1            Public Seccor Savings -              351.8       ~       37.8
Import Elasticity                                   ..          .968      .789    1.010          Local Borrowing                      55.8                6.0
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                       .          .023      .239     .289          Foreign Financing                   5 23 .2             56.2
Marginal National Savings Rate                       ..         .137       .151    .239          Total Financing                     930.8              100.0
1.AmR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worke    (19 67- 69   Prices &Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PE  WORKER                                      % of Total           196 7 - 71        In UJ.S.Dolla,rs     Percent of  verage         19 6/- 71
~2 67       1.9 71   19 67      19 71    Growrth Rate         1967       1971        19 67     19 71      Grow-th Rate
3/
Agricultuire -22,200                      31,700      18.5       19 7          9,3          4,585.6   4.186.1        118.9      10 7 7        - 2,6
1ndust7                      29,210      41,360      24.3       25 7          9.1          1,064.7    1,090.4        2 7 6      28 1
2 7,3 28    34.427      22.7       21.4          6.0          5,027.8    5,420.4       130 3     1 39 5           1.9
Go ermienr                    41,494      53,486      34. 7      33.2          6.5          4,752.5    4,848.0       123 2      127.4
Thtal                 12~~~~~~~~~0-6232  1760,9732 oo 100.0  1T                    -3787T7    -3,886.27      TO07       Ti-To             .2
not applicable         - iil or negligible               I/ Estimated actual disbursements             4/   Excluding governnmenc
not ava.olable        .  less than hal1f the             21 Net of debt service
smallest uLnit shown            3/ Modern sector osly



Annex I
Page 4 of 4 pages
CAIAROON
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, ESTE1!AL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT PROJECTIONS
7amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Average Annual
Actual        Estimated                 Projected                   Growth Rate
1971   1972    1973   1974   1975   L976    1977   197o   1979     l      1975 - 1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                 309     340    533    693    648     766    937   1095    1228   1358        16.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                 357     425    5      657    791     943   1071   1217    1382   156        14.6
Resource Balance (X-M)                     _48 --   13    -i    _3-X    -177   -133   -122    -155   -207         7.7
Interest (net)                      - 5.5   - 6    -11    -16   - 17    - 21   - 34   - 42    - 49   - 59       28.3
Direct Investment Income            - 1.7   - 2    - 4.5  - 7.7 -  8    -  8   - 11   - 15    - 21   - 28       28.5
Workers'Remittance                  -17.0   -21    -24    -33   - 34    - 39   - 45   - 52    - 59   - 68        14.9
Current Transfers (net)              15.5    15     11     20     24      30    _5       38     41     44        12.9
Balance on Current Accounts         -52                    - O   - _T          -      -       -24    - X        12.4
Private Direct Investment            12     -25.6    4.6  -13.3 -  4      18     22     27      31     36      109.1
Official Capital Grants               7       6.8    7.2   13     24      26     28      31     34     37         9.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      28      72.4   51.5   60     78     u8     150    191     253    317       32.4
-Repayments                       -8     - 8.8   -12.4  -16   -18     -18    -24    - 32   -40     -60        27.2
Net Disbursements                    20     73.6    39.1          7 5    101     5     159     213    257        33.8
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                       .       .      .      .       .      .      .       .
-Repayments                          .      .      .     _        .      .      .       .
Net Disbursements   -  - _             .      .      .      .       .      .      .       .
Capital Transactions n.e.1.           2      11.8  -18.7  -44
Change in Net Reserves               11      42.6  -15.9    0
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Actual         Estima ed
Official Grants   Grant-like         25.8    24.0   25.2   24.0                                         1970   1971  1972  1973     1974
Public M&LT Loans                                                         DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
IBRD                                -       -     25.7   34.1           Public Debt Outs.&Disbursed   130.3 159.8 194.5 .39.9    29'.1
IDA                                 1.5    12.7   24.0    -
Other Multilateral                   3.5     .6   19.3    -               Interest on Public Debt       4.5   5.7    6.5   9.9    1 .3
Repayments on Public Debt     4.5    7.5   9.1  15.7     19.7
Governments                         8.2    24.6   81.1   47.1             Total Public Debt Service     9.0  15.2   15.6  2'.6     32.0
Suppliers                           3.4     4.7     .6   16.8             Other Debt Service (net)     ..    ..
Financial Institutions              -      15.6    -     22.0             Total Debt Service (net)     ..    ..
Bonds                               --     --      --    14.8
Public Loans n.e.i.                 -       -      -     ..             Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Total Public M&LT Loans              IC7   T5.4    150.7  TZ.6
Public Debt Service           3.2    4.3   4.6   4.      A4.6
Total Debt Service            ..    ..
Actual Debt Oustanding on     TDS + Direct Invest.Inc.      ..    ..
Dec. 31, 1974
EXTERNAL DEBT                                     Disb. Only      Percent   Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                        26.8           9.1        Int. as % Prior Year DO&D     4.2   4.4    4.9   5.1     5.1
IDA                                               31.3          10.6        Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D   4.2    5.8   5.7   R.1     8.2
Other Multilateral                                38.0          16.9
Governments                                      153.8          52.1      IBRD Debt Out.  Disbursed       3.4   7.7  13.8   23.1    26.8
Suppliers                                          8.5           2.9           as % Public Debt O&D       2.6   4.8   7.1    9.6     9.1
Financial Institutions                            36.6          12.4           as % Public Debt Service   -     4.0    6.7   5.4     6.7
Bonds
Public Debts n.e.i.                                              -        IDA  Debt Out.  Disbursed       8.9  11.0  18.4   30.1    31.3
Total Public M&LT Debt                           295.1         100.0           as % Public Debt O&D       6.8   6.9   9.5   12.6    10.6
as % Public Debt Service   -      -    0.1    0.1     0.1
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                           e   staff estimates
not available                             -  nil or neg1igible
...  not available separately                --  less than half the
but included in total                        smAllest unit shown



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BA1TK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1976)
US$ Million
Amount
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                             Undis-
Number      Year    Borrower    Purpose                   Bank    TW      IDA 3/   bursed
Four Credits and six Loans have been fully
disbursed                                              39.7            24.2
161-CM     1969    Cameroon     Education                               11.7 1/      0.4
320-CM     1972    Cameroon    Education II                              9.0        7.1
429-CM     1973    Cameroon    Roads II                                 24.0        0.1
429 1 CM   1976    Cameroon    Roads II                                 15.0       14.4
935-CM    _1973    Cameroon    Roads II                 24.0                       24.0
983-CM     1974    Cameroon    Livestock                11.6                        7.7
1038-CM     1974    REGIFERCAM   Railways                16.0                        1.9
1039-CM     1974    Cameroon     Cocoa                    6.5                         4.9
574-CM     1975    HEVECAM     Niete Rubber Project                     16.0       14.5
575-CM     1975    Cameroon    DFC - Small Scale En-
terprises                               3.0        3.0
S4-CM     1976    REGIFERCAM  Railways                  2.3                        2.3
1245T-CM    1976    Cameroon    Education III                   17.0.?              17.0
657-CM     1976    Cameroon    Second Douala Port                       10.02/     10.0
1321-CM     1976    Cameroon    Second Douala Port       15.0Q2/                    15.0
TOTAL                               115.1   17.0    112.9      124.3
of which has been repaid           1.1    0.0      0.0
TOTAL now outstanding               114.0   17.0    112.9
Amount sold                   0.2
of which has been repaid           0.2
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA S    113.8   17.0    112.9
TOTAL undisbursed                    57.8   17.0     49.5     ;124.3
B.  Statement of IFC Investments
311-CM     1975    BATA        Equity Investment
in Shoe Factory        0.4
1/ Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
2/ Not yet effective
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1           First Education Project:   US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
(Original Closing Date: June 30, 1974; First
Postponement December 31, 1975) and US$1.2 million
Supplementary Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective-
ness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
The implementation of this project was slow, especially in the ini-
tial years. This resulted from delays in (i) selecting the consultants,
(ii) reaching agreement on schedules of accommodation, (iii) revising the
bidding documents, (iv) starting construction work for which overpriced
initial bids had to be cancelled, and (v) awarding contracts. The project
is now well managed and near completion. With the exception of additional
site-works, the construction of the project schools is completed. Almost
all furniture has been delivered and equipment delivery will soon be com-
pleted. All the schools are in operation. The technical assistance program
is about 30 months behind schedule due to slow selection process; hence the
closing date has been extended from December 31, 1975, to December 31, 1976.
In May 1975 a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to cover
cost increases due to currency realignments. A completion mission is
scheduled for February 1977.
Cr. No. 229                  Douala Port Project:   US$1.5 million Credit of
January 14, 1971; Effectiveness Date: April 14,
1971;.Closing Date: December 31, 1974; (Original
Closing Date: June 30, 1973).
The Douala Port Project commenced in July 1972 and physical work
under the Credit was satisfactorily completed in November 1974. Covenants
and undertakings agreed during Credit negotiations have been reasonably ful-
filled, but financial targets were not achieved. Remedial financial measures
are included in the Second Douala Port Project.
Cr. No. 302                  SEMRY Rice Project: US$3.7 million Credit of April
26, 1972; Effectiveness Date: July 28, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Implementation has been on schedule and the Credit is fully dis-
bursed. Results achieved by the project in the field of production yields
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
and agricultural practice improvements have largely exceeded targets. The
project has been less successful in attracting qualified Cameroonian staff
and establishing an adequate financial management but these shortcomings
are being corrected.
Cr. No. 320                  Second Education Project:   US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by twenty-four months, but no
extension of the closing date of June 30, 1979, is expected. The project
is generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to currency realign-
ments and the accelerated price increases which have occurred since 1973, one
project school was transferred to the Third Education Project. (Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935     Second Highway Project:   US$24.0 million Credit
of September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978 and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Government has awarded civil works contracts for all three
roads, and construction began in December 1974. Contractors started work
slowly on the Douala-Pont du Nkam (161 km) and Pont du Noun-Foumban (50 km)
roads, and delays of six months to one year are expected. Construction of
the Garoua-Mora (260km) road is progressing satisfactorily. The project
was reappraised in September 1975 and the total cost was estimated to have
almost doubled. In view of the unexpected magnitude of the cost overruns
and the absence of additional financing from new donors, the Government
agreed to postpone construction of one road section (90 km) to reduce total
project cost. A Supplementary Credit of US$15.0 million was approved in
March 1976 to help alleviate the burden imposed on the Government by the
project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                  Livestock Project:   US$11.6 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although
some project components are behind schedule. The situation at one project
ranch continues to be very good, and that of a second ranch has notably
improved; activities in the third could start in 1977, subject to Bank's
approval of a development program. Twenty-one bids have been received and
evaluated for the turn-key construction of two slaughterhouses; negotiations
took place with the lowest fully responsive evaluated bid and the contract has
been signed in October 1976. About 45 credits are expected to be disbursed
during 1976/77. The tsetse-fly eradication campaign is likely to start in
November 1976, as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Ln. No. 1038                 Second Railway Project:   US$16.0 million Loan
to REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effective-
ness Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Procurement of main project items is satisfactory. The track mate-
rial has been delivered and final delivery of rolling stock items is underway.
Although problems were encountered in the construction of the foundation
for the Japoma bridge, the works are expected to be completed by April 1977.
Due to the fluctuation in exchange rates during project implementation, addi-
tional financing was required to cover the cost of the equipment already
ordered and of the reconstruction of the Japoma bridge. Consequently, the
railway has obtained a supplier's credit of US$890,000 to supplement Bank
financing for the rolling stock, and the foreign exchange cost of the con-
sulting services (US$925,000) originally included in this Second Railway
Project has been transferred to the Third Railway Project financed under Loan
No. S-4 which became effective on October 5, 1976. Due to the world slump in
the timber market and recent substantial increases in staff costs, REGIFERCAM
experiences difficulty in attaining the financial covenants included in the
Loan Agreement. During the negotiations of the Third Railway Project, the
Second Railway Project financial targets were retained and the Government and
REGIFERCAM undertook to take the necessary measures including tariff increases
to achieve the target set for 1978/79. A first tariff increase averaging
12.4 percent has been implemented, effective June 1, 1976, and subsequent
tariff increases will be implemented on July 1, 1977 and 1978, respectively.
Ln. No. 1039                 Cocoa Project:   US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The executing agency, SODECAO, is now fully staffed and is extending
its activity to the complete project area. The management structure, which is
still unsatisfactory, is to be strengthened by the appointment of a Technical
Manager, expected in January 1977. Progress in the field is up to appraisal
objectives but further progress will depend in a considerable part on a
revision of the existing farmgate price structure which presently does not
induce production of higher quality cacoa. Project costs are under control
and no cash-flow problems are foreseen for the next twelve months. The Road
Program part of the project has made a start, after a delay of more than one
year. The main reason being lack of cooperation from the Government's Roads
Department, a problem which still remains to be solved.
Cr. No. 574                  Niete Rubber Estate Project:   US$16.0 million
Credit of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
December 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber estate has been steady: plant-
ings are on schedule and construction work ahead of schedule. Labor hired



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
locally has been more than anticipated and is sufficient up to now; remote
recruitment is likely to become necessary soon. Collection of rubber seed is
being improved, as unusually heavy rains have hampered seed production.
HEVECAM's Chairman has been appointed to an important national position, and
his resignation of the Chairman post should be anticipated.    The terms of
reference for the regional master plan studies have been proposed.
Cr. No. 575                  Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$3.0 million Credit of July 1, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: December 1, 1975; First
Postponement: February 2, 1976; Second Post-
ponement: June 2, 1976); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Credit effectiveness was declared on July 30, 1976 after two post-
ponements. Delays were caused mainly by difficulties with the selection and
appointment of three experts as technical assistance to the "Banque Cameroun-
aise de Developpement" (BCD). Their appointment was a condition of effective-
ness of the credit.
Ln. No.- 1245-T              Third Education Project:   US$17.0 million
Third Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effective-
ness Date: December 31, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: October 4, 1976); Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The effectiveness date was postponed because i) the documents en-
larging the Project Unit have not yet been received in the Bank and ii) the
contract between the Government and the architects for undertaking project
design has not yet been signed. These are the only conditions of effective-
ness that are unfulfilled. Work on school designs is proceeding under a
Letter of Intent with consulting architects.
Ln No. S-4                   Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of
June 25, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5,
1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The loan is effective.
Ln. No. 1321                 Second Douala Port Project:   US$15.0 million
Cr. No. 657                  Loan of September 24, 1976; Projected Effec-
tiveness Date: January 24, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981 and US$10.0 million Credit of same
date; Projected Effectiveness Date:   January 24,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan and the credit are not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 8 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                United Republic of Cameroon
Amount:                  US$4.5 million
Terms:                   Standard
Project
Description:             (a)  About 20 man/years of advisory consultants'ser-
vices to strengthen key government services in
the Ministries of Economy and Planning, Agricul-
ture, Transport, Equipment and Housing, Energy
and Mining, involved in investment planning
policy analysis and project processing.
(b) About 130 man/months of short and medium-term
consultancies to undertake project-related
policy and project preparation studies in the
areas of agricultural and urban development.
(c) About 60 man/months of consultancies and other
provisions for training of local project per-
sonnel and for the development of Cameroonian
institutions concerned with preinvestment and
project work.
Estimated Costs:
US$ 000
Local                 Foreign            Total
Salaries and
allowances of advisory
consultants                 250                   1,420             1,670
Short-term con-
sultant services
for studies                 110                     920            -1,030
Incremental salaries
and allowances of
local staff                 330                      -                330
Equipment and vehicles        60                     180               240
Operating costs              380                     470               850
Training (including
consultant services)         50                     470               520
Unallocated Funds             75                     485               560
Contingencies                385                     615             1,000
Total             1,640                   4,560             6,200



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 8 pages
Financing and
Disbursement:            The proposed Credit of US$4.5 million would finance
about 73 percent of total project costs (net of
taxes) equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange
component. The Government would provide the remainder.
The proceeds of the Credit would finance: 100 per-
cent of total expenditures (net of taxes) for the
salaries and related allowances of advisory consul-
tants; 90 percent of total expenditures for short-
term consultants for studies and training and 75
percent of total expenditures for equipment and
vehicles to be procured under the project, and 50
percent of the project's total incremental operating
expenditures. About US$0.8 million of funds from the
proposed credit would be left for contingencies and
for items, chiefly consulting services, that would be
specified in the course of project implementation.
The cost of incremental salaries and allowances for
local staff will be entirely borne by the Government.
Disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit are esti-
mated as follows:
(cumulative)
US $'000
FY 77
2nd                   100
FY 78
1st                   440
2nd                   830
FY 79
1st                 1,600
2nd                 2,400
FY 80
1st                 3,225
2nd                 4,200
FY 81
1st                 4,500
Procurement
Arrangements:            The selection of consultants would be in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines.   All contracts for con-
sultancy services would be subject to the prior
approval of the Association. Vehicles and equipment
would be procured through competitive bidding adver-
tised locally.
Consultants:             The project provides for about 20 man/years of advi-
sory consultancies and about 130 man/months of short-
and medium-term consultancies for studies and 60
man/months for training activities.
Appraisal:               There is no separate appraisal report.



AMDE III
Page 3 of 8 pages
CAMEROON
TLCEICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUHMARY PROJECT COSTS
(us$ 000)
% Total
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Total      Local     Foreign     Foreign     Costs
77/78      78/79      79/80
Advisory Consultants                              527.5      615.0      525.0     166T.5     250.1     1417.4         85          27
Equipment and Vehicles                           119.9        84.2        -        204.1      49.6      154.5          75.6        3
Operating Cost 1/                                251.0       306.3      293.0      850.3     382.6      467.7          55         14
Local Starf Salaries  /                          109.3      109.3       109.3      327.9     327.9        -             0          5
Short-term Consultants for Studies               205.3      492.6       328.4     1026.3     102.6      923.7         90          17
Training (incl. Consultant services)             173.8       260.8       86.6      521.2      52.1      469.1          90          8
Unallocated Funds                                 93.1      186.1       279.2      558.4      75.4      483.0          86.6        9
Physical Contingencies  /                         54.1        62.3       60.4      176.8     106.7       70.1          39.6        3
Price Contingencies  /                           125.0       295.8      400.0      820.8     275.0      545.8          66.5       14
Total                         1659.0     2412.4      2081.9     6153.3    1622.0     4531.3         73.1       100
i/ Incremental
2 On operating costs and local staff salaries only
/ 12% p.a. on long-term and short-term consultants costs, operatinB coats, local staff salaries; 10% p.a. on
vehicles/equipment. No contingencies on studies, training, unallocated funds.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 8 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ADVISORY CONSULTANCY COSTS
(US$ 000)
Cost    Year 1     Year 2    Year 3
per year   77/78     78/79     79/80    Total
Ministry of Economy and Planning
Transport Economist (Senior)           90.0       90.0      90.0      90.0     270.0
Ministry of Agriculture
Agricultural Economist (Senior)        90.0       90.0      90.0      90.0     270.0
General Agriculturalist                85.0       42.5      85.0      85.0     212.5
Financial Analyst                      90.0       45.0      90.0      90.0     225.0
Sub-Total                                   177.5     265.0     265.0    707.5
Ministry of Transport
Transport Economist                    85.0       85.0      85.0      85.0     255.0
Ministry of Equipment and Housing
Urban Development Expert               90.0       90.0      90.0               180.0
Ministry of Mining and Energy
Hydraulics Engineer                    85.0       85.0      85.0      85.0     255.0
TOTAL                                    527.5      615.0     525.0   1667.5
Price contingencies (12% p.a.)                    63.3     156.5     212.6     432.4
GRAND TOTAL                              590.8      771.5     737.6   2099.9



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 8 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOCAL STAFF REQUIREMENT AND INCREMENTAL COSTS
A: Quantity                                       B: Cost
(man/year)                                        (US$ 000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3               Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Total
77/78      78/79      79/80                 77/78      78/79       79/80
Ministry of Economy and Planning
Project Coordinator                         1.0        1.0        1.0                  2.4          2.4        2.4        7.2 A/
Assistant Project Coordinator
(Technical)                                0.5        0.5        0.5                  0.8         0.8         0.8       2.4 A/
Assistant Coordinator
(Management)                               0.5        0.5        0.5                  0.8         0.8         0.8       2.4 A/
Training specialist                         1.0        1.0        1.0                  8.3         8.3         8.3       24.9 B/
Support Staff 1/                            3.0        3.0        3.0                  8.2         8.2         8.2       24.6 C/
Sub-total                     6.0        6.0        6.0                 20.5        20.5        20.5      61.5
Ministry of Agriculture
Charg8 d'Etudes: Project/Studies            1.0        1.0        1.0                  1.6          1.6        1.6        4.8 A/
Chargd d'Etudes: Statistics/Survey          1.0        1.0        1.0                  1.6          1.6        1.6        4.8 A/
Agronomist                                  1.0        1.0        1.0                  0.8          0.8        0.8        2.4 A/
Economist                                   1.0        1.0        1.0                  7.5          7.5        7.5       22.4 B/
Statistician                                1.0        1.0        1.0                  0.8         0.8         0.8        2.4 A/
Accountant/Financial Analyst                 1.0       1.0        1.0                 22.2         22.2       22.2       66.6 B/
Support Staff 2/                            5.0        5.0        5.0                 12.9         12.9       12.9       38.7 Cl
Sub-omtal.-                  11.0       11.0       11.0                 47.4        47.4        47.4      142.2
Ministry of Transport
Charge d'Etudes                              1.0       1.0         1.0                  1.6         1.6        1.6        4.8 A/
Economist                                    1.0       1.0         1.0                 7.5          7.5        7.5       22.4 B/
Support Staff 3/                            2.0        2.0        2.0                  4.7          4.7        4.7       14.1 C/
Sub-total                     4.0        4.0.       0 0                 13.8         13.8       13.8       41.4
Ministry of Equipment and Housing
Charg6 d'Etudes/Urban Specialist             1.0       1.0         1.0                 1.6          1.6        1.6        4.8 A/
Economist/planner                            1.0       1.0         1.0                 7.5          7.5        7.5       22.4 8/
Support Staff 3/                             2.0       2.0        2.0                  4.7          4.7        4.7       14.1 C/
Sub-total                     Tl3 TPU                                                                          -37
Ministry of Mining and Energy
Charge d'Etudes Water/Sewerage               1.0       1.0        1.0                  1.6          1.6        1.6        1.6 A/
Economist/Statistician                       1.0       1.0        1.0                  7.5          7.5        7.5       22.4 B8
Support Staff 3/                            2.0        2.0        2.0                  4.7          4.7        4.7       14.1 C/
Sub-tocal                     4.0        4.0        4.0                 13.8        13.8        13.8      41.4
TOTAL                        29.0       29.0       29.0                109.3        109.3      109.3      327.9
Physical contingencies (15%)                                                          16.4         16.4       16.4       49.2
TOTAL                                                                  125.7       125.7       125.7      377.1
Price contingencies 12% p.a.                                                          15.1         32.0       50.9       98.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                            140.8       157.7       176.6     475.1
I/ One auxiliary staff plus two secretaries                Al Duty allowance only
2/ One auxiliary staff plus four secretaries               B/ Salary plus duty allowance
3/ Two secretaries                                         C/ Salary plus management bonus
December 8, 1976



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 3 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES COSTS
(US$ 000)
Unit Cost 1/       Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Total
77/78         78/79         79/80
I. Vehicles
Ministrv of Economy and Planning
Passenger car                               6.7             6.7            -                           .7
Small passenger car                         4.0             4.0            -                          4.0
Four wheel drive                            9.3             9.3           9.3                        18.6
Sub-total                                        20.0          9.3                        29.3
Ministry of Agriculture
Small passenger car                         4.0             4.0           8.0                        12.0
Four wheel drive                            9.3             9.3          18.6                        27.9
Sub-total                                        13.3         26.6                        39.9
Ministry of Transport
Small passenger car                         4.0             4.0            -                          4.0
Four wheel drive                            9.3              -            9.3                         9.3
Sub-total                                         4.0          9.3                        13.3
Ministrv of Equipment and Housing
Small passenger car                         4.0              -            4.0                         4.0
Four wheel drive                            9.3             9.3            -                          9.3
Sub-total                                         9.3          4.0                        13.3
Ministry of Mining and Energy
Small passenger car                         4.0              -            4.0                         4.0
Four wheel drive                            9.3             9.3            -                          9.3
Sub-total                                         9.3          4.0                        13.3
A)  Total                                                     55.9          53.2                       109.1
B)  Price contingencies (10% p.a.)                             5.6          11.2                        16.8
C)  Total (A + B)                                             61.5          64.4                       125.9
II.  Equipment 2/
Ministry of Economy and Planning                                9.0          3.0                        12.0
Ministry of Agriculture                                        25.0         14.0                        39.0
Ministry of Transport. Ministry of
Equipment and Housing, Ministry
of Mining and Energy                                        30.0          14.0                        44.0
Sub-total                                        64.0         31.0                        95.0
Price contingencies (10% p.a.)                                 6.4           6.5                        12.9
D)  Total                                                     70.4          37.5                       107.9
Grand Total (C + D)                                      131.9         101.9                       233.3
1/ Excluding taxes
2/ Office equipment and installations
December 8. 1976



ANNEX III
Page 7 of 8 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
(US$ 000)
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3    Total
77/78     78/79      79/80
Ministry of Economy and Plan
House rentals (expatriate staff)      16.0      16.0       16.0       48.0
Vehicles operating                    13.5      20.5       20.5       54.5
Travel and misc. Allowances           19.3      19.3       19.3       57.9
Office overheads                       8.0       8.0        8.0       24.0
Sub-total                        56.8      63.8       63.8      184.4
Ministry of Agriculture
House rentals (expatriate staff)      16.0      24.0       24.0       64.0
Vehicles operating                    12.3      24.0       24.0       60.3
Travel and misc. Allowances           55.2      66.2       66.2      187.6
Office overheads                      12.0      14.7       14.7       41.4
Sub-total                        95.5     128.9     128.9       353.3
Ministry of Transport, Ministry of
Equipment and Housing, Ministry
of Mining and EnerRy
House rentals (expatriate staff)      24.0      24.0       16.0       64.0
Vehicles operating                    17.3      28.9       28.9       75.1
Travel and misc. Allowances           44.1      43.4       38.1      125.6
Office overheads                      13.3      17.3       17.3       47.9
Sub-total                        98.7     113.6     100.3      312.6
Total                       251.0     306.3     293.0      850.3
Physical contingencies (15% p.a.)     37.7      45.9      44.0       127.6
Total                       288.7     352.2     337.0      977.9
Price contingencies (12% p.a.)        34.6      89.6     136.5      260.7
Grand Total                     323.3     441.8     473.5    1,238.6



ANNEX III
Page 8 of 8 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financing Plan
(US$ 000.)       IDA disbursement
IDA      GVT.      Total                  %
Advisory consultants            1,670      -         1,670                100
Short-term consultants
for studies                      925     105        1,030                 90
Salaries/allowances
of local staff                   -       330          330                 -
Equipment/Vehicles                180      60          240                 75
Training (_including
consultant services)             470      50          520                 90
Operating costs
(incremental)                    425     425         850                  50
Unallocated funds )
and             )            830     730       1,560                  53
Contingencies        )
Total                 4,500   1,700       6,200                  73



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 13 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Project Coordinator
Responsibility for overall coordination of activities planned
under the project will be entrusted to the Secretary General of the Ministry
of Economy and Planning. Because this coordination role is expected to
involve a considerable amount of work, the Secretary General will be assisted
in this responsibility by a project coordinator who will have direct access to
the Secretary General and will report to him. The project coordinator will be
assisted by two part-time assistants, one with an engineering and economic
background, the second with a management and legal background. The project
coordinator will be a high level civil servant with extensive administrative,
planning and project work experience. The project coordinator and his team
will:
i)   help ensure that the planned activities are being implemented by
the various agencies on time and in line with project objectives;
ii)   stimulate effective coordination of the various government minis-
tries and agencies involved in the implementation of the project;
iii)   liaise with the Bank (and eventually other aid agencies) regarding
project operations;
iv)   help ensure that Cameroonian personnel in sufficient numbers and
skills are assigned to the teams; and that adequate logistical and
administrative support (including adequate provisions in the Govern-
ment budget) are provided at the right time;
v)   oversee with the assistance of the Ministry of Economy and Planning
experts, the preparation and screening of proposals for studies and
training activities to be financed under the project;
vi)   help ensure that the Government's and the Association's funds are
adequately channeled to the implementing agencies and are used
for the purposes of the project and according to the appropriate
guidelines. In this capacity he will be in charge of reviewing
the annual budget proposals made by the agencies concerned with
implementation of the project and consolidating project expendi-
ture records. The project coordinator will be helped in these
activities by the Ministry of Economy and Planning's Directorate
of Programming which is responsible for managing the country's
investment budget and coordinating all foreign aid as well as
controlling its use.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 13 pages
Though he will play no direct role in the implementation of
proposed project operations, the functions of the project coordinator are
vital for the successful implementation of the project and attaining of
its goals.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 13 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Advisory Consultants
to be provided to the Ministry of Agriculture
The credit would be used to finance 8 man/years of advisory consultant ser-
vices to be located at the Ministry of Agriculture, Directorate of Studies
and Projects, with the following details:
1.   Senior Agricultural Economist
Qualifications: professional agricultural economist, with
very good knowledge of project analysis
techniques, and with at least 3 years of
experience in both project preparation and
implementation preferably partly acquired
in a developing country.
Duties:           advise the Director on all matters related
to the Directorate's functions, in particular
programming, preparing, implementing
and monitoring agricultural projects and
related studies; advise and assist on the
preparation of the annual work program,
proposals for studies and related budgets;
act as advisory team coordinator.
2.   General Agriculturalist
Qualifications: professional general agriculturalist, with
minimum 3-year experience in agricultural
development and in project preparation,
preferably partly acquired in a developing
country, a good knowledge of project appraisal
and implementation techniques.
Duties:           advise and assist on all agroeconomical
aspects in project preparation, evaluation
and implementation, and of related studies.
3.   Senior Financial Analyst
Qualifications: professional financial analyst, with minimum
7-year experience in management and accounting
of agricultural projects, partly acquired in
a developing country; knowledge of project
evaluating and monitoring techniques.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 13 pages
Duties:           advise and assist in establishing a
ministerial expertise/unit for the
management of public investments in the
sector; devise a system of regular report-
ing by project organizations; monitor ac-
counting procedures, advise on financing
and procurement matters.
All the advisors must be fluent in French and have a working
knowledge of English. All must be capable of team work. Previous experience
in training will carry weight since all the experts would participate in a
training program for local staff. The experts would be internationally
recruited.



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 13 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Outline of Proposed Organizational Chart
for the Directorate of Studies and Projects
in the Ministry of Agriculture
|Diecorte of Studies and Pro.lects|
|Studies and                 AgriultralAdministration 
lPIrojects                    Stwatistics|
-Projects                    Data Collection
. Preparation             Data Processing
. Supervision             Surveys
. Evaluation              Diffusion
General Studies
Personnel
Director
Deputy
Senior Advisors
,Agric. Econ; Fin. An.
S&P                      AS                         A
Head; Cameroonian      Head; Cameroonian         Head; Cameroonian
Advisors:              Advisor:
Seniors, AE,FA         Statistician 1/
C-en. Agric.
Agronomist 1/        Local:
Statisticians (2)
Local:
Agric. Economist
Fin. Analyst
1/ Expected to be provided by FAC



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 13 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Responsibilities and Organization of the
Directorate of Studies and Projects in the
Ministry of Agriculture.
Article 33.     Under the authority of a director assisted by a deputy, the
Directorate of Studies and Projects shall be responsible for:
-    studies of a general nature in cooperation with the services
in charge of agricultural research and the services respon-
sible for overall economic planning;
-    determining objectives and means for agricultural policy;
-    -design, evaluation and programming of agricultural acti-
vities;
-    government intervention in the agricultural sector;
-    sector programs by commodity;
-    rural development;
-    identifying, preparing and following up agro-industrial
projects in cooperation with the technical departments
concerned.
Article 34.    The Directorate of Studies and Projects shall include two per-
sons responsible for studies and the Bureau of Common Affairs and the follow-
ing three service departments:
-    the Studies and Projects Department;
-    the Agricultural Economics Survey Department;
-    the Agricultural Statistics Department.
Article 35.    Under the authority of a Department Head assisted by a deputy,
the Studies and Project Department shall be responsible for:
-    carrying out of general studies in the agricultural sector;
-    agricultural planning;



ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 13 pages
the preparation of agro-industrial and forestry projects;
the programming and evaluation of Government intervention
in the agricultural and forestry sectors in cooperation
with the organizations concerned;
the preparation of financing documents in cooperation with
the ministerial departments concerned;
The Department shall include two offices:
-    a General Studies Office;
-    a Planning Office
Article 36.    Under the authority of a Department Head assisted by a deputy,
the Agricultural Economics Survey Department shall be reponsible for:
-    general studies in the field of agricultural production;
-    sample and statistical surveys;
The Department shall include two offices:
-    a General Studies Office;
-    an Agricultural Economics Survey Office
Article 37.     Under the authority of a Department Head assisted by a deputy,
the Agricultural Statistics Department shall be responsible for gathering
agricultural statistics and for circulating them from time to time.
The Department shall include two offices:
-    a Statistical Office for perennial crops;
-    a Statistical Office for food crops, vegetable and fruit crops.
Source:  Decree No. 76/256 of July 1, 1976



f  rW=r 13 PO4CS
CA)4EPOON
7ECISOCAL ASSISTANICE ?R1ECJT
P?posf.r the
Fo_rtO Pia" 19'6I77 - 980/81
(nblinCAfrabce a   1974/t          b7 Oc..) t
Pced.otsomlnsd  OrePTo. its       Tot.l                                                  P.d.t.eml.d            pylsz            Total
Pyojetst         Ngh     5~ia       Pcopo..d                                                  Peojacta        4igh..                Propo.d
N-th  ~  ~      ~      ~     ________         priority   priority   P-.             wetr     lm         pcsei5                                IJoit      merOit,    ?cour
Agrle.ltor                                                                                    Zgicitc
04a-4 P1sin,Genr.c Idae lopmsnt                         3.0                                   C-d.e,  Ph... II + kapLacint                            3.0         2.2
No.d. prOs,m                            P...                                   Noop.l.: Db.hbail                         3.0
We1i -mt.. pr.gr-         3.0                                                            011 P.mII                                                 4.4
SOacsi-Va-d4l.: 00.11 den.                              1. 3                                            Ccoenots                                                  1.8
NE Umoc..  leaI.  ltent md 1. r.d.p.     0.33                                                HMe4cm    Robber I + II                    4.0                       1.0
S     Bt 00cC  R ...ttlnt and L.r.d.p.                             2.25                       B-naa. OCB Zd trench.                                   0.8
S00Ny: Ean.nslo  (Pt.*.* II)                                       1.20                       Avoosdo.                                                            P...
LAos-i, trvigetio                                                  2.50                       toh.taa  -off.., bhabilit.tlon            1.3
Lo=o   Sttdlo.p..                                                                             Bslbib: I.r.d. project                                  0.43
Veg.eshlaetpr.grn                                                  p..                         od.rop. for lsdntri.1
Irrig tad  ~t..ats--                                                  .        -               plsmcatims                                         ~        
S.bt.t.1a agrt..lt.r.                     3.53          4.30       3.90      13.78            Sob-tot.1 grinoLt.r.                      8.5           6_23        9.4         24.13
Li-eetok                                                                                      Livestok: miLk ranch                                     _   _        0.40.
Tec.ara                                0.00                                               Por...tc: U48. roforset.tt..                                          P...        P...
fiore-hol It  I r, !mttr  North                         1.0
Oi_.c 'J.io: (macae                      0.3                                                S.. fishtng
F.ttenL.g   -hed (B60040)                                          0.5                        T-dcsdtion    fi.h6ri..                                 0.5
Livoetock sttion CS.tgger.)                             0.21                 ____             sb,lp.                                                              3.
SOb-Lotal  Ivest.ck                      0.75           1.1I       0.3        2.j,Lh                 .f.i.                                                        1
F.r..tr7, -11 ~~~Jll.g. p,.J..t.  0.2                   0-2 ~~S.b-tot.l Fi.hi.g                                                 0.3          .          4.3
1.1-d - Ft.h.ri..                                                      T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~lC.l W.atscn Plain  and Cosata1 B.Lt  0.0  6.73        3.0B        9.033
Soothe.- Forst
Tot.l Northern R.gIon                      4.48           5.40       4.45      16.33          Armtr
C-o.oa  Sodanc, Phas. 1                   6.0
Central Sv-nnh                                                                                         sod".", Ph.. I I                                 1.3S LI
Agrmi-Lt.r.                                                                                            GOth  coco  pr.gras                0. 5
Sogoo  lanoC----                         4.0                                                  Foodtcffe: Z    _id_I                                   1.0
Wheat! Sod.bld                                                     0.23                       E.to-te  SopL.                                          0.2 
I..dp.S   dspacrnmn                                1 .0                                                                                          2
I. r d.p.  Nmcoa.moni..are                                    -       _     ___               Sob-total  Vi..clt...                     6.3           2.7                      9.2
Sob-total  Sri-Lot.re                     4.0O          1.0        0.23       3.23          Fo.r.try
D-SgDNog: SoflbeL                         2.8
Li-estock                                                                                       ijoP proje.ct E.tstsi-,                                 0.3
1060, 1st lIvestock projot                1.2533  
So 2d lieto-k proJ.,t                                           1.   2L                    Sob-tot.L for-stry                        2.0           0.3                      3.3
Ocolo  _erice: trsditlon1al- 
h.rd.r.                                           0.30                                Toto1 Soothss  Forest                       9.3           3.2         __           2.3
S.b-tots1 Livestok                        1.23          0.30       1.00      2.33           Grood Titel                                29.78         21.73       22.50        74.01
Enland Fi.heri..
T.ts1 Control OaS--ba                       5.25          1.30       1.23      7.00             _Pact of SODSCAO, Ph..s 11
2   reLate. onLy to th.t por  of rho project that is Lo.Catd to th. -egis   cocond
Wostsrn HighleAo                                                                               l.r.d.p.  I. tograt.d    -Irldveomn       projeot.
Agri.uLt.ro
S.d.nka r ...ttlenet                                    P.m..
Mho rIo.                                                2.4
Ndopirico.                                              1.0
A,r.bl  co ffe., rhebblitation            1.0
Acobi.. ..ff.. and divmr.il..ical                       0.8
V.got.bl. dsve1cpmont                                   P...
To., -maSho ldr                                         P:m.
Qttinqoia rehbhllitaelon                                0.S
Sob-totl   crcot1  r                      1.0           4.757
Li--tok
1B00D, 1st Ivetoctk projec.t              1.23
2nd livestc.k pro st                                         1.00
Small r,Lots dsoeLoVnt stdy                            0.40 
Sob-totaL livstock                       ".s           0.4.0       1.00      2-1
Tntel Western Highlands                    L2.23          5.10       1.00      8.35



ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 13 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Draft Terms of Reference for studies of Master plans
for urban water supply, sewerage, and drainage for the
cities of Douala and Yaounde
Purpose: The consultants firm should prepare in close cooperation
with the Ministry of Mining and Energy feasibility studies, which can serve
as the basic information for the appraisal of a Bank project. The project
should meet the highest priorities in water supply and/or sewerage and drain-
age in one of the two cities, Yaounde or Douala.
Scope:    (i)  Master plans for works necessary to met the needs
up to the year 1996, when the population of Douala is
projected to reach 1.7 million and that of Yaounde
0.9 million.
(ii)  Preliminary engineering and feasibility studies for
the first phase of construction (to meet the needs
up to about 1986, when the populations are projected
to reach 1.0 million and 0.5 million respectively).
(iii)  The studies should take account of socio-economic
conditions in each city, and of expected urban
development.
Background:
(a)  The Societe Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun (SNEC) has
studied the development of Douala and Yaounde up to
1984, in two separate "Master plans".
(b)  Long-term Development of Sewerage and Drainage in
Yaounde (Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements
d'Outremer, 1964). Final Design of a Sewerage System
for the Commercial Centre of Yaounde (Societe Immo-
biliere du Cameroun, 1974). Master Plan for Drainage
in Douala (Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du
Territoire, 1969). "The Water Problem at Douala"
Planning Housing information, August 1973.
Project(s) Expected to Result from Study:
(c) Description: extension of production and distribution
facilities in construction of sewerage and drainage
systems for selected areas of one of the two cities.-
It is tentatively estimated that about 40 man/months of consultants
time would be required for the study, 20 for the Master plan and 20 for the
feasibility study.



ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 13 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Employment of an Expert by the Ministry of Mining and
Energy for the Supervision of Water Activities
(Draft Terms of Reference)
Proposals are invited from one experienced engineer in water supply
for assisting the Division of Energy and Water in the Ministry of Mining and
Energy.
This expert will together with the Ministry's staff (a charge d'etudes
with technical background and project experience and an economist), help:
(i) improve the planning and design of water supply and sewerage systems;
(ii) prepare long-term, rational, outline plans for the development of
water resources and establish a realistic, staged construction
and investment program aimed to achieve goals for piped water
~s-uFpies and sewerage systems as set for the present and following
five-year plans;
(iii) launch preliminary studies required in the preparation of the
investment program, prepare terms of reference and negotiate
contracts for these studies and supervise their implementation;
(iv) analyze costs of investments and operations and review current
tariff policies and their effectiveness and prepare recommendations
for future measures.
(v) participate in a training program for local staff.
Technical Qualifications
The Hydraulics/Sanitary Engineer to be employed should have the
following qualifications:
-    Professional qualifications in sanitary, or hydraulics, or
civil engineering;
-    experience of 6 to 8 years in dealing with the development of water
supply and sewerage disposal. Example of a suitable background
would be service with a consulting firm, planning commission or
Government agency dealing with these sectors. Competence in the
NOTE: Para (iv) would apply for the water and power activities.



ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 13 pages
design of water supply and sewerage systems, in the planning and
construction supervision and some knowledge of the operation
of such systems is necessary;
knowledge of and some experience in developing countries (preferably
African) and the technical problems of their economic development is
desirable. Previous experience in training will carry weight.



ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 13 pages
CAMEROON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
in Housing and Urban Development
The proposed activities would require (i) the services of an Urban
Development expert to be attached to the Ministry of Equipment and Housing
(Directorate of Urbanism and Housing), and (ii) execution of a feasibility
study designed to lead to a housing project.
A.   Urban Development Expert
The urban development expert would be attached to the Ministry for
a period of about 24 months to:
(i) assist in updating and completing the housing policy
recommended to the Government in 1974 by a special com-
mittee on housing and urban development;
(ii) assist in translating this new policy into a series of
programs and/or projects to be implemented during the
(1977-1981) Fourth Plan in collaboration with experts
from the Ministry of Economy and Planning;
(iii) help supervise the feasibility study of an urban develop-
ment project to be carried out by consultants; and
(iv) make proposals for special topics on which studies are
needed and help select and supervise the consultants who
would carry out these studies.
B.   Feasibility Study
The housing feasibility study would be carried out by a team of
consultants and would be supervised by the Urban Development expert mentioned
above with the assistance of the Directorate of Urbanism and Housing.
The feasibility would include the following tasks:
(i) complete detailed analyses of the housing/shelter
sector made within the Ministry to identify the gaps
existing between supply and demand of housing units;
(ii) carrying out limited base-line surveys to complement
the understanding of the ways by which a large pro-
portion in major urban centers provide themselves with
shelter and at which costs;



ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 13 pages
(iii) define the kind of "housing product" and programs susceptible
to meet the needs and capacities (financial and others) of
the population now not served by housing authorities, and
identify a design population, most probably in the income
bracket located between the lowest 15 and 65 percentiles;
(iv) identify adequate sites for a project through which new
programs (sites and services and slum upgrading) would be
tested; these sites would have to be located in the immediate
vicinity of employment areas;
(v) determine financial arrangements and pricing policies,
ensuring maximum cost recovery and, therefore, replicability
of the schemes recommended;
(vi) identify administrative arrangements for efficient project
implementation, and financial management.
The feasibility study would call for some 20 man/months of consul-
tants.



A Lde  -  3SLESOAN                       4-,\
N'~~~~~~
eoGuarPotxI ~~~~)~ f .7# < ) \ C ~~~H A D
VOLTA       ., ~~~~~coi oo 
t  r r   - G  aSo N  '. s             Oo<<?77./ 
O IANj       I      ENTA  FIA
UNITED REPUBlIC OF CAMEROON 
POPULATION, RAINFAlL AND TRANSPORTATION             li(oif'W   l,3S
CAMEROON\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gi:gilJil "\    /. XSS,4 Dg
27.2 InhoblGns per sqre kilorreter 
Ow/I= .1    2
RA201-' 0  Inhabitantp r
pl~~h5tQ1I-100  Srtuare kblmetrn  t\  \X    <
Mor than 15 0t                                      X<,
-UINEA  rth RoadI
_ 1yst in Millimeters XsVg
Oivvision Boundaries|     \  \\\ W ] \ \  S\, ' a\ \  \
X~~~~2    4p  4.  5  :  ) 
-4 ~ ~ OM
AN          - G   E  R  I 
'a.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~C   NT RA 
POPLAION, RANFL AN      TRANSPORTATION, ,,                      ~>>
272  Inhao,tanto 9W ~~udrO kIlomeREr  I  f~~4h{A   F  R  I  C  A  
'A        flflo-
G      v  / {7 e <7 ,,;k,'cwat Ls pe/
----art  R a                         ..
---  ttri<ven* 
-r  -rtvA/c  IboyfiR in meRers
EQUATORIAL                                 'Z.)UATOL GUINEA jI5.  G A :3 G N  3  C O N G O   \/ '
4,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'A ~ ~ ~~~~~~A
OCEANs NN*.
ROuATORI EOUAORIAL  21U3NE   G A2.8 NC






IBRD 1054IR
j. t
N,                                                                                                                                                                                            :t-z
--J
C:)
\L
4                                                                                                                                                                       ,N.
(3                          b'i
...................
C4
Z)
..........
. . .......
.xo%
11T              E 'R
ry I
t
L)   \t  ZLP    a            V
ui
Z   Z                                                                                                                          V    '8j9.
................
Z              Z                               o   0                                                                             'I .........
Lij tf)                                                                                       ::S
LIJ                                 y                             I !,
LLi
ui             8                                        'Z.                                 4,
Z3
Z                                                                                               0
0                                                                                               Z         X                                         7
C0
ce                    0                                                       >  O
0                          CL                 0
.14                                                D        I         w
0.                 V) i                                                                                         .:   9                                                                        ui
0                                                                                                     52
>1
LLI
LL.)                      OR
2                                                                                                                                                 I
I V)
Z                                                                                                                Lti
r.
A
G"ANA                    ri



