CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 673 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 15, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1977, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions 1pplicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-project" means a particular study or project of
technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and selected by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(b) "MINEP" means the Borrower's Ministere de l'Economie
et du Plan, or any successor thereto responsible for planning;
(c) "Project Coordination Team" means the team to be appointed
pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement and "Project Coordi-
nator" means the head of said Team provided for under said Section;
and


﻿-3-
(d) "DEP" means the Direction des Etudes et Projets estab-
lished within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture pursuant to
the Decree No. 76/256 of July 1, 1976, of the Borrower, or any
successor to DEP.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to four million five hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000).
Section 2.02. Subject to the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, the amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance
with the allocations of the proceeds of the Credit agreed upon be-
tween the Borrower and the Association pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as such allocations may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) after the date of this Agreement in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required to carry out Sub-projects and
agreed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15, commencing March 15, 1987, and ending September 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
September 15, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project and
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project consists of the carrying out
of high-priority Sub-projects selected by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association and designed to assist the Borrower
in planning, preparing and implementing its investment policies
and development projects in the transport, agricultural and urban
development sectors and in training its personnel required for
said purpose.
(b) The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method
of implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of
proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement exclu-
sively to expenditures on the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be let on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
contracts for advisers' or consultants' services required for any
Sub-project, including advisers to assist the Project Coordination
Team and the DEP in their respective activities under the Project,


﻿-7-
and which are to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be subject to the prior concurrence of the Association.
Such advisers and consultants shall have qualifications and ex-
perience satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Sub-project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall establish, for each of its minis-
tries and agencies concerned with the implementation of the Project,
a R6gie d'avances pursuant to the provisions of Article 126 of its
Ordinance No. 62/OF/4 of February 7, 1962, as such Ordinance may
be amended from time to time, for the purpose of making available
to such ministries and agencies the Borrower's contribution to the
financing of the Sub-projects to be carried out by such ministries
and agencies.
Section 4.02. (a) In order to ensure effective coordination
among the ministries and agencies of the Borrower concerned with
the implementation of Sub-projects, the Borrower shall:
(i) appoint and maintain in the MINEP a Project Coordi-
nation Team including, as head of such Team, a Proj-
ect Coordinator, qualified and experienced in admini--
strative matters, planning and the preparation of
projects and reporting directly to the Secretary


﻿-9-
General of the MINEP who shall have overall respon-
sibility for the coordination of Sub-projects and
direct the activities of such Team; and
(ii) cause its ministries and agencies concerned with
the implementation of Sub-projects to cooperate
effectively with such Project Coordination Team
in carrying out Sub-projects.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out Sub-projects related to
training, the Borrower shall employ a team of training consultants.
Section 4.03. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Sub-projects
related to the agricultural sector, the Borrower shall maintain the
DEP and appoint thereto a senior agricultural economist to serve,
inter alia, as adviser to the director of the DEP, a general agri-
culturist, and a financial analyst.
(b) Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Associa,ion, not later than April 30 of each year,
or such other date as the Association may agree, for its review
and comments, the draft work program of the DEP for the next fol-
lowing fiscal year.
(c) The Borrower shall periodically review the activities
and operations of the DEP in consultation with the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borro.ier shall provide the Project Coordi-
nation Team and the DEP with adequate qualified professional and
support staff.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all reasonable
measures to facilitate the work of the advisers and consultants
employed for any Sub-project in the performance of their services
therefor and make available to them all information required for
such work.
(b) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of the advisers or consultants employed
for any Sub-project, or grant any material extension of time or any
approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or agree to any
substitution of personnel of such consultants, or suspend payments
under, or terminate, any contract with such advisers or consultants
without the prior concurrence of the Association.
Section 4.06. For each Sub-project, the Borrower shall appoint
qualified local counterpart personnel to the advisers and consul-
tants referred to in Section 4.05 (a) of this Agreement pursuant
to arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.07. (a) Upon completion of the reports and studies
prepared under Sub-projects, including drafts thereof, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association copies thereof in such number as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the documents
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿- 11. -
Section 4.08. (a) For each Sub-project the Borrower shall es-
tablish arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Association,
for (i) selecting, subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 of
this Agreement, services, equipment and supplies and directing
their use for such Sub-project; (ii) directing and supervising
the work of the advisers and consultants employed therefor; and
(iii) reviewing the reports and recommendations of such advisers
and consultants.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower, in requesting the Association's agreement to any Sub-project,
shall furnish to the Association the following supporting documen-
tation:
(i) a detailed description of the studies and work
to be carried out in connection with the pro-
posed Sub-project, including the purposes and
objectives of the proposed Sub-project and the
benefits expected therefrom;
(ii) detailed information regarding the qualifi-
cations, terms of reference and duration of
service for any advisers or consultants to
be engaged in carrying out the proposed Sub-
project;
(iii) a description of the functions of the agency
or agencies or personnel of the Borrower to
be responsible for the execution of the pro-
posed Sub-project;


﻿- 12 -
(iv) a description of the support services to be
provided by the Borrower for the purpose of
the proposed Sub-project and of the local
counterpart personnel to be assigned to such
Sub-project pursuant to Section 4.06 of this
Agreement;
(v) estimates of foreign and local costs of the
proposed Sub-project broken down by major
items and show-.ng amounts to be financed by
the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the
Credit, respectively, and an estimated dis-
bursement schedule; and
(vi) a description of the measures to be taken to
comply with the provisions of Sections 3.03
and 4.05 (a) of this Agreement and paragraph
(a) of this Section.
Section 4.09. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the
Credit and to record the progress of each Sub-project (including
the cost thereof); (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect any records and documents relevant to
the Project, including records and documents which the advisers
and consultants employed shall be required to keep for purposes
of the Project; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any Sub-
project or any part of a Sub-project.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the mean-
ing of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the director of DEP referred to in Section 4.03 (a)
of this Agreement has been appointed; and
(b) that the Project Coordinator and the senior agricultural
economist referred to in Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement have
been appointed in accordance with Sections 4.02 (a) (i) and 3.03
(b), respectively, of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date September 13, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie
et du Plan
Yaound'
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:               Telex:
MINEP                        8268 KN
Yaound'
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telext
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Benoit Bindzi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items that may
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to each
Sub-project and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
% of
Expenditures
Category                                to be Financed
(1) Advisers' services                            100%
(2) Consultants' ser-                              90%
vices and training
(3) Equipment and vehi-                            75%
cles
(4) Operating costs                                50%
(other than staff
salaries) of minis-
tries and agencies
of the Borrower in
charge of carrying
out any Sub-project


﻿- 18 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
in respect of Category (4), unless such expenditures have been
made directly for the purpose of carrying out any Sub-project.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.


