Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23299 -BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$62.8 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND
RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
March 27, 2002
Brazil Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENITS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2002)
Currency Unit         =           Real (RS)
R$1.00                         US$ 0.41
US$1.00             =          R$ 2.43
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANA               -   National Water Agency
APL               -   Adaptable Program Loan
CAS               -   Country Assistance Strategy
CCE              *    Project Deliberative Committee at the State Level
CCR               -   Project Deliberative Committee at the Regional Level
CCM               -   Project Deliberative Conmnittee at the Municipal Level
CedeRural         -   State Rural Development Council
CELESC           -    Santa Catarina Electric Power Company
CEP1N            -    State Indigenous Council
CIMi              -   Indigenous Missionary Council
CIRAM            -    Center for Environmental Resources
CMDR             -    Municipal Rural Development: Council
CPPA             -    State Environmental Police
EA               -    Ernvironmental Assessment
EE                -   Environmental Education
EMP               -   Environmental Management Plan
EPAGRI           -    State Agricultural Research and Rural Extension Enterprise
FATMA             -   State Environmental Managerment Foundation
FIRR             -    Financial Internal Rate of Retuirn
FMR                   Financial Monitoring Report
FUNAI             -   National Indigenous Foundation
GEF               -   Global Environment Facility
GOSC             -    Government of Santa Catarina
IBRD              -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              -    International Competitive Bidding
ICEPA            -    State Institute of Agricultural Planning and Agro-Economics
ICMS              -   Imposto sobre Circula;do de .ercadorias e Servwos
1DB              -    Inter-American Development Bank
IDS              -    Index of Social Development
IERR             -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
IP               -    Indigenous People
LCSES            -    Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
LM 11            -    Land Management If Project
M&E               -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MA               -    Microcatchment Association
MIS              -    Management Information System
NCB               -   National Competitive Bidding
NRM               -   Natural Resources Management
PA               -    Protected Area
PMR              -    Project Management Report
PMU               -   Project Management Unit
POA              -    Annual Operation Plan
PRONAF           -    National Small Holder's Agricultural Program



PZP              -    Park Zoning Plan
QAT              -    Quality Assurance Team
QCBS             -    Quality and Cost Based Selection
RDF              -    State Rural Development Fund
RIF                   Rural Investment Fund
SDM              -    State Secretariat for Urban Development and Environment
SDA              -    Secretariat for Rural Development and Agriculture
SEE              -    State Executive Unit
SEUC             -    State Protected Areas System
SOE              -    Statement of Expenditures
SRN              -    Secretariat of National Treasure
TOR              -    Terms of Reference
VAT              -    Value-added Tax
WMP              -    Watershed Management Plan
Vice President         David de Ferranti
Country Director       Vinod Thomas
Sector Director        John Redwood
Task Team Leader       Graciela Lituma






iv
Brazil
Santa Catarina
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ....................................................................                                 I
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ........                     ...............    2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project .............                 .........................    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ................                  .............................    3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........                 ............     7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ....................................................................                      9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .........                   ................  12
3. Benefits and target population .          .............................................................     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............                  ............................  13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..........                 .....................  16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...                           17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ..........                   ....................  17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...........                      .........................  18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................               ..............................   18
E. Summary of Project Analysis
1. Economic ....................................................................                               19
2. Financial ....................................................................                              19
3. Technical ....................................................................                              20
4. Institutional ....................................................................                          20
5. Environmental ....................................................................                          21
6. Social ....................................................................                                 23
7. Participatory Approach ....................................................................                 24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ....................................................................                         25
2. Critical risks ..........................             ..........................................            26
3. Possible controversial aspects ...............................................................              27
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions ....................................................................               27
2. Loan Covenants ....................................................................                          28
H. Compliance with Bank Policies ....................................................................                     28



v
Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summary                                              29
Annex 2.       Detailed Project Description                                        35
Annex 3.       Estimated Project Costs                                             56
Annex 4.       Economic Analysis                                                   57
Annex 5.       Financial Summnary                                                   63
Annex 6.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                           64
Annex 7.       Project Processing Budget and Schedule                              74
Annex 8.       Documents in the Project File                                       75
Annex 9.       Statement of Loans and Credits                                      76
Annex 10.      Country at a Glance                                                 80
Annex 11.      Social Assessment                                                    82
Annex 12.      Project Management Structure                                        90
Annex 13:      Indigenous Peoples Strategy                                         96



BRAZIL
Santa Catarina
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Brazil Country Management Unit
Date: March 27, 2002                                   Task Team Leader: Graciela Lituma
Country Director: Vinod Thomas                         Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P043869  Sector: Natural Resources Management  Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)     Program of Targeted Intervention:  [x] Yes  []  No
Project Financing Data                 [X] Loan        [   Credit       [  Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
Amount (US$m): 62.8
Proposed terms:                           [ ]  Multicurrency     [x]  Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 5           [ ]   Standard Variable  [ ] Fixed            [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75% p.a. on undisbursed balances, beginning to accrue 60 days after signing.
Service charge: 1%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                              Local             Forei2n           Total
State Government                                                      44.7                 0.0           44.7
IBRD                                                                  57.4                 5.4           62.8
Total               102.1                 5.4          107.5
Borrower: State of Santa Catarina
Guarantor: Federative Republic of Brazil
Responsible agency(ies):
* State of Santa Catarina / Secretariat for Rural Development and Agriculture of Santa Catarina
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/$M):  2003*  2004  2005  2006    2007     2008
Annual:     7.4   10.2   10.6   13.2    11.8     9.6
Cumulative:     7.4  17.6   28.2   41.4     53.2    62.8
* Includes retroactive financing of up to US$3.0 million for eligible expenditures incurred after January 18, 2002 but not earlier than
12 months before loan signing.
Expected Effectiveness Date: June 30, 2002                                      Closing Date: December 31,2008



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
Background: During the 1980s, the Brazilian southern states became increasingly concerned with declining soil
productivity and increasing water pollution. These problems in rural areas were attributed to inadequate land
management practices and policies. The rapid expansion of the cultivated areas during the "green revolution" of the
previous decade, involving large-scale deforestation, followed by the application of inappropriate mechanization
technologies, led to severe soil erosion, rapid land degradation and increasing river silting. In a search for
sustainable solutions to this problem during much of the 1990s, the Bank financed a series of pioneer state projects
that supported innovative technical approaches for soil conservation in southern Brazil, one of which was the Santa
Catarina Land Management II Project (LM II, Loan 3160-BR). This project aimed to increase agricultural
production and productivity in selected areas of the State. By design, it concentrated its efforts in areas with the
highest susceptibility to soil erosion. It did not contain specific targeting mechanisms to benefit poor people. The
project, and its predecessor, the Parana Land Management I Project 0(oan 3018-BR), were highly successful in
expanding the adoption of improved practices and, in so doing, increased the productivity of staple crops and
reduced soil loss. Runoff water in streams contained fewer suspended solids, coliform bacteria and pesticide
residues, thus lowering silting and water treatment costs in downstream areas and reducing the incidence of water-
borne diseases and pesticide poisoning. LM II also demonstrated the effectiveness for project implementation of a
community-based participatory approach, using the microcatchment as the basic unit for physical planning. It also
helped to catalyze changes in the philosophy and modus operandi of 'Santa Catarina's rural support services and
agricultural research towards more environmentally sound and participatory approaches, increasing its relevance and
impact.
Brazil's decision to join Mercosur and macroeconomic adjustments placed all farmers in open competition with
large-scale farmers elsewhere, negatively affecting their profitability during the mid- to late 1990s. Ex-post
evaluation of the LM II project shows that farmers who adopted improved land management practices suffered
smaller declines in income than those who did not. Marginal and poorer farmers, who did not significantly benefit
from the project, were among the worst affected by falling agricultural piofits. More recently, the flexible exchange
rate regime and the devaluation of the Real, together with lowering of interest rates, gave a slight boost to Brazil's
agricultural sector, in particular to export products.
Rural incomes have declined further and faster than urban incomes during recent economic crises. Furthermore,
prices for staple crops of small-scale farmers are forecast to continue to decline throughout the present decade.
About 25% of the State's population lives in rural areas, of which about 38% live below the poverty line. For over
90% of the rural population, farming is their main economic activity. Among the southern states, Santa Catarina has
the highest proportion of very small-scale farms. As part of its effort to reduce rural poverty and recognizing the
strong linkages between degradation of natural resources and rural poverty, the Govermnent has requested Bank
support to implement a follow-up operation to the successful LM II project. The proposed project will be especially
targeted to assist the poorer rural population of Santa Catarina.
Project development objective: The project objective is to reduce rural poverty in the State of Santa Catarina, while
improving the management of natural resources. Poor rural families' incomes and livelihoods would be improved
by: (i) support for Government efforts to integrate environmental and social sustainability into development and
poverty reduction strategies; (ii) enhanced local governance and commumity participation in decision-making; (iii)
reversed land degradation and better protection of the State's natural resources; and (iv) improvements to income-
generating opportunities and living conditions for the rural poor.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Progress in achieving project objectives would be monitored by specific indicators designed to demonstrate or
measure the following:
*   A reduction in the incidence of rural poverty in 70% of the 880 microcatchments assisted;
*   Effective operation of project participating mechanisms set up ac community, microcatchment, municipal,
regional and state levels;



3
*   Improvement of natural resource management practices in all assisted microcatchments;
*   Improved water quality and reduced soil loss in benefited microcatchments;
*   Improved family incomes and employment among the target group; and
*   Enactment and publication of State environmental regulation, its application in the design and initiation of pilot
ecological corridors and protected areas.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 22116-BR           Date of latest CAS progress report discussion: May 24, 2001
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of March 6, 2000 flags poverty and inequality as the most important
medium- to long-term challenges for Brazil. The CAS Progress Report notes improving prospects for poverty
reduction due to successful continuation of fiscal reforms, renewed economic growth and increased Government
efforts to improve targeted social policies. To achieve strong, sustainable poverty reduction impacts, the CAS
further recommends well-targeted poverty programs to enhance the human and physical capital of the poor, to
improve social conditions and allow beneficiaries to make better use of economic opportunities, coupled with safety
nets to protect from economic shocks and natural disasters. To maintain progress, decentralized approaches are
advocated, under which funding and implementation responsibilities would be entrusted to states, municipalities and
communities. More support to small-scale farmers, education and health are among recommendations for
improvement. Environmental policies should be such as to underpin and sustain poverty reduction.
The proposed project would be fully consistent with these strategic recommendations. It would build on the
achievements of the earlier LM II in promoting more sustainable farming systems and improved management of
natural resources, but with increased emphasis on facilitating change among small and marginal farmers and
indigenous communities and thereby reducing poverty. The participatory development approach of LM II,
involving local stakeholder groups and state/municipal units of government, would be strengthened and targeting of
the rural poor would be sharpened. Additional measures would be added to address specific welfare and financial
constraints facing this target group, including rural employment creation and a system of matching grants. Steps
would be taken to address over-arching environmental threats to the sustainability of benefits. The project would
also support the CAS goals of poverty mitigation and judicious fiscal management and governance though technical
assistance in support to the State's demonstrated willingness to undertake meaningful reforms.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Rural Poverty: Santa Catarina has about 2% of the country's destitute families, of which 56% live in the rural
areas- a higher proportion than in any other geographical region of Brazil. About 38% of the rural households live
below the poverty line, including the majority of the State's remaining indigenous populations (estimated at about
7,000 individuals). Between 1995 and 1998, national per capita incomes declined by about 0.4% per annum, while
that of rural families fell by about 1.1%, and that of the small-scale farmers was down about 2.5%. The State of
Santa Catarina has not proved to be an exception to the above-mentioned trends. National economic reforms and
Brazil's decision to open its agriculture to international competition by joining Mercosur had the adverse effect of
greatly exacerbated poverty among small-scale farmers. Following exposure to open competition from large-scale
commercial producers elsewhere, farm gate prices and agricultural profits fell. Simultaneously, a decrease in
subsidies and the limited availability and high interest rates of commercial credit worsened the predicament,
particularly that of the small-scale farmer. Commercial farmers have shed labor, thus reducing opportunities of
marginal farmers to improve their livelihoods by working outside the family land. These trends have fueled Brazil's
rural exodus: between 1992 and 1998, about 2.4% of rural people fled their land annually and migrated to the cities.
In the southern states the migration rate averages about 4.1%, with Santa Catarina following this pattern. The
drastic reduction of quality of life in rural areas was also a major cause for rural migration in the State. Due to
decreasing farm income, rural dwellings, in particular those of poorer farmers, are not being properly maintained
and drinking water and sanitation conditions are deficient. About 25% of Santa Catarina's inhabitants live in rural
areas, of which about 90% are farmers. Currently, 90% of holdings have fewer than 50 hectares and 36% are below
10 hectares. Among the southern states, Santa Catarina has the highest proportion of very small farms. About 31%
of rural families earn less than two minimum wages per month; and a further 17%, between two and three.



4
Agricultural and Natural Resources Sector: Currently, some two million of the State's area of ten million
hectares are cultivated. More than half the cropped area is under corn, with soybean and other legumes as the
dominant commercial crops. Much of the cultivated area is sloping, in smallholdings, and was cleared from forest
during the first half of the twentieth century. In the 1970s, intens;ive use of heavy cultivation machinery,
agrochemicals, increasing exposure of bare soil to heavy spring rains, ;nd the locating of pig and other livestock
units close to watercourses caused accelerating erosion, as well as chemical and biological pollution of surface and
ground water. Falling productivity and calamitous floods in the 1980s encouraged farmers to look towards more
sustainable cultivation systems, such as reduced tillage and direct drillirng, plus improved management/ disposal of
livestock manure and toxic chemicals.
The Bank-supported LM II project successfully accelerated the spread of these practices during the 1990s. The
creation of a Santa Catarina Rural Development Fund (RDF) in 1993 provided a channel to induce and pilot needed
changes through incentives and public sector sharing of the farmers' costs, in particular of those that brought off-
farm public goods benefits. LM II also demonstrated the necessity to use community participation and the
microcatchment (a common drainage area typically, in Santa Catarina, ol some 3,000 hectares and with a population
of about 120 families) as the physical and social building block for projects to improve management of natural
resources. The project was responsible for substantially increasing environmental awareness in the rural areas of
Santa Catarina. About 500 microcatchments, a third of the State's area, directly benefited from LM II; additionally,
the project had a substantive spillover effect. Some 450,000 hectares of agricultural land were converted to more
sustainable management systems, and an effective start was made to pilot and implement integrated systems to
control pesticide and bacterial pollution. Hydrology regimes were improved and a start was also made with
consolidation of conservation units in critical ecological areas. As a consequence, yield of staple food increased
from 20 to 50%. Hence, farmers benefited by the project were better placed to cushion some of the effects of the
economic adjustment measures and the exposure to open international competition as a consequence of Brazil's
decision to join Mercosur. Livelihoods of the poorest rural people, including Santa Catarina's 7,000 Indigenous
People (IP), were particularly affected by these trends.
Water Management: During the 1990s, macroeconomic adjustments and the liberalization of the market have
significantly contributed to accelerating farm intensification throughout the country, in particular in Santa Catarina,
given the high percentage of small-scale farms in the State. The rapid expansion of pig, poultry and aquaculture
production, activities that remained profitable with good markets throughout the macroeconomic adjustment period,
exacerbated waste disposal problems and substantially increased water pollution. Not only has the State's pig
population risen rapidly from 3 to 6 million heads, but it has also suffered a substantive concentration of animal
production'; processing plants have reduced the radius of their operations to contain transport costs and keep their
competitiveness in the open market. Concerned with the environmental impact of this rapid expansion, the State is
now requesting that any expansion of the pig industry has to include a plan to effectively dispose of the pig waste
without negative environmental impact.
In response to increasing concern over water quality due to the accelerated expansion of the pig industry, the State
Agricultural Research and Rural Extension Enterprise (EPAGRI) carried out adaptive research on mitigating
environmental measures associated with fish-pig production systems in one river sub-basin, increasing the original
scope of LM II. In addition, the State Environmental Management Foundation (FATMA), in close collaboration
with EPAGRI and with the active participation of stakeholders, reviewed and revised the pig and pig-fish
environmental licensing system to facilitate compliance by small-scale farmers. Moreover, assisted by the LM II, a
new State law on aquaculture was drafted and subsequently enacted. EPAGRI also initiated adaptive research on
soil and water carrying capacity to assimilate pig waste. To better respcnd to the increasing environmental demand
of agricultural producers, the Secretariat of Agriculture created the Center for Environmental Resources (CIRAM)
within EPAGRI, capitalizing on the LM II experiences and equipment gained under the project. This center
consolidates, among others, geo-referenced information on weather, climate, soil and water quality. In close
collaboration with FATMA and the State Secretariat for Urban Development and Environment (SDM), CIRAM is
now carrying out a number of studies to identify viable solutions to mitigate environmental impacts from
agricultural activities.
I The aforementioned expansion took place in one decade. Currently the total number of animals in SC is 4.8 million
hogs, with an annual culling rate of 7.7 million. While the hog population rose, the number of producers fell from
60,000 to 18,000 during the last 20 years.



5
In spite of these efforts, much still remains to be done to better integrate land use with water management and
overall natural resources conservation, building on the successful experiences of the LM 11, where land-use
management was shown to meet water resource management objectives (though these were not specific objectives
of that project). The results of LM II also demonstrated that upstream farmers who arrested land degradation and
supported rehabilitation activities, contributing to improved water quality and quantity downstream, could and
should be compensated for their efforts. It also showed that the microwatershed commissions created under the
project are important grassroots fora that could facilitate their integration into broader discussion fora at the river
basin management level.
Conservation of Natural Resources: The Government has recently identified a number of other key environmental
issues. Despite the richness of the Atlantic forest resources throughout the State of Santa Catarina, including five
important habitat types (tropical moist broadleaf forests, Araucaria forests, restingas or coastal scrub on sandy soils,
natural grasslands and mangroves), parks and reserves cover only 1% of the State territory. They are widely
scattered and poorly represented by (or do not include) a number of important ecosystems, including the valuable
Araucaria forests and Campos grasslands. ' In addition, the Tabuleiro State Park, with a total area of 90,000
hectares, representing about 1% of the total and finest remnants of the country's Atlantic forest, is under threat,
despite being renowned as an important habitat for terrestrial, coastal and marine biodiversity. Principal threats to
the Park's ecological integrity include: (i) change and loss of restinga coastal habitats associated with the spread of
exotic plants and with drainage of shrubs and forests for further settlement; (ii) increasing pressure to convert natural
habitats into settled areas and agricultural lands due to the growing number of people and cattle inside and along the
boundaries of the Park; (iii) change or loss of natural habitats due to the growth of tourism and sporting activities
and to the increasing transformation of natural beaches into swimming resorts; and (iv) poaching of selected species.
Protection of the State's remaining forest and wilderness areas of high environmental importance from
encroachment or uncontrolled exploitation is still weak. One of the major elements that constrained the adoption of
effective environmental management approaches has been a weak legal framework that "harmonizes" existing laws
and policies in the sector, including: (i) the establishment of a single coherent system of Protected Areas (PAs) that
represent the State's different scenery and natural features; (ii) the provision of incentives to increase the role of
municipalities and the private sector in protecting the State's important endangered ecosystems; and (iii) the
provision of information and means to achieve a commitment from municipal governments and the public at large to
participate in the implementation of conservation management measures in compliance with the State Protected
Areas System (SEUC) criteria.
The Government strategies to address the above-mentioned issues are the following:
Rural Policy: Recognizing the growing social, economic and environmental problems and associated inter-
dependencies faced by small-scale producers, the State Government established in the late 1990s a new rural
development policy, based on inter alia the lessons learned from the successful LM II Project, but placing greater
emphasis on poverty alleviation. This policy also acknowledges that Santa Catarina's agrarian structure and
topography constraints are not fully conducive to competitive large-scale commodity production. Instead, it will
have to develop quality products to complement its economic scale with specialized products.  Products
differentiated by origin and quality will allow Santa Catarina's farmers to obtain better prices and consumers, as
well as food safety. Within the framework of this policy, it identifies as immediate rural priorities the reduction of
rural poverty, improved management of land and water resources and the control of pollution originating from farm
enterprises.  These aims are to be achieved by further evolution of the participatory, microcatchment-based
approach of LM II, focused especially on better means to reach the rural poor and respond to their demands, and
building on the innovative initiatives to resolve natural resources conflicts piloted under that project.
Decentralization of financing and execution of programs will be further advanced. Needs of the poorest smallholder
farmers, rural laborers and indigenous communities that were not targeted under LM II would be given special
attention, in particular, financing to improve housing and sanitation, and to create alternative sources of income,
including the creation of new off-farm employment opportunities. Targeted, cost-sharing grants would be used by
the Government to pilot and induce necessary changes.
1 The existing State system of parks and reserves consists of two State Parks (Tabuleiro and Serra Furada) and three
Biological Reserves, covering about 100,000 hectares in 18 of the 293 municipalities of the State.



6
Within current resource limitations, the Government is already implementing various elements of this rural strategy,
albeit on a limited scale. The participatory approaches of LM II have been adopted as state-wide practice by
EPAGRI. Refinements in outreach to include the poorest rural people are being piloted in 22 microcatchments. The
working links between different parts of Government and with the private and voluntary sectors developed during
LM II have been maintained and, in certain cases, strengthened. To increase farmers' probabilities of obtaining
differentiated prices for their agricultural products, the Government has recently passed a law instituting a system of
certification of origin of agricultural and food products. As an integral part of this strategy, the State is pursuing full
compliance with Federal and State pesticide legislation and is pronmoting organic agriculture. To promote
reforestation and reduce poverty, Santa Catarina is implementing a long-term state credit program for small
reforestation plots by poorer farmers, who would repay loans from eventual sales of forest products. To create
alternative sources of income, the State is also implementing the RDF and a pilot micro-credit scheme mainly for
poorer people, including landless workers. In addition, the State has recently initiated the "Programa Catarinense
de Inclusdo Sociarl whereby poorer municipalities will receive increased r esources for social programs. The State is
also actively participating in various ongoing Federal Government programs for rural poverty reduction, including
the smallholder credit and technical support program (PRONAF). To reverse the migratory trend of rural youth, the
State is also actively participating in the national Banco da Terra program and the Bank-financed Land-Based
Poverty Alleviation Project (Loan 7037-BR) to finance purchases of land and farm development for landless and
rural youth. The proposed project would help to better coordinate and iarget these programs to assist the poorest
rural population.
Land and Water Management: Soil and water management practices promoted under the LM II helped to
significantly reduce soil erosion and sedimentation and improved water quality at microcatchments level. Building
on this experience, the Government strategy is now to address natural resources management in a comprehensive
manner by implementing the State and National Water Sector Policies. To that end, it has divided the State into ten
hydrographic regions to promote decentralized water management at the regional and municipal level but with the
river basins as the planning and management unit. At present, the State has nine River Basin Committees formally
constituted with the participation of major stakeholders, with five more under consolidation. In 2000, Santa
Catarina established its first river basin company. With assistance from the National Water Agency (ANA), the
Secretary for Rural Development and Agriculture (SDM) is currently drafting regulations of the State Water Law
and, on a pilot basis, the first River Basin Management Plan. Santa Catarina is also evaluating alternatives to
strengthen the institution and make it responsible for implementing the water policy in the State and to regulate and
complement its various laws and regulations. There is an urgent need to closely coordinate all these efforts and to
further progress with the preparation of Integrated River Basin Management Plans as the basic instrument to
integrate conservation, production and social uses of water and other natural resources.
During 2000, FATMA and EPAGRI, with the active participation of all relevant stakeholders, implemented a pilot
scheme to assist small-scale producers to comply with environmental legislation on one river sub-basin. It was
based on initiatives carried out under the LM II to address water pollution issues associated with pig-aquaculture
farming systems. This pilot is now being adapted and adopted in two additional river sub-basins with the highest
concentration of pig production. The objectives of these initiatives are to determine and monitor soil and water
carrying capacity to assimilate treated pig waste and to test innovative ap;?roaches to pig waste disposal with private
sector partners. These initiatives will form the basis for developing a system to better regulate and control the
expansion of the pig industry in the State; it will receive support from the Second National Environmental Project
(NEP II, Loan 4524-BR). Given the rapid expansion of the pig industry in the State and its high environmental risk,
the State assigns high priority to these initiatives. The proposed project will support the dissemination and
implementation of these experiences to other parts of the State, seeking to strengthen partnerships with the
processing industry to induce it to assume greater responsibility in internalizing the negative environmental
externalities of pig, poultry, fish and dairy production.
Conservation of Natural Resources: The State Government is fully committed to wider protection of the State's
biodiversity and the environment, without which progress against its more immediate priorities in the rural and
natural resources management sectors would be jeopardized. To "harmonize" the existing legal and policy
framework in the environmental sector, the State Government and civil society proposed two new draft
environmental laws: (i) the law that creates the State Protected Area System SEUC, thus strengthening the legal
basis for the consolidation of protected areas and the development of ecological corridors, and providing a solid
foundation for the participatory management of PAs; and (ii) the "Lei do ICMS Ecol6gico" which establishes fiscal



7
incentives to augment VAT allocations to municipalities that set up PAs, implement environmental education
programs or protect local water sources from contamination. Although not in its original design, these initiatives
were supported by the LM II, acknowledging their importance for a more coherent environmental policy. The
SEUC law was recently approved by the Legislature. The project law for the "ICMS Ecol6gico" is currently under
discussion for approval by the Legislature, and is expected to become effective in 2002.
In an initial attempt to address major environmental issues and related land-use conflicts affecting the Serra do
Tabuleiro State Park, the State Government, with initial support from the LM II Project, has implemented a number
of participatory planning, institutional strengthening and educational activities in the Park, including the completion
of the Park Zoning Plan (PZP), a key management tool for the formulation of the Park management plan. In spite of
these achievements, much remains to be done. In light of its global significance for the conservation of biodiversity
and growing threats to the Park's species and habitats, the State Government requested the Global Environment
Facility's (GEF) support to prepare a medium-sized project which is currently in its final stage of preparation
(Conservation of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Rehabilitation in the Tabuleiro State Park Project, World Bank as
Implementing Agency, GM- P066537-LEN). It would build on the LM II and other relevant projects and programs,
expanding the Park's conservation program, formulating the Park Management Plan, implementing conflict
resolution activities recommended under the PZP and testing alternative livelihood activities in the buffer zone. In
addition, the State Government recently created the State Attorney's Thematic Office for Tabuleiro Park-related
lawsuits. This office initiated its work in mid-2001 with active participation in the process of conflict resolution.
Building on the experience piloted under the LM II to resolve conflicts in the pig-aquaculture industry, this office
will have a key role in proposing and enforcing "Terms of Adjustment of Conduct" (Consent Decrees) envisioned to
be implemented in the Serra do Tabuleiro Park, with support from the proposed GEF Project.
Structural Reform: In 1999, the State initiated the implementation of a structural reform program and entered into
a Debt Agreement with the Federal Government to improve its fiscal management which, until then, was critical and
represented an impediment to new Bank lending. However, its fiscal position has substantially improved and the
State has satisfied the rigorous fiscal and financial benchmarks established under its agreement with the Federal
Government while, at the same time, it has demonstrated its willingness to undertake meaningful structural reforms.
To further improve efficiency and effectiveness of its public expenditure programs, the state is proposing to review
the targeting and impact mechanisms of its social and safety net programs which would complement the project
efforts to reduce poverty. The State is also undertaking structural reforms of its public utility management strategy,
in particular with relation to energy, water resources, water supply and sanitation. Technical assistance in support of
these State efforts is envisioned under the project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Among the sector issues outlined above, the proposed project would focus on those linked most closely to the State
Govermnent's priority of rural poverty reduction, while improving the management of natural resources.
Project components have been designed to address, either separately or in synergy, each of the following underlying
causes of the upsurge in rural poverty in Santa Catarina.
*   Rural Poverty: Through the application of clear criteria for targeting the rural poor and of a highly participatory
and decentralized diagnosis at the local and farm level, the project would concentrate its efforts on addressing
the main causes of rural poverty.
*   Low quality of life of the rural poor: The impacts on family health from poor housing, lack of sanitation and
polluted domestic water supplies would be addressed through grants for the rural poor.
*   Insufficient knowledge of participatory methods by technical staff. Project implementers and beneficiaries
would be exposed to effective participatory methods, which are essential to achieve governance. A strong
training program proved to be an important tool to induce needed technical changes under the LM II.
* Land degradation: The continuing degradation, declining productivity and falling earnings from the land of
poorer and marginal farmers would be addressed on a priority basis. They were the least able to take advantage
of the technical support and incentives offered by the previous LM II project.
*   Water pollution: Water pollution due to farm intensification and concentration of pig, poultry and pig-



8
aquaculture production--the consequence of macroeconomic adjustment and opening of markets--would be
addressed by resolving water and other environmental conflicts to directly improve the quality of life of
beneficiaries and of society at large. It would also increase opportunities to supply sophisticated markets
willing to pay premium prices for certified food products (e.g., organic production). Support for the adoption of
Conservation Agreements and Terms of Adjustment of Conduct to resolve environmental conflicts associated
with water pollution from animal waste and other relevant polluteis, would help to achieve a more sustainable
management of natural resources.
*   Lack of opportunities to reach niche markets: Lack of opportunities for poor and marginal farmers, due to poor
access and low bargaining power, would be addressed through initiatives aimed at enabling them to associate
into viable groups, so as to achieve economies of scale and diversify into alternative products seeking niche
markets. Addressing this issue would allow poor and marginal farmers to obtain price differentials to help
offset declining incomes from their staple crops.
*   Lack of resources and technical information: Seed capital, technical assistance and information needed to
increase post-harvest value-added from agricultural products and ':0 facilitate certification of origin would be
provided to poorer and marginal farmers to help them take advantage of paths towards poverty reduction.
*   Integration of programs and policies at the local level: The limited and uncoordinated flow of resources
reaching the target area and population, and limited knowledge of the productive bases, would be addressed
through the adoption of a decentralized approach focused on decision-making at the local level with properly
trained decision-making bodies. The municipal and microcatchment participatory diagnostics and other
planning mechanisms have proven to be strategic instruments to integrate policies and programs and to increase
the effectiveness and impact of public resources available for poverty reduction and environmental management
at the local level.
*  Insufficient integration of land, water and conservation activities and programs: The broader, longer-term
environmental threats to land, water and biodiversity resources which if further neglected will negate any
shorter-term livelihood gains, would be addressed by piloting the preparation and initial implementation of
river basin sub-catchment plans (or watershed plans) using the project microcatchment plans as building blocks
and involving the broad spectrum of watershed stakeholders.
*   Fiscal Performance and Structural Reform: The State's efforts to further improve its fiscal performance, in
particular by improving effectiveness and efficiency of its public expenditures, would be supported by a
technical assistance program to review, inter alia, compliance with the benchmarks of its Federal Agreement,
undertake an assessment of the targeting mechanisms and impact of its social and safety net programs, while it
would also review its energy sector restructuring program now under implementation. Of even greater
importance would be the assistance to review the economic, legislative and institutional framework governing
water resources and sanitation that would complement efforts being financed under other Bank loans.
The project implementation strategy would derive from that of LM II and from those of the neighboring southern
states, but incorporate and further extend subsequent progress achieved by EPAGRI in targeting and outreach to the
rural poor. While during the LM II, targeting criteria responded particularly to soil erodability, the current criteria
have poverty as their driving force, with environmental degradation as a second priority. As in the case of the LM
II, the planning and implementation unit would be the microcatchment, capitalizing on existing organizations at the
local level. Training of both implementers and beneficiaries would be a strong instrument to achieve project
objectives; however, greater emphasis would be given to training on participatory methods and include members of
all decision-making bodies. The proposed project would seek to rehabilitate and improve the productive base of
rural producers; however, in contrast to the LM II, the proposed project would also include resources to increase
post-harvest value-added from agricultural production and reconversion of farming systems, as small-scale
producers would need to offer quality and specialized products to complement their relatively small-scale
production, seeking to obtain differentiated prices.
In consonance with this strategy, the proposed project would stress the need to achieve integrated environmental
soundness at farm, microcatchment and regional levels and, on a pilot basis, at watershed level. To that end, as part
of its strategy and whenever necessary, it would disseminate, promote and implement the scheme piloted by
FATMA, SDM and EPAGRI to resolve environmental conflicts at microcatchment, river sub-basin and basin levels
but strengthening partnerships with the processing industry. The proposed project would include a grant component
to partially assist beneficiary farmers to adopt environmentally sound agricultural practices. To the extent that these
practices would bring about off-farm public goods benefits, both small-scale and medium-scale farmers would also



9
receive grant financing but the latter at a much reduced rate. In contrast with its predecessor, the proposed project
would also include grant financing for the poorest beneficiaries to improve their housing and sanitation and to create
alternative sources of income, including the creation of new off-farm employment opportunities. The project would
act as a catalyst for other federal, state and/or municipal programs in support of sustainable development of Santa
Catarina's rural areas, particularly in poorer areas. It would stress participatory, demand-led planning. Priority
setting and decision-making would be in the hands of bodies which beneficiaries and other stakeholders outside
government would predominate. Implementation responsibilities and cost sharing would be entrusted as appropriate
to municipalities, microcatchments, community groups or individual beneficiaries.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The proposed project would be implemented over six years and has four components. It would support the Bank's
central CAS objective for Brazil of poverty reduction. Its goal would be to reduce poverty and improve living
conditions among small and marginal farmers, rural laborers and IP in the State of Santa Catarina.
Drawing from experience in rural poverty reduction projects associated with natural resources management, the
project incorporates well-defined targeting mechanisms (at municipal, microcatchment and beneficiary level) based
on a series of socioeconomic and environmental indicators; greater weight is given to indicators related to poverty.
The priority target group consists of rural poor with per capita net farm income of less than two minimum wages,
including those classified as "marginal" (with per capita net farm income of less than one minimum wage),
"transitional type 1" (with per capita net farm income of less than two minimum wages) and IP (Annex 2, Appendix
1). Due to the high concentration of the target population in certain areas of the State, the proposed project would
concentrate more implementation efforts in regions such as the Center (Planalto) and the far West. These regions
include a significant portion of those 500 microcatchments benefited under the LM II project and which may be
eligible for the proposed project. In these areas, the project would place special emphasis on benefiting the poorer
farmers with income generation activities and would also support subprojects on pollution abatement, natural
resources protection and improved land management, so as to ensure environmental soundness and compliance with
environmental legislation as a vehicle to obtain certified and safe products. The final draft Project Operational
Manual containing, inter alia, the project's organization, operation (including financial, procurement and
disbursement requirements) and technical strategy, and selection criteria for the selection of municipalities and
beneficiaries, was made available at Loan Negotiations and its formal approval will be a condition of Loan
Effectiveness.
(i) Institutional Development and Organization (US$17.9 million; 16.7% of total project cost)
An extensive training sub-component (4.3% of total project cost) would finance preparation of both implementers
and beneficiaries for behavioral changes and new modes of operation that are implicit in the new technical strategy.
Training in the principles and practice of participatory rural diagnosis, group formation and operation, participatory
planning and stakeholder monitoring would be complemented by appropriate practical or technical courses, such as
techniques for sustainable land management, product diversification and agro-processing. Course content, location
and duration would be matched to the needs of these different stakeholder categories and identified at the local level.
Definition of the training team within EPAGRI and the training structure and content of the training program for the
first six months of the project were reviewed by the appraisal mission. In all, about 92,000 stakeholders would be
trained, including small farmers, IP and rural workers and private sector extensionists. A sub-component for
environmental education (1.1% of total project cost) would boost stakeholder awareness regarding the need for,
and commitment to, addressing enviromnental problems to improve their rural livelihood. It would support
education efforts directed at helping to develop an environmentally conscious society and inspire personal and social
responsibility for the enviromnent throughout rural Santa Catarina. It would reach the target population, plus about
14,650 leaders. To allow schools within the benefiting microcatchment areas to comply with federal laws on
environmental teaching, 1,000 environmental teaching projects would also be financed.
A rural extension sub-component (5.6% of total project cost) would have as its main objective the promotion of
the project among the rural poor by providing information, motivating decision-making bodies about the project,
assisting group formation, assisting beneficiaries in preparing microcatchment and farm plans and assembling
community demands for social as well as technical and financial support. It would train and equip providers of



10
technical and social assistance at microcatchment, municipal and regional level.  Four hundred and forty
"facilitators," would be contracted and paid by the Microcatchment Association (MA) and support demand-led
participatory development planning and project implementation at community level. Existing technical and social
EPAGRI extensionists ("animators" at municipal level and technicians at regional level), would back up facilitators;
they would be current EPAGRI employees.    Facilitators would assist farmers in preparing about 880
microcatchment and 70,000 farm plans. An adaptive and social research sub-component (4.3% of total project
cost) would respond to specific technology adaptation and information needs arising from demand-led participatory
development programs, including specific studies needed to better address indigenous issues. About 340 technical
and socioeconomic adaptive research projects would be financed through a competitive process administered by a
Project Management Unit (PMU) at the state level, assisted by a group of eminent scientists as peer reviewers. This
sub-component would also finance the census at the municipal level, which will be the basis of the municipal
diagnostic, and the maps needed for the preparation of the microcLtchment development plans. A technical
assistance sub-component in support of the State structural adjustment (1.4% of total project cost) would
finance special studies and consultant services to assist the State in its structural adjustment efforts. Studies would
be administered by the PMU and coordinated by the Governor's Secretariat and cover: (i) evaluation of state poverty
reduction programs, including micro- and rural credit schemes and social inclusion schemes; and (ii) alternatives to
reform public water (including watershed management) and energy services. The results of the studies would be
submitted to the Bank no later than one year after Loan effectiveness.to discuss findings and the strategy for possible
dissemination of the studies' results. As part of its dialogue with the B3ank during the execution of the Project, the
Government would continue to exchange views with the Bank witli respect to its ongoing Fiscal Adjustment
Program.
With the exception of technical assistance for the structural adjustment sub-component (which would be executed by
the Governor's office) and the research sub-component to be executed by the PMU, the component would be
executed by EPAGRI, which, in addition to allocating its existing stsff, would make its state-level and regional
facilities available as bases for field operations under all components and for training. Implementation would be
coordinated by a training and education specialist and a research artd extension specialist, both seconded from
EPAGRI and based in the PMU.
(ii) Rural Investment (US$77.2million; 72.3% of total project cost)
The project's Rural Investment Fund (RIF) would operate as a special program under the existing State Rural
Development Fund (RDF). The latter operates under the incentive legislation enacted for LM II and is managed by
a unit under the Secretariat for Rural Development and Agriculture (SDA), with criteria set up by the State Rural
Development Council (Cederural). The RIF would be the instrument to facilitate the adoption of the project strategy
within the benefited microcatchment. As in its predecessor project, cost ceilings would be established per type of
beneficiary, microcatchment and type of activity to be promoted. To compensate poorer farmers for the shock of
macroeconomic adjustment measures and improve their livelihood, it would include social infrastructure matching
grants for poorer rural people, including farmers, IP and rural laborers. It would also provide matching grants to
individual target microcatchment dwellers individually or in groups to pilot new technologies and to adopt
innovative schemes and production systems to enable small-scale farmers to differentiate their products and
aggregate value to take advantage of niche markets. It would also include a set of incentives to induce all farmers
within benefiting microcatchments to address environmental conflicts, which will either generate off-farm public
goods or benefits that have long maturity periods. The grant would be the vehicle to partially share farmers' costs to
comply with envirormental legislation while at the same time achieving food security. The project would also
promote the adoption of "Terms of Adjustment of Conduct" to allow larmers to undertake compensatory measures
and to make the necessary adjustments over a reasonable period of time to comply with environmental legislation.
The fund contemplates three categories of grants: (i) those for home improvements such as piped water, sanitation
or waste disposal as well as minor structural improvements to housing (available only to poorer farmers, IP and rural
laborers residing in the microcatchment); (ii) those used for conservation and environmental purposes such as
reforestation, protection of water sources or schemes to increase bicdiversity (available to all farmers but with
differentiated contributions with preference to poorer farmers); and (iii) those for income generation, whether
through improvements to production systems, value-added schemes or job creation (available to poorer farmers and
landless laborers and to other farmers only when in association with at least 66% of the target population but with a
lower-cost share of grant contribution).



11
Use of grants would be demand-led, and a consequence of the microcatchment development plans, individual plans
and indigenous plans. Communities could also use grants to repair or upgrade critical stretches of rural roads or
undertake initiatives that would benefit groups of microcatchments or municipalities if identified to resolve critical
local constraints identified either in the microcatchment plans or under the environmental management component.
It would also fund any group environmental protection schemes that members may demand--e.g., to replant trees for
river bank protection. Grants supported under the Fund would also be available to MAs to contract technical
assistance for the preparation and implementation of microcatchment, individual and indigenous plans.
(iii) Environmental Management (US$3.8 million; 3.5% of total project cost)
A sub-component for watershed management (2.1% of total project cost) would expand the State's efforts to
integrate environmental and river basin management policies and laws. It would pilot the preparation and
implementation of three river basin sub-catchment plans, using project microcatchment plans as building blocks.
Selection criteria for the watersheds/sub-catchments (out of the 23 into which the State is divided) include the
importance of the habitats they contain, threats to biodiversity, their current under-representation among the existing
State parks and reserves system, poor water quality due to poorly managed pig waste or pesticide use, a high
concentration of the target group and the prior existence of local commitment to, or implementation capacity for,
environmental activities. One of the selected watersheds is the area with the highest concentration of pigs per square
kilometer in the State. The project would complement State efforts to develop and implement a system to better
regulate and control the expansion of the pig industry with full participation of all stakeholders. The two other
watersheds have significant biodiversity value, and hence their plans would be the basis for the identification of
ecological corridors. A sub-component to create ecological corridors and protected areas (1.4% of total project
cost) would oversee preparation of the regulations and the dissemination and application of the newly-enacted State
PA System law and the soon to be enacted "Lei do ICMS Ecol6gico" to which Santa Catarina is fully committed.
This would foster the creation of public and private PAs to be able to promote and develop the ecological corridors.
One existing state park would be consolidated. Promotion of new public and private PAs, as well as consolidation
of two ecological corridors, would begin.
Component implementation would be coordinated by the Santa Catarina SDM assisted by FATMA. They would
work with EPAGRI, NGOs, municipalities, stakeholder associations, the PMU and others as appropriate. An
environmental specialist assigned to the PMU would oversee and coordinate component implementation.
(iv) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 8.0 million; 7.5% of total project cost)
A sub-component for project management (2.7% of total project cost) would set up and operate the PMU at the
state level and in 14 subsidiary units at regional levels. Regional units would act as executive arms for the
stakeholder bodies responsible for participatory planning, decision-making and oversight of implementation at state,
regional, municipal and microcatchment levels (see Section C.4 below). Project monitoring, evaluation and the
distribution of findings would be supported under a sub-component for monitoring and evaluation (2.4% of total
project cost). A sub-component for community organization (2.4% of total project cost) would provide separate
resources for the creation and operation of all categories of stakeholder bodies. Given the project's decentralized
nature, an automated Management Information System (MIS) would be implemented under the project to enhance
the existing system developed under the LM II to integrate physical and financial data. It would be based on the
automated systems already implemented in neighboring states with similar projects, I. and would ensure timely
budgetary and expenditure information (to the Bank and other stakeholders). It would also incorporate internal
controls, records of project assets, accounting, procurement, auditing and means to automatically reconcile the
project's Special Account to conform with the Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(1995), the Bank's Operations Policy and Procedures 10.02 of July 1996 and revised financial management
standards as in OP/BP 10.02 of August 1997. The TORs for the development and the timetable for the
implementation of the MIS have already been agreed and are part of the agreed PMU Institutional Strengthening
Action Plan (see Appendix 1, Annex 6).
The PMU and the regional units were created by State Decree No. 3954 of January 30, 2002 with structure
satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU is directly under the State's SDA and its managers were appointed through State
Regulation No. 221 of March 5, 2002. The State and Rregional Units would be largely staffed by secondments from
implementing partner organizations within the Government, particularly SDA, EPAGRI, ICEPA, SDM and



12
FATMA. Technical assistance to be hired by ICEPA would be available to strengthen the capacity of the PMU.
Implementation of PMU and regional offices, full staffing and training in Bank procedures, and the Installation of
the MIS, satisfactory to the Bank, are part of the PMU Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (see Section E 4.1
below)included in the Side Letter from the Borrower to the Bank, dated March 26, 2002.
.  .idicative  % of   Bank-      % of
Component                     Category      Costs     Total   financing    Bank-
.  (ES$;M)          (USiMA     financing
1: Institutional Development/ Organization                   17.9      16.7      6.7        37.4
1.1 :Training.                                               4.6        4.3      2.6        56.5
1.2: Enviromnental Education                Institution      1.2        1.1      0.6        58.3
1.3: Rural Extension                         building        6.0        5.6       1.3       21.7
1.4: Adaptive & Social Research                              4.6        4.3      0.9        19.6
1.5: Technical Assistance for State Adjustment               1.5        1.4       1.2       80.0
Program
2: Rural Investmnent                         Physical        77.2      72.3      48.7       63.0
2.1: Social                                 (Civil           7.6        7.1      4.9        65.0
2.2: Environmental                           Works,          20.1       18.8     13.0       64.6
2.3: Economic                                Goods,          30.4      28.5      19.8       65.0
2.4: Technical Assistance                    Equipment       19.1       17.9     11.0       57.5
& Materials)
3: Environmental Management                                  3.8        3.5       2.3       60.5
3.1: Watershed Management                    Institution     2.3        2.1       1.5       65.2
3.2: Ecological Corridors and Protected Areas  building       1.5       1.4      0.8        53.3
4: Project Management, M&E                   Project         8.0        7.5      4.5        57.5
4.1: Project Management                      manage-         2.9        2.7       1.4       51.7
4.2: Monitoring and Evaluation                 ment          2.6        2.4       2.0       76.9
4.3: Community Organization                                  2.5        2.4       0.9       36.0
5: Front-End Fee                                             0.6                  0.6       100.0
Total                                                107.5     100.0     62.8       58.4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
The project would be closely aligned with current State and Federal Govermment policies and institutional
frameworks. No substantive changes would be needed. With project support, institutions would continue to
develop towards greater degrees of decentralization, delegation and stakeholder cost sharing to which Santa Catarina
is committed. The participatory development approach proposed is already in use and would be further refined.
The State Government gives high priority to the enactment of the envirounental laws and regulations that would be
promoted and applied under the project; limited precedents for application of similar approaches on the ground
come from the predecessor LM II project. Through the financing of special studies and consultancies, the project
would assist the State in key areas to further advance the structural reform efforts to which the State is fully
committed.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would bring economic and social benefits to its target population, the rural poor, by reducing rural
poverty and decreasing future vulnerability of the rural poor to external shocks. There would also be associated
enviromnental and institutional benefits. Incomes of 105,000 poor and marginal farmers and some 5,000 poor



13
indigenous people would increase and be stabilized through improved farm profitability resulting from: (i)
upgrading of their land management and other agronomic practices; (ii) diversification into more profitable crop and
livestock enterprises; and (iii) new job opportunities--particularly for women and young people--created in new
post-harvest processing and other rural enterprises.
Social and health benefits to this target group would include better health due to improved housing, sanitation and
reduced contamination of domestic water sources. Empowerment and social capital of the target group would be
increased through improved habits of community cooperation, greater representation in civil society and decision-
making, an increased sense of ownership of development processes and access to and control over a larger share of
public expenditures. The ability of target communities to withstand future shocks would thereby become stronger.
Additional economic benefits, some of which would also accrue to the target group, would come from
improvements to current environmental conditions in animal husbandry, which would contribute to improving food
security and also allow for certification of products, greater price differentials and more profitable foreign markets.
Institutional benefits would include improved methods of participatory operation and integration of Government
organizations, enhance accountability for programs and projects, as well as wider-ranging and more effective
partnerships between the public sector and organizations in the private and voluntary sectors. Further steps would
be taken towards decentralization and greater civil society participation in State Government development programs
and projects.
Environmental benefits would include improved water retention and aquifer recharge, combined with reduced soil
loss resulting from more sustainable land management; lower chemical and biological pollution of soil and water
within, and downstream of, project microcatchments; increased carbon sequestration in the form of organic soil
matter and forest trees; and reduced emissions of greenhouse gases from livestock enterprises. Further important
externalities would accrue from improved protection of biodiversity in five important habitat types within Brazil's
threatened Atlantic Forest ecosystem.
The target population consists of an estimated 105,000 small and marginal farmers' families and rural laborers and
about 5,000 indigenous peoples. This estimated population resides primarily in 880 microcatchments (an estimated
3.6 million hectares) out of Santa Catarina's 1,683 total microcatchments. Among this population, the priority
target group consists of rural poor with per capita net farm income of less than two minimum wages, including
those classified as "marginal" (with per capita net farm income of less than one minimum wage), "transitional type
1" (with per capita net farm income of less than two minimum wages) and IPs. Although the target group would be
the poorest segment of the population living in those areas (about 80,000 poor rural families including indigenous
families, i.e., 75% of families to be benefited under the project), the project would encourage the participation of all
members of the microcatchment, in particular for environmental activities. The project's direct beneficiaries are
estimated at approximately 105,000 rural families.
Targeting of project municipalities and microcatchments would be based on the application of specific criteria that
combine the following considerations: (a) social indicators and factors such as the concentration of small farmers
and IP, and (b) environmental status as represented by degradation of natural resources and threats to biodiversity
(see Annex 2, Appendix I on targeting). In the one-third of municipalities considered from the application of these
criteria to be the neediest, two-thirds of microcatchments would be eligible for assistance. In the middle third, half
the microcatchments would qualify. In the least needy third, only one-third of the microcatchments would qualify.
Municipalities, through their existing Rural Development Councils, would choose which of their individual
microcatchments to target using the specific criteria mentioned above. Once a microcatchment has been selected, all
local residents would be eligible to participate in the project through the MA, although support agencies would be
always required to focus the operation of the MA on the needs of poorer people.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements (see Annex 12 on Project Management Structure):
Project implementation would be the responsibility of the Santa Catarina SDA. In fulfilling these executive
responsibilities, SDA would be supported principally by SDM, FATMA, which is affiliated with SDM and
EPAGRI, and ICEPA, which is affiliated to SDA. The final drafts Subsidiary Agreements between SDA and these
institutions were provided at negotiations. Signature of the Subsidiary Agreements would be a condition of Loan



14
Effectiveness. A Cooperation Agreement would also be signed between SDA and FIJNAI to assist, when and as
needed, with project activities related to IP communities. Such Cooperation Agreement would need to be signed no
later than one year after Loan Effectiveness.
The project management structure would be decentralized, with execttive bodies at the state, regional, municipal
and microcatchment levels. Building on the experience of the LM II, it has been designed to maximize participation
and ownership of decision-making by the beneficiaries, combined with transfer of these responsibilities and project
accountability to the lowest practicable administrative levels. These aims would be achieved by creating a pyramid
of interlinked "deliberative" bodies in parallel with the executive ones, extending from state level through 14
operating regions to Santa Catarina's 293 municipalities, the 880 project microcatchments and eventually down to
the community level. Where similar deliberative bodies already exist--at state and municipal levels--the project's
specific deliberative bodies would be attached to them but with specific membership to ensure full representation of
the target beneficiaries. To ensure that development is demand-led, at least 50% of the participants in project
deliberative bodies at every level would be members of the target group or their representatives. Other members
would span remaining stakeholders in the participatory process - NGOs, labor unions, cooperatives, private firms,
government organizations involved in implementation and local political figures such as mayors. The project State
Deliberative Committee (CCE), and the Regional Deliberative Committees (CCR) were established as special
Committees under the Santa Catarina Rural Development Council, Cederural, by Resolution No.
00 1/2002/SDA/CDRURAL, of February 18, 2002.
Deliberative responsibilities. On a scale appropriate to their levels in the pyramid, deliberative bodies would set
project implementation policy and priorities, approve annual operational. plans and fund allocations, resolve conflicts
between stakeholders, approve sub-projects/grants, monitor and evaluate progress and approve implementation
reports. These stakeholder "deliberative" bodies at microcatchment, mumicipal, regional and state levels would also
be responsible for overseeing the focus of the project on poverty reduction through the correct application of
selection criteria at municipal and microcatchment levels. Proper focus at farm level would be monitored through
the adequate application of the selection criteria of the RIF.
Executive responsibilities. An executive chain of mainly government, mostly seconded, staff would also be formed.
Under the overall responsibility of SDA, the executive chain would service and support deliberative bodies in
fulfilling their responsibilities and in the implementation of the actions they demand. The executive structure would
echo the deliberative pyramid, with small executive units at state, regional and municipal levels (see Figure I in
Annex 12). At the lowest level, microcatchments would be assisted to hire their own external support assistance, but
these would still be trained and backstopped by executive units. The executive chain would also be responsible for
loan administration, project accounting, auditing and meeting the information and reporting requirements of the
Bank.
The PMU set up under the authority of the SDA would oversee, coordinate, administer and monitor the project. The
PMU have small departments dealing with technical management, finance, administration and procurement, and the
operation of the RIF. The PMU is staffed mainly by secondment from the partner executive organizations but
technical assistance is being hired through ICEPA to strengthen the capacity of the PMU. The PMU has the support
of a social scientist to assist and coordinate indigenous activities under the project. The executive branch would also
maintain small multi-institutional units comprised of teams seconded from partner executive organizations, one in
each of the 14 EPAGRI regional offices. EPAGRI's regional and municipal offices would serve as the project's
executive units. The project's executive structure was created by State Decree No. 3954 of January 30, 2002.
Activities to be implemented directly by the PMU in addition to project administration, would be agricultural
research, operation of the RIF, and the technical assistance sub-component in support of the State's structural
adjustment effort; the latter to be closely coordinate with the Governor's Secretariat.  Training, extension,
environmental education and community organization would be coordinated by EPAGRI. The environmental
management component would be implemented by SDM and FATMA. Independent technical, financial and
beneficiary auditing would be undertaken as part of the project's M&E structure (see description of M&E sub-
component in Annex 2).
At microcatchment level, MAs would be legally established and form development committees to represent their
members prior to receiving any financial support under the RIF. The MA committees would: (i) organize
participatory social, economic and environmental diagnoses with local communities; (ii) on the basis of these



15
findings and beneficiary demands, prepare a Microcatchment Development Plan which would include, inter alia, the
consolidated local demands for finance from the RIF; (iii) submit plans and funding demands to the municipal level;
(iv) oversee plan implementation; and (v) monitor and evaluate results. The existing Municipal Rural Development
Councils (CMDR), through Municipal Deliberative Committees - Cameras Setoriais de Microbacias (CCM) - to be
created, would select the microcatchments to be targeted by the project based on the information gathered at the
municipal diagnostics and using the project selection criteria.
CCM would be created prior to receiving any financial support from the RIF. Creation of a CCM would be a
requirement in the agreement to be signed between SDA and each municipality prior to initiate project works in
each municipality. The municipal project executive branch would assist in the formation of MAs as legal entities,
and consolidate microcatchment plans within the municipality; CCM would approve annual municipal plans, then
evaluate and, if appropriate, approve grants to a maximum of R$5,000. The regional executive branch would
consolidate municipal plans and fund requirements within that region; CCRs would approve regional annual
operating plans, oversee their implementation and approve grant applications from R$5,000 to R$50,000. The PMU
would consolidate funding requests coming from regions and forward them to the CCE. The latter would approve
grant applications above R$50,000 and would be the ultimate policy- and priority-setting body for the project. It
would monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the project's executive units and management.
The cycle of project operations would be as follows (see Annexes 2 and 12).
*   Project promotion among all stakeholders at all levels. This would be a continuing process, and it would
include dissemination of information on progress and results being achieved.
*   Municipal diagnosis and division of microcatchments: Municipal division of microcatchments would be based
on the municipal census to be carried out by SDA, assisted by EPAGRI, using the methodology being piloted
by EPAGRI in 22 municipalities.
*   Selection of microcatchments and formation of MAs: Microcatchments would be selected by the CCM,
applying project selection criteria and using the information generated by the municipal census and existing
social and environmental data.
*   Formation of the MA: Building on existing associations within the microcatchments, the MA would be formed,
members trained and a facilitator contracted by MAs. The legal status of the MA would be established;
however, this activity might need additional time to be consolidated.
*   Microcatchment diagnosis would follow, guided by the facilitator and consisting of participatory appraisal
following EPAGRI's guidance and involving all local communities and stakeholders with emphasis on the
target group.
*   Microcatchment development plans would be prepared next, again under the responsibility of the MA and
supported by the facilitator, who would draw on help from municipal extensionists or regional subject matter
specialists as necessary. Participatory methods would generate group or individual plans on productive, social
or environmental themes, giving priority to the needs of the target group.
*   Plan approval and financing would be in the first instance the responsibility of the MA. Approved
Microcatchment Plans would be consolidated successively at municipal, regional and state levels by staff at the
respective executive branches. Plans and the financial requirements for the RIF would be approved by the
deliberative bodies at municipal, regional and state levels with increasing delegated authority by the RIF.
*   Implementation of sub-projects would be overseen by the MAs, again with support from the facilitator and
municipal/regional project staff. Training, exchange visits between farmers and other means of building skills
and social capital would continue.
*   Monitoring and evaluation would follow a detailed M&E system to be designed prior to project start-up.
Facilitators would contribute progress reports with the formats and frequency required, which would be
aggregated by project staff up to higher levels. Participation of the beneficiaries in M&E would be maximized:
they would be provided with feedback and share in decisions on any necessary mid-course corrections.
Consolidated M&E reports would be submitted to the Bank. Independent ex-ante, mid-term and ex-post
evaluations would be contracted by the PMU.



16
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following options were considered but rejected in designing the project.
Continuation of the LM II project focus and approach. This option was rejected based on the post-evaluation of
the LM II project and because Santa Catarina's development priorities have shifted from a focus simply on
maximizing the land area under more sustainable practices, towards addressing in parallel the rising incidence of
rural poverty particularly among the smallest farmers.
A scaled-down continuation of the LM II approach or an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). Both options were
considered as responses to Bank concerns during the 1999-2000 period about Santa Catarina's tight fiscal situation,
doubts over creditworthiness and possible difficulty in raising counterpart funds. They were rejected because of the
favorable impact on the fiscal situation of State civil service reforms and privatization. An APL, conceived as
having a learning phase of two to three years, was furthermore considered as redundant because of progress made in
the meantime in the 22 pilot microcatchments to refnte the participalory methods of LM II and improve their
outreach to the rural poor.
Separation of poverty reduction from natural resources investments. This approach was rejected because of the
close connections among unsustainable agricultural practices, rural poverty and environmental degradation. To
separate environmental investments would risk ignoring threats to the longer-term sustainability of project efforts to
alleviate rural poverty. It would also be an inadequate Bank response to the commitments made by the Federal and
State Governments to policies and legal measures for closer integration of the management and conservation of
natural resources.
Credit funding for the target group. Matching grants were chosen as the funding vehicle to alleviate poverty
because members of the target group are too economically fragile to have access to the alternative, rural credit, and
are not creditworthy. Furthermore, grant funds would in many cases be used for social as well as economic
purposes - e.g., to improve housing, sanitation and access roads or t:o build social capital through support by
facilitators for MAs. In addition, the funds transferred for environmental activities would generate considerable
public goods or externalities such as reduced pollution, conservation of biodiversity or reductions in the rural
exodus. The costs of achieving these beneficial effects should be shared with society and not borne entirely by the
target group. It was considered inequitable to use credit and hence require cost recovery for project-induced
changes and to benefit the poorer rural population.



17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                      Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
*   Land management practices         Land Management I Parana
(including soil and water         Project (3018-BR)               HS              HS
conservation)
Land Management II Santa
Catarina Project (3160-BR)       S              HS
Land Management III Sao
Paulo (4238 -BR)                 S               S
*   Community-based rural development  Rural Poverty and NRM
Project-Parand (4060-BR)         S               S
Rural Poverty Alleviation
Projects:
Bahia (3917-BR)                  S               S
Ceara (3918-BR)                  S               S
Pernambuco (4122-BR)             S               S
Sergipe (3919-BR)                S               S
*   Strengthen environmental institutions  NEP I Project (3173-BR)     S               S
NEP II Project                   S               S
*   Investments and Institutional     Water Sector Modernization       S               S
Strengthening                     II (4292-BR)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Experience from all of the above and other Bank-funded projects which support natural resources management in
the context of rural development, in particular the experience gained in Santa Catarina with the highly successful
LM II Project. The design responds to the following lessons, which are fully consistent with the LM II and its
predecessor, the Parana Land Management I projects.
*   Civil society participation is crucial for any program  to introduce more sustainable natural resource
managementpractices. The project would involve stakeholders to a greater extent than LM lI in priority-setting,
design and implementation. Close voluntary associations would be created between individual beneficiaries
and their communities on the ground, between these beneficiary associations and government support
organizations, and the private and voluntary sectors would be incorporated into these stakeholder coalitions to
bring complementary skills and resources.
*   Clear targeting mechanisms. Verifiable and objective criteria that reflect the central and dual objective of the
project--poverty alleviation and environmental considerations--can foster transparency, minimize political
interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project resources reach the poorest areas. The project
would have poverty reduction as the most important criterion for project intervention, while recognizing the
close interdependency between depletion of natural resources and poverty.



18
*   Responsibilities for implementation should be entrusted to the lowest possible levels to maximize the
commitments to success of individual and organizational stakeholders. The stratified deliberative bodies
proposed, reaching down to the level of the microcatchment and individual communities, would further entrust
decision-making and responsibilities for implementation.
   Extensive orientation and practical training are needed, both to change stakeholders' perception of the
concepts and practices of participation and to build their awareness of new approaches and techniques for
sustainable resource management. A substantial orientation, training and public awareness campaign would be
the first step in project implementation.
*   The microcatchment and its residents, considered together, consi*itute the most convenient basic unit for
planning programs. This feature would be retained from previous projects, with strengthened mechanisms to
ensure involvement of the poorest residents in the microcatchment.
*   Farmers will only adopt improved practices for land management within their microcatchments if these
changes bring early financial benefits. Technical extensionists would focus their advice on profitable
technologies; visits by farmers to see profitable farming practices in application by others would be an
important part of field extension programs; farmer participatory R&D programs would ensure that profitability
would be prominent among evaluation criteria in the search for improved technologies.
*   Government commitment--to provide financing, human resources and a facilitating legalframework--is crucial
to success. Santa Catarina has been preparing the project for four years, committing its own resources and
within these limits continuing to improve implementation strategies and procedures.  Successive State
administrations as well as the mayors of many municipalities remain committed to the project approach. The
Legislature unanimously approved the authorization for the State to accept Bank funds on November 28, 2001.
*   Governments should be prepared to share the costs of changed land management with land users, especially
where change brings substantial off-farm public goods benefits or farmers 'financial benefits would be long
deferred. The RIF has been designed in response to this lesson.
   Government commitment needs to be complemented by skillea' project management and constructive
supervision support from the Bank, creative and flexible handling of implementation problems are often
necessary. On the Govermnent side, many of the key individuals who successfully implemented LM II are
involved in the design of the present project and are expected to take leading roles in its implementation. This
team will be complemented with consultants to be hired in specialized areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Santa Catarina maintained a strong commitment to the successful implementation of LM II
through several changes of administration and in the SDA. The present project is seen as a step towards eventual
coverage of all of the State's 1,683 microcatchments and enjoys equally high Government priority. In 1995 the
State received Federal Government approval to seek Bank support for an LM II follow-up project with a total cost of
US$107 million. Local preparation began in 1998. However, the State's fiscal position in the late 1990s did not
allow the launching of a new project upon completion of LM II in October, 1999. It was not until the end of August
2001 that the project was reinserted in the Bank's pipeline. Despite the resulting loss of continuity with LM II,
Santa Catarina nonetheless initiated small-scale pilot exercises, particularly those led by the field implementation
organized by EPAGRI, to continue to adapt the LM II participatory arrangements to respond more effectively to
environmental concerns and to the needs of the poorest rural people. Preparation now incorporates the results of a
participatory process that has involved some 2,000 potential beneficiaries, plus other private stakeholders, NGOs
and Govermnent organizations. Legal authorization to borrow US$62.8 million from the World Bank has been
requested by the State Secretariats of Agriculture and Finance; it was endorsed by the State Governor on October 4,
2001 and passed to the State legislature on October 9, 2001. The Legislature unanimously approved it on
November 28, 2001.
5. Value-added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has long been the principal external lender supporting Brazil's programs to address environmental and
rural poverty issues. Both themes are combined in the present project. It would be one of several interventions in
Brazil aimed at the Bank's central strategic commitment to poverty reduction. It would be convergent with the
strategic recommendations of the recent Rural Poverty Report, which flags small-farm intensification, growth of



19
commercial agricultural opportunities, rural non-farm development, reduction of out-migration and design of
economic safety nets as priorities for poverty reduction. The project would support means to integrate the
management of water resources with river basin management as provided for in recent Federal laws, as well as
closer integration of natural resource management and protection. It would leverage local counterpart financing,
especially stakeholder and municipal contributions. Finally, it would continue to reinforce the progress made under
LM II and ensure that through future State administrations there is continuity of support of poverty reduction,
environmental management and institutional effectiveness in these fields.
E: Summary of Project Analysis
1. Economic (see Annex 4 for detailed analysis)
Economic evaluation methodology:
[xl Cost benefit      [ I Cost effectiveness
Estimation of economic benefits. As project investments will be demand-driven, precise forecasts of how project
resources would be applied by the beneficiaries are not feasible. Drawing on the experience under LM II,
productivity levels for staple crops would be expected to increase in a range of 20 to 35%.
The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) has been estimated in 19%. The economic benefits estimated are
primarily associated with increased agricultural production and farmers income. Additionally, the IERR takes into
account the proposed project's contribution to regulating atmospheric gases & elemental cycles. This estimate is
conservative, since it does not take into account the benefits accruing from reduced soil run-off and erosion.
Furthermore, the analysis did not capture "without project" productivity losses (project benefits) due to declining
soil fertility. Benefits derived from many poverty reduction and income generating investments included in the
costs were not calculated (e.g., housing and infrastructure improvements, sanitation, and reduced contamination of
domestic water sources).
2. Financial
Estimation of financial benefits. Eleven farm models, five processing facility models and seven microcatchment-
area models have been identified to represent some working hypothesis of likely beneficiary choices taken in
response to the proposed project activities and incentives towards the adoption of conservation agricultural practices
and PAs investments. The expected adoption of conservation practices would reduce soil degradation, minimizing
changes in soil composition and structure and maintaining organic soil cover. The quantifiable benefits at the farm
level would include: (i) reduced on-farm costs (savings in time, labor and mechanization); and (ii) increased soil
fertility, resulting in long-term yield increase, reduced yield variations and greater food security. These benefits
stemming from better Natural Resources Management (NRM) are generally considered by farmers in deciding
whether they will change their production practices.
Farmers' net income would increase under the project from 50% to more than 300%, depending on the farmer's
initial conditions, farm size, cropping pattern and survival strategies. For the poorer farmers, i.e., those earning one
minimum salary or less, on-farm activities promoted by the project, besides contributing to improved NRM, would
generate significant production increases, mainly for self consumption. Across all models estimated, the Financial
Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) ranges from 30% to greater than 50%.
Fiscal Impact: Most of the project incremental production is subject to the ICMS 12% tax. Sales of goods and
services and income tax revenues from incremental profits from on and off-farm production and service activities in
the project area are also expected to be significant, as is the case of the strong export poultry/pig production chains
where several taxes and income transfers to other sectors are evident. Maintenance costs of rural roads will be
reduced significantly by better erosion control, falling by as much as 80%, according to previous estimates. For
simplicity, the fiscal analysis only considered the expected 12% ICMS value of the incremental production. Its
present value--using 12% as discount rate--is equivalent to the present value of the foreseen fiscal project costs.
Consequently, the consideration of the other sources of fiscal benefits, it can be concluded that the project would
also have a positive effect over the public accounts.



20
3. Technical
The LM II technical strategy of promoting practices that maximize soil protection from rainfall, contribute to
improved water infiltration by enhancing soil structure and handle remaining rainfall runoff safely, taking the
microcatchment into account in the planning and implementation unit, would be maintained. Basic technology for
diversification and post-harvest improvements to the production systems of small farmers is quite well known and
already promoted by EPAGRI. Adaptation to the circumstances of marginal farmers and IPs would continue under
ongoing and incremental R&D programs.
4. Institutional
4.1. Executing agencies:
The project, like its predecessor, would continue to be the responsibility of SDA, supported by SDM, FATMA,
EPAGRI and ICEPA. The PMU has been staffed with experts with substantial experience with Bank financed
Projects. In addition, the technical capacity of the main executing agencies is adequate to implement the project;
knowledge of Bank financial and procurement procedures wwere updated and enhanced. Implementation of the
agreed Institutional Strengthening Action Plan, mainly to build up the fnancial and procurement capacity of PMU,
SDA and all other executing agencies is been implemented satisfactory. It consists mainly of a training program and
the development of an automated MIS-integrated system. It also include additional up-dated training courses, and
the provision of short-term specialized consultancy during the project's life, as needed.
*   Training. The training package was built on the work initiated under the LM II. It would involve over 90,000
people and contains training ranging from farmer visits and learning-by-doing, to classroom courses and public
presentations. Overall, it aims to change stakeholders' behavior, whether traditional "givers" or "recipients" of
conventional types of development support, as well as providing them with the necessary skills, so that they can
operate effectively in a participatory, demand-led mode. It would also include training in Bank financial and
procurement procedures for PMU and staff of all implementing agencies during the first year of the project.
Detailed monitoring of EPAGRI's progress in meeting this challenge and tight management standards would be
designed and adhered to through implementation.
*   Targeting. Targeting criteria to decide the proportion of microcatchments to receive project support in each
municipality, and the subsequent selection of those microcatchments, depend on a wide range of data, some of
which would be assembled progressively, as work on different municipalities advances. This methodology and
modus operandi were built substantially on the successful experience of the LM II; project criteria have
eliminated the subjective part of the criteria adopted in the earlier project. EPAGRI would be required to
oversee this process and guide selection by CCMs. Monitoring of EPAGRI's and CCM's performance would
be part of the project management system designed to track these steps of implementation, ensure transparency
and control possible distortion due to political or other pressures.
4.2 Project management:
The project management structure builds on the successful experience of the LM II. It imposes complex and
demanding tasks on the PMU at State and regional levels (see Annex 12). However, to facilitate this task, the
project relies on a very experienced PMU staff, and on a strong, early dissemination and training program. In
addition, management responsibilities and operational procedures at all levels (state, regional, municipal, and
microcatchment), as well as among implementing agencies, are part of the Operational Manual. It includes, among
others, criteria and application procedures for selection of municipalities, microcatchments and the RIF, the project's
annual planning and budget cycle, loan administration and accounting, procurement procedures and the indicators,
techniques and responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation. The Operational Manual was presented to the Bank at
Loan Negotiations, it will be approved prior to Loan Effectiveness. The PMU and the regional units were created
by State Decree on January 30, 2002. The PMU is staffed with competent experts, a number of whom had
substantial managerial, technical and financial experience implementing the LM II. Initial preparation of the PMU's
management team and staff to be placed in its regional affiliates would focus on effective project dissemination,
monitoring and coordination of the interlocking project activities. The need to build enduring habits of cooperation



21
between government organizations accustomed to operating with little reference to each other and to forgo links
with broader civil society would be stressed and carefully monitored during project implementation.
4.3 Procurement and financial management:
Procurement and financial management arrangements have been reviewed by Bank specialists and, considered to be
satisfactory to initiate project implementation. In addition, the agreed PMU Institutional Strengthening Action Plan
is being satisfactorily implemented. Such Action Plan is described in a letter from the State Government to the
Bank dated March 26, 2002 (See Annex 6).
The PMU will be responsible for providing technical leadership and for procurement, disbursement and special
account keeping. It incorporates staff with experience in financial, procurement and disbursement matters. The
format and content of the Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) have been agreed between the PMU and the Bank.
They will be produced, on a transitional basis, from the existing system and ledgers. However, the PMU would
contract out the design, and thereafter would maintain and operate an adequate automated MIS. TORs for the
design of the systems have already been agreed. The agreed timetable for the implementation of this system, which
is part of the Institutional Strengthening mentioned above, envisions that from the second FMR and onwards, they
will be automatically generated by the PMU's automated Financial Management system to be put in place under the
project
5. Environmental      Environmental Category: B
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for envirommental assessment and EMP (including consultation and disclosure)
and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project was designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Bank's umbrella policy on
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). On balance, the project would be expected to produce largely positive or
neutral project impacts. Despite these anticipated impacts, submission of an EA and respective EMP was
considered prudent to ensure conformity with the aforementioned Bank policy. The borrower submitted the final
draft EA in December 2001. This draft was reviewed by the LCSES Quality Assurance Team (QAT), which noted
that "the project (if implemented successfully) will be highly positive from an environmental and social standpoint."
Project activities having potential environmental impacts would mostly be those financed by the RIF. As mentioned
above, impacts of the majority would be positive or neutral--e.g., from improved soil and water conservation,
replanting of riparian forests, water source protection, domestic sanitation and improved handling of pig waste.
Impacts of any misdirected support for agricultural diversification, agro-processing, aquaculture or rehabilitation of
small rural roads could, however, be negative. Strict environmental evaluation procedures and environmental
licensing mechanisms, as well as proposing mitigation measures, are built in the management of the Fund (see para.
5.2 below).
The final EA and respective EMP were submitted by the borrower in December 2001 and, upon QAT review, sent to
the Infoshop in Washington. For details on national consultation and disclosure of EA and EMP, see para. 5.4
below.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP includes the following main features which are described below: (i) environmental screening, evaluation,
approval and monitoring procedures for sub-projects submitted to the RIF; (ii) definition of responsibility for the
EA of sub-projects and respective institutional arrangements; and (iii) action plan for strengthening EA capacity
through the extensive training of project staff and key members of municipal administrations and other rural
intermediaries.
Mainstreaming of EA procedures. Mitigation measures would be integrated into the screening, evaluation, approval
and monitoring procedures for sub-projects submitted to the RIF. Requirements have been included in the Project
Operational Manual. Proposals would be classified as Category I if no adverse impacts are foreseen and hence no
mitigation measures are necessary, Category 2 if low impacts are anticipated and Category 3 if they are likely to



22
have moderate or significant environmental impacts. For Category 2 sub-projects, environmental issues and related
mitigation measures would require detailed description. These would be incorporated into the project design before
the sub-project could be submitted to the municipal deliberative body for approval. Category 3 sub-projects would
require an environmental assessment study and mitigation proposals to be included in the submission to municipal
bodies. An Environmental License could also be required from FATMRA for Category 3 sub-projects, such as those
proposing the implementation of small agro-industries or aquaculture systems. A list of 25 illustrative types of sub-
projects is categorized according to this scheme in the borrower's draft EA. Category 3 sub-projects above
US$20,000 would be post-review by the Bank as part of its semi-annual supervision.
Responsibilityfor EA and institutional arrangements. Proposed sub-projects would be categorized by the extension
"facilitators" who support MAs. Facilitators would advise municipal IPMU offices accordingly; these municipal
PMU staff would be accountable for final environmental review before submitting proposals to municipal
deliberative bodies.
Strengthening EA capacity. All 440 microcatchment facilitators, PM%U staff and key members of municipal
administrations and other rural intermediaries would receive extensive training in environmental issues and
procedures under the project's training component. Environmental requirements and procedures for sub-projects
financed by the RIF or from other sources would also be widely publiciz-d among the target group and members of
deliberative bodies at municipal, regional and state levels.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of Environmental Assessment:
Date of receipt of final EA draft: December 10, 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA report on the
environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms of consultation that
were used and which groups were consulted.
Local preparation since 1998 has involved the participation of some 2,000 potential beneficiaries and other private
stakeholders, indigenous representatives, NGOs, universities, local government and the intended implementing
agencies. Consultations have reviewed environmental safeguards and operational procedures. During the final
preparation stage (in December 2001), upon completion of the draft EA and EMP, the Government organized three
public hearings, which included the participation of 103 representatives from the target group and other relevant
government and non-government organizations. These consultations were aimed at discussing the project with
stakeholders, including the proposed environment management plan. It took place in three of the State's regions
(western, central and southern). Invitations for public participation at these events were published in 18 different
newspapers circulated at the local, regional and state level. In addition, individual invitation letters were sent to key
institutional representatives from the target beneficiaries (producers and :rural works organizations and federations,
etc.), municipal associations, credit institutions, universities and Enviro:nmental NGOs. In addition, the EA and
EMP document is available to the public through three public libraries of the State: Environmental Management
Foundation (FATMA), SDM and EPAGRI.
5.5. What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the environment?
Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Positive environmental impacts are a basic objective of the project; the monitoring and evaluation system would
incorporate specific means to measure impacts. For the environmental monitoring and participatory impact
evaluation, the following output and impact indicators would be measvred and supported under the M&E Sub-
component (see more details in Annexes I and 2): improvement of water quality in assisted microcatchments
(including around 12 parameters to be measured systematically/foitnightly in pilot microcatchments and
groundwater sampling stations/wells); improvement of natural resource management practices in all 880
microcatchments; about 1,680 development staff trained and operating in the project, including the aforementioned
training in environmental issues and procedures; two ecological corridors in process of implementation; 880
microcatchment plans and three pilot watershed plans developed and implemented; 2,000 km of riparian forest
replanted; and 11,000 pig waste treatment systems implemented. In add;ition to water quality, the aforementioned
systematic monitoring of six pilot microcatchments would include the following social and environmental



23
indicators: (i) environmental aspects: vegetation cover, pesticide use reduction, soil-water content, adoption of
agricultural conservation practices by farmers; (ii) socioeconomic aspects: effective participation and empowerment
of communities in the project-related decision-making process, farmers' perception of environmental issues,
improvement in family living conditions, financial and socioeconomic situation; and (iii) additional qualitative and
quantitative parameters to compute the economic value of external impacts of natural resources management
activities, such as the value of increased CO2 stored, reduced sedimentation, reduced pesticide runoff and other
environmental impacts on downstream users.
6. Social
6.1 Key social issues and planned social development outcomes (see Annex 11)
The poor rural families who are the project's priority target group earn less than one minimum salary ("marginal"
beneficiaries) or less than two minimum salaries ("transition type 1" beneficiaries), in terms of net on-farm income,
and make their livelihoods both from agricultural and non-agricultural activities. They include almost the entire
population of ethnic minorities who live in rural areas. Social analysis (see in Annex 11 a summary of rural poverty
in Santa Catarina and Annex 13 on IP) and widespread stakeholder consultation over four years of preparation,
involving some 2,000 potential beneficiaries plus a full range of other project stakeholders, have characterized the
specific constraints and opportunities facing this target group that would be addressed to alleviate their poverty.
Crucial to success is the need to give beneficiaries the means, individually and collectively, to express their wants
and to gain an equitable response from the development process that is proposed. This must lead eventually to
project ownership and durability of the social structure that is created. Such empowerment implies building social
capital among the poor, without which they would be unable to exploit the opportunities for the sustainable
increases in production, income diversification, job creation, better living conditions and resource conservation that
the project would offer.
Various social issues or obstacles to empowerment would be addressed, which between them maintain the status
quo. They include lack of confidence, apathy and ignorance of opportunities on the side of beneficiaries; and the
customs of paternalism, subordination and self-seeking among more privileged outsiders. Change would be
introduced through the project's highly participatory approach. Prior publicity, an extensive training program and
the creation of "deliberative" stakeholder bodies would be the principal means by which the project would alter
social perception and behavior and build social capital, and thus contain social risks to project outcomes.
Particular attention will be given to the empowerment of IPs, who are represented by three ethnic groups, i.e., the
Kaingang, Xokleng and Guarani peoples. With the objective of maximizing effective indigenous participation in the
project, and to ensure compliance with the Bank OP 4.20, an Indigenous Peoples Strategy was developed during
project preparation (see Annex 13). It includes: (i) major concerns and perceived needs of the aforementioned
ethnic groups; (ii) how they will participate and be involved in project implementation; and (iii) how the project will
support their transition to more sustainable livelihoods through access to the various project activities. The Strategy
was reviewed by the Appraisal mission and subsequently reviewed and endorsed on February 8, 2002 by the LCSES
QAT. The Strategy's provisions and requirements have been included in the draft Project Operational Manual.
6.2 Stakeholder participation in the project
During implementation, stakeholder participation and ownership of the project would be based on four design
features. First, there would be an extensive preliminary program of dissemination of the project, explaining its aims,
rules, strategies and procedures to all strata of rural society.  Potential beneficiaries as well as potential
implementers, partners and stakeholders in the private and voluntary sectors would all be covered. Second,
intensive training, motivation and mobilization of stakeholders would start before and continue throughout the
project: content, location and duration of training sessions, courses and events would be matched to the type of
recipient. Third, there would be four levels of project decision-making or approval, ranging from the MA through
municipal, regional and state levels: at every level beneficiaries or their representatives would comprise the
majority on decision-making bodies (see Annex 12). Fourth, the operational procedures of the project and the
support provided to beneficiaries to apply them would be oriented so as to ensure that decisions could only be taken
communally and on the basis of democratic consensus.



24
6.3 Collaboration with NGOs and other organizations in civil society
The prolonged series of consultative workshops that were the basis of project preparation involved a wide range of
NGOs, private sector and other organizations, many of which had already participated in the implementation of LM
II. These organizations would continue to be involved in implemertation, both through their representation on
"deliberative" bodies and through providing contracted or commercial services in support of different aspects of
project implementation.
6.4 Institutional arrangements to ensure that the project achieves its social development outcomes (see Annex 12)
Pre-publicity would include information to raise awareness among the target group of the project's aims,
opportunities and procedures. Training, setting up of the "deliberative" bodies at microcatchments, municipal and
regional levels and operations of these bodies would all be backstopped and supervised by prepared project staff (see
Annex 12 on Project Management). These would range from specialists who would be part of the PMU's
management team, to facilitators--supported by municipal social extensionists--who would help beneficiary
communities to set up and operate their MAs, follow the criteria for use of the RIF and comply with other
requirements of the Project Operational Manual. The monitoring and evaluation indicators used by project
management would include those selected to track social progress. During the preparation of the Indigenous
Peoples Strategy, particular attention was given to clearly identify and design how IP will participate and be
involved during the project.
6.5 Monitoring of social development outcomes
Monitoring indicators would assess progress in institutional strengthening as well as social and environmental
development. Beneficiary assessments would be the primary tool and would be conducted regularly in all
microcatchments. These would be complemented by ex-ante, mid-term and ex-post impact evaluations (more details
are described in Annex 2, M&E Sub-component).
7. Participatory Approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The rural poor, who would be the project's primary beneficiaries, are marginal farmers or other rural dwellers with
net on-farm income of less than two minimum monthly wages. They include those families classified as "marginal"
or "perifericos" (with per capita net farm income of less than one minimum wage) and "economic transitional 1"
(with per capita net farm income of less than two minimum wages), as well as most of the rural ethnic minorities
(IPs) and landless laborers. Secondary beneficiaries, classified as "economic transition type 2", are those with net
on-farm income between one and two minimum wages. To reach this target group the project would supplement the
participatory approaches of LM IL, which effectively promoted improved land management but did not secure the
commitment of poorer farmers and soon weakened once the project ended, with new elements. The main thrust of
the changes would be to move from a consultative mode to one in which the target group would be empowered to
drive the development process based on its own needs and demands. Thus the beneficiaries or their representatives
would comprise more than 50% of the membership of the four types of "deliberative" bodies, described above, that
are charged with deciding project actions at microcatchment, municipal, regional or state levels. Both training and
implementation support for beneficiary stakeholders would emphasize the mechanisms, entitlements, obligations
and skills implicit in fully participatory development. Project operational procedures and the rules of the RIF would
be shaped to require a participatory mode of operation as a precondition for access to benefits. The training of
project support staff would prepare and motivate them to work in a participatory mode.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders in the project would include organizations within the state and municipal governments; the
"deliberative" bodies at all four levels of decision-making; intermediary NGOs, such as those concerned with ethnic,
poverty, gender or environmental issues; rural workers' unions; cooperatives; commercial firms involved in the



25
meat, dairy agro industries; and organizations such as universities and special-interest lobbying groups. Many such
stakeholders have been involved in project design during the prolonged consultation process and have been heard or
informed on issues of importance to them. Topics of this dialogue are recorded in project files. Dialogue has
covered targeting needs, beneficiary representation mechanisms for decision-making, requirements for technical
assistance, sustainability and needs for a holistic approach and social control of the project agenda. Mechanisms to
maintain this dialogue during project implementation and profit from the inputs of private or voluntary sector
organizations with contributions to make, as well as to recruit new stakeholders along the way, now need attention.
The forms of participation of different stakeholder categories, from information sharing to consultation,
collaboration and planned involvement in management, are summarized in the table below.
Stakeholder Category         Identification/      Implementation           Operation
Preparation
Primary Beneficiaries                Collab             Collab/ Mgmt          Collab/ Mgmt
Microcatchment Associations      Collab / Cons / Is  Collab /Cons /Is/ Mgmt  Collab / Cons /Is /Mgmt
Municipalities                       Cons / Is         Cons/ Is / Collab     Cons / Is / Collab
State Government                  Cons/Is/ Collab     Cons / Is / Collab     Cons / Is / Collab
NGOs                                 Cons / Is        Cons / Is / Collab     Cons / Is / Collab
Private firms and other groups      Cons / Is         Cons / Is / Collab     Cons / Is /Collab
Is = Information sharing; Cons= Consultation; Collab= Collaboration; MgmI= Management
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project would improve beneficiaries' income through greater productivity of their existing systems,
diversification of enterprises and job creation. Together, these would increase returns to their family labor and the
limited cash resources they can afford to commit to agriculture. These gains would, for the most part, be achieved
relatively soon. Evidence from LM II suggests that when these conditions are met, farmers continue to apply the
improved technologies on which gains are based--i.e., the economic gains and the external benefits that derive from
land management changes are sustained. The empowerment of the target group, its increased social capital and
much greater influence over access to and use of development support, would reinforce economic and
environmental sustainability. The gains would, however, be exposed to risks arising from further declines in the
overall profitability of farming in Santa Catarina. This threat to sustainability would be minimized as part of the
project's technical strategy as the project would seek to assist farmers to produce quality and distinct products and
access market niches that could be ready to pay premium prices for food security and quality and distinct products.
The Rural Investment Fund would be instrumental in inducing these changes.
Institutional sustainability is most often threatened by weakening government commitment to projects, leading to
irregular counterpart funding, mistargeting of resources, political interference and removal of key staff. All
evidence from LM II as well as the State Government's vigorous participatory preparation are against such a
scenario. Participatory procedures are already being quite widely piloted, beneficiaries are involved and awaiting
expansion of efforts and political will remains strong. Risks that the project will be affected by the lack of
sustainability of Government or other stakeholder institutions are therefore considered low.



26
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Ainnex 1):
Risk                           Risk            Risk Mitigation Measure
Rating  __._
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Project fails to reach target population                 S    - Rigorous targeting criteria used as a basis of
rnicrocatchment prioritization and selection.
- Extensive publicity campaigns to ensure that
target population has ample opportunities to be well
informed about the project's objectives,
cipportunities and procedures.
- Representatives of target population evenly
represented at every level of decision-making
('deliberative" stakeholder bodies).
Failure to sustain political commitment after elections (including  S  -:Rural poverty reduction and environmental
regular provision of counterpart funds, maintenance of the    protection are state and national priorities (not only
agreed number of project extensionists, deployment of EPAGRI  a specific government priority). The Bank has
extensionists undertaken as agreed)                           verified the high priority and interest of all sides of
the political spectrum in project objectives. In
addition, the LM II Project kept its priority during
the entire project cycle, although it was
implemented under three different administrations
and about 12 different Secretaries of Agriculture.
Moreover, the proposed project, like its
predecessor, has very strong local government
support and these officials are not up for election
this year. The task team is already working
actively with local governments to build on their
support.
Improved concept and practices developed under the project not  S  -P?roject concept design emphasizes extensive
widely adopted by stakeholders and technical assistance           training  of  farmers,  municipal  leaders,
providers and project staff do not adopt project methodology      technicians and project management staff.
Intensive training of about 300 project
technicians has already started and is a
prerequisite for start-up of field interventions
scheduled for July 2002.
Civil society is not fully aware of the relevance of environmental  M
problems to sustain livelihoods                               - An extensive environmental education program is
foreseen under the project, involving over 90,000
people.
Failure to pass/approve two key environmental laws at the State  M
Legislature                                                   -TFhere is a high probability that the laws will be
enacted. They have already been approved by all
State Legislature commissions, a key prerequisite
for final approval.
Insufficient institutional capacity, particularly of environmental  M
agency, leading to poor implementation of the environmental   -,'DM and FATMA have been very effective during
management component                                          project preparation. During implementation, they
will promote the participation of NGOs as an
important source of implementation services (e.g.,
through co-management of protected areas).



27
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Long-term commitment by target population                     M       - Highly participatory approach and extensive
training of target population leading to an
increase in community empowerment and
social capital.
Irregular flow of counterpart funds and failure to sustain political  M  -See above mitigation measure associated
commitment after elections                                           with risk of "failure to sustain political
commitment after elections."
Stakeholders do not share the project's objectives and participatory  S  -See above mitigation measure associated
management approaches and participate in implementation               with risk of "improved concept and practices
processes; and massive uptake by beneficiaries of economically,       developed under the project not widely
socially and environmentally sustainable practices for natural        adopted by stakeholders."
resource management, income and livelihood improvements
Maintenance of the agreed number of project extensionists     M       -See above mitigation measure associated
with risk of "failure to sustain political
commitment after elections."
Environmental laws are passed by the State Legislature
M       -There is a high probability that the laws will
be enacted. They have already been approved
by all State Legislature commissions, a key
prerequisite for final approval.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Timing. Due to earlier problems of creditworthiness, the project has entered the Bank's pipeline close to the end of
the mandate of Santa Catarina's present administration. While Government commitment to the project has been
sustained for many years and is not expected to waiver, it is politically desirable to have the Loan signed while the
present administration remains in office.' The Government and the Bank have therefore accelerated their
preparation efforts to the maximum to contain threats of possible slippage.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no existing or envisaged controversial features of this project.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions:
*   Adoption of Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank;
*   Signing of Project Implementation Agreements between the Government, through SDA, and EPAGRI,
FATMA and ICEPA
The proposed processing timetable includes a tight schedule (see Annex 7) to enable the loan to be signed before
April 30, 2002, the deadline for the current administration to sign any new commitment, due to provisions of the
Fiscal Responsibility Law. Otherwise loan signature would be possible only after January 2003.



28
2. Loan Covenants:
*   Signing Cooperation Loan Agreement with FUNAI, at the latest, one year after Loan Effectiveness
*   Submit annual Project Implementation Reports satisfactory to the Bank
*   Submit to the Bank, by September 30 each year, the proposed Amnual Operational Plan for the following year
acceptable to the Bank, and 30 days after the passage of the budgetUry law, the final Plan
*   Submit to the Bank, not later than one year after effectiveness, the results of the studies in support to the State
Structural Adjustment sub-component
*   Implement the PMU Institutional Stregthening Action Plan in accordance with its terms.
H. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies
John .wud, P.orm                    Vhwd TbRas
Ic"Mh144=9o              Sectnr hbmggdUet Utit                     r
B       y * a y m and  y &        E     2nG       = -  UomaY lxaement Wt
Devekvn                LzUi Amadca 4lld f Ceibbeaa Rngion



29
Brazil
State of Santa Catarina
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:           Sector/Country Reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Rural poverty in the State of
Santa Catarina reduced by:
(i) Support for Government   Incidence of poverty reduced  Poverty assessments from  Political commitment to alleviate
efforts to integrate        in 70% of the 880            ex-ante, mid-term and ex-  poverty and to address
environmental and social    microcatchments assisted by  post evaluation reports   environmental degradation is
sustainability into development  the project             based on State and National  maintained (demonstrated by
and poverty strategies to                               statistics (IBGE), project  regular provision of counterpart
alleviate poverty and improve                            M&E and structured        funds, maintenance of the agreed
rural livelihoods;                                       interviews                number of project extensionists
and minimal transfers of PMU
staff)
(ii) Enhanced local governance  Project participative    Project Management        Capacity for community
and community participation in  mechanisms operating at all  Reports (PMRs) and M&E  mobilization is assured;
decision-making;             levels (community,          reports                   reluctance of communities and
microcatchment, municipal,                             project staff to take participatory
regional and state)                                    action can be overcome;
resistance of farmers to technical
change is minimal
(iii) Reduced degradation and  Two key state environmental  Official gazette and PMRs  Environmental laws are
improved protection of the  laws regulated and                                     passed/approved by the State
State's natural resources;  disseminated throughout the                            Legislature
State
One State Park consolidated  PMRs and M&E reports     Institutional capacity of
and two ecological corridors                           environmental institutions is
designed and their                                     adequate to implement these
implementation initiated                              project activities
Demonstration models for    PMRs and M&E reports       Stakeholders accept project
integrated watershed and                               objectives and participate in
microcatchment management                             implementation processes
developed and validated in
three pilot watersheds
(iv) Improved incomes and   Natural resource management           .                Massive uptake by beneficiaries
living conditions for the rural  practices improved in all 880  Ex-ante, Mld-term and Ex-  of economically, socially and
poor.                        microcatchments assisted by  PMRs and M&E reports     environmentally sustainable
tic rojact                                             practices for natural resource
management, income and
Improved family incomes                                livelihood improvements



30
Social capital increased in                          Resources of Rural Development
assisted microcatchments                             Fund are consistently available
Cost-price relations remain
Net incomes of rural families                        favorable
increased
Macroeconomic shocks or natural
disasters do not reverse gains in
poverty alleviation and income
generation
Project Development         Outcome/Impact              Indicators:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Support institutional and   1,100 appropriately trained and                      The State devises the means to
organizational development to  equipped development staff                        mobilize the necessary personnel
promote income improvement  deployed by the project                              within limits on public sector
and sustainable use of natural                                                   recruitment imposed by the
resources, based on the                                                          Federal Legislation (Lei de
planning and management of                              PMRs, M&E,               Responsabilidade Fiscal)
microcatchments.
Support social, productive and  50,000 individual or group                       Extensionists operating, trained to
environmental investment    investment plans prepared                            motivate, plan and supervise
projects identified in                                                           investments
microcatchment development
plans.                                                                           Resources of RIF are consistently
available
Reverse land and water      Management plans for three                           No major institutional constraints
degradation in              watersheds (sub-catchments)                          encountered in the implementing
microcatchments and protect  prepared                                            organizations
the State's natural resources in
watersheds, protected areas and  Two ecological corridors in                     Conflicts between economic and
ecological corridors.       process of implementation and                         environmental interests are
one State Park consolidated                           overcome
External impact of NRM
activities analyzed on a pilot
basis (and integrated into the
economic analysis) and
compensation mechanisms
identified
Coordinated efforts by the
implementing organizations
Strengthen the State's capacity  Project implementation
for the management,         arrangements in operation                             Successful inter-organizational
monitoring and evaluation of                                                     integration
sustainable rural development  70% of families participate in
projects.                   microcatchment events                                 Resources needed for
implementation at disposal of
implementers
Target group receptive



31
Output from each            Output Indicators:                                   (from Output to Objectives)
component:
Component 1: Institutional
Development and
Organization
Sub-component 1.1: Training
Output 1.1.1 Stakeholders   92,300 stakeholders trained,  PMRs, M&E, mid-term and  Project does not fail to reach
trained to promote economic,  including 75,000 small   ex-post evaluations      intended target population
social and environmental    farmers, IP and rural workers,
sustainability at           14,650 municipal leaders,                            EPAGRI training centers
microcatchment level.       1,681 technicians, 100 local                         available on the dates required
instructors, 30 project
management staff, 293                                Losses of trained technicians are
administrative staff, and 580                        low
municipal road machine
operators
Sub-component 1.2:          92,850 participants in
Environmental Education     environmental education    PMRs, M&E, mid-term and   Civil society aware of the
events, including 11,000    ex-post evaluations      relevance of environmental
Output 1.2.1 Farmers and    members of enviromnental                             problems to sustainable
fishermen aware of, and     working groups, 14,650                              livelihoods
committed to, solving       municipal leaders and 75,000
environmental problems as part producers/family farmers                          Stakeholders apply improved
of strategies for livelihood                                                     concepts and practices
development.
Output 1.2.2 Municipal and  1,000 schools recruited and  PMRs, M&E, mid-term and
State schools in the project area  1,000 environmental teaching  ex-post evaluations
develop environmental       projects are implemented
education, in accord with
Federal Government laws.
1,103 extension agents trained                       Extensionists recruited and
Sub-component 1.3: Rural    and operating in the project  PMRs, M&E, mid-term and  deployed as planned
Extension                   area, comprising 440        ex-post evaluations
facilitators at community                            No political interference in their
Output 1.3.1 Technicians and  /microcatchment level, plus                        work, and political commitment
social extensionists trained and  586 municipal-level, 70                        sustained after elections
giving effective support to  regional and 7 state-level staff
rural development at all levels.                                                 No loss of motivation or
Project Operational Manual                           resignations due to inadequate
published and updated twice                          salaries or administrative
during disbursement                                  problems
880 microcatchment and                               Extensionist training is adequate
70,000 individual farm plans                         for the tasks required
prepared
Effective links between extension
105,000 rural families assisted                      and research in the identification
(including small farmers, IP                         of problems and diffusion of
and rural workers)                                   results



32
Sub-component 1.4: Adaptive
and Social Research
Output 1.4.1 Adaptive and    336 adaptive research trials  PMRs, M&E,, interim and  Existence of competent
social research to overcome  carried out                 ex-post evaluations       organizations for the work
specific technical, economic,                                                      required
social or environmental
constraints in project       Agricultural census of 250
microcatchments.             municipalities
OutVut 1.4.2 Socio-          880 microcatchments mapped  PMRs, M&E, interim and
environmental mapping of the                             ex-post evaluations
880 project microcatchments to  Successfully complete and
support planning for         discuss results of studies on:
sustainable development.     - poverty programs targeting
and impact
Sub-comWonent 154:           - micro-finance program     PMRs, M&E reports         Incumbent and new Governments
Technical Assistance         evaluation                                            interested in further reforms
Adjusttnent                  - CELESC Restructuring
Successfully complete and
discuss 4 studies on water                             Incumbent and new Governments
sector                                                interested in further reforms
Regular flow of counterpart funds
2,350 individual or group-
operated projects set up to                            Project protected from political
increase value-added of     PMRs, M&E                  interference
agricultural products
Component 2: Rural                                                                 Financing that is provided
Investment                   50,000 families applying                               conforms to norms for
improved land management                               environmental protection and is
Output 2.1.1 Investments     practices                                              fully integrated with the project
identified and carried out to                                                       procedures for environmental
support economic, social and  40,000 families applying                              assessment
environmental sustainability of  improved production systems
rural livelihoods.
15,000 rural homes improved
and equipped with basic
sanitation
11,100 farmers disposing of
pig waste satisfactorily
30,000 families using protected
water sources
Replanting of 2,000 km of
riparian gallery forest
Institutional capacity of



33
environmental institutions is
adequate to implement these
3 watershed/sub-catchment                             project activities
Component 3:                plans in implementation
Environmental Management                                                           Stakeholders receptive to
watershed management concept
Sub-component 3.1:                                                                 and participate in the process
Watershed Management
Output 3.1.1 Sub-catchment
plans prepared and in process                                                      Institutional capacity of
of implementation.           Two ecological corridors under                        environmental institutions is
implementation                                        adequate to implement these
PMRs, M&E, mid-term and   project activities
Sub-component 3.2:                                       ex-post evaluations
Ecological Corridors and     One existing State Park                               Stakeholders share the ecological
Protected Areas              consolidated (Tabuleiro)                              corridors concept and participate
in the process
Output 3.2.1 Ecological
corridors identified and in                                                        SEUC and ICMS Environmental
process of establishment.    Regulations to establish a                            laws are passed/approved by the
single coherent SEUC and                              State Legislature
Output 3.2.2 Protected areas  provide incentives (ICMS   PMRs, mid-term and ex-
consolidated or in process of  Ecol6gico) released and   post evaluations
consolidation.              disseminated
Official gazette and PMRs
Legislation being applied state-
Output 3.2.3 Norms for a State  wide                     PMRs, M&E, mid-term and
System of Protected Areas                                ex-post evaluations
(SEUC) are released and
economic incentives
(Ecological VAT) for
stakeholder participation
created.
Applications for establishment of
Component 4: Project        Project management units at                            legal status are approved by the
Management, Monitoring      state and regional levels and                          competent authorities
and Evaluation              stakeholder bodies at state,  Legal documentation
municipal and microcatchment
Sub-component 4.1: Project   levels legally established and  PMRs, M&E, evaluations
Management                   operating
Outrut 4.1.1 Project
management structure set up,
working and able to integrate                                                      Stakeholders willing to participate
project actions with those of  M&E system set up and results                       in M&E activities
other programs for sustainable  published and disseminated by
rural development.          the project                  Approved M&E manual
Sub-component 4.2:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Output 4.2.1 Project progress                                                      Approvals are given by the
and impacts monitored and    Stakeholder bodies at state,                          competent legal authorities



34
evaluated; results distributed at  regional and microcatchment
local, state and national levels.  levels legally established and  Legal documentation
in operation
Sub-component 4.3:                                      PMRs, M&E, mid-term and
Community Organization                                  ex-post evaluations
Output 4.3.1 Mechanisms for
participatory project
management set up and
operating.
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each    Project Reports:         (from Components to Outputs)
components:                 component)
1. Institutional Development  1. US$ 17.9 million      PMRs (Bi-anmual) and WB   Regular/timely flow of
and Organization                                      bi-annual Supervision     counterpart funds
missions
2. Rural Investment         2. US$ 77.2 million                                  Stakeholders share the project
objectives and participatory
3. Environmental Management  3. US$ 3.8 million                                  management approaches and
participate in implementation
4. Project Management,                                                           processes
Monitoring and Evaluation  4. US$ 8.0 million
Massive uptake by beneficiaries
5. Front end Fee            5. US$ 0.6 million                                   of economically, socially and
environmentally sustainable
practices for natural resource
management, income and
livelihood improvements
Maintenance of the agreed
number of project extensionists
Environmental laws are passed by
the State Legislature
Long-term commitment by target
population



35
Brazil
Santa Catarina
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Project Overview
The project would support poverty reduction-the Bank's central CAS objective for Brazil. Its goal would be to
improve living conditions among small-scale and marginal farmers, IP, and other marginalized rural groups in Santa
Catarina. It would be implemented over six years and has four main components:
1. Institutional Development and Organization
Subcomponent 1.1: Training
Subcomponent 1.2: Environmental Education
Subcomponent 1.3: Rural Extension
Subcomponent 1.4: Adaptive and Social Research
Subcomponent 1.5: Technical Assistance for Structural Adjustment
2. Rural Investment
3. Environmental Management
Subcomponent 3.1: Watershed Management
Subcomponent 3.2: Ecological Corridors and Protected Areas
4. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Subcomponent 4.1: Project Management
Subcomponent 4.2: Monitoring and Evaluation
Subcomponent 4.3: Community Organization
5. Front End Fee
The Project would have a total cost of US$107.5 million, of which the Bank would finance about 58.4%. It would
be implemented using a highly participatory, demand-led approach under the executive responsibility of the SDA (to
which a small PMU would be attached). Project interventions would be concentrated in the areas considered most
impoverished and facing the most critical environmental problems and in microcatchments with high concentrations
of marginalized rural people. It would involve 880 microcatchments (about half of the microcatchments in the
State), cover 3.6 million hectares of land, and reach 105,000 farm families. Areas subject to conservation planning
or receiving environmental protection would total about 850,000 hectares. Appendix 1 summarizes key numerical
targets of the project.
Project components have been designed so that, acting separately or in synergy, they would address the following
underlying causes of the increasing rural poverty in Santa Catarina:
* Rural poverty: Through the application of clear criteria for targeting the rural poor, and a highly participatory
and decentralized diagnosis at the local and even the farm level, the project would concentrate its efforts on
addressing the main causes of rural poverty.
* Low quality of life of the rural poor: The impacts on family health from substandard housing, lack of sanitation,
and polluted domestic water supplies would be addressed through grants for the rural poor.
* Insufficient knowledge ofparticipatory methods by technical staff. Project implementers and beneficiaries would
be exposed to effective participatory methods, which are essential to achieve good governance. A strong training
program proved to be an important tool to induce much-needed technical changes under the LM II.
* Land degradation: Addressing continuing degradation, declining productivity, and falling earnings from the
land of poor and marginal farmers would be a priority of the project. These farmers were the least able to take
advantage of the technical support and incentives offered by the previous LM II project.
* Water pollution: Water pollution due to farm intensification and the increasing concentration of pig, poultry and



36
pig-aquaculture production (a result of macroeconomic adjustment and more open markets) would be addressed
by resolving water and other environmental conflicts to directly iriprove quality of life for beneficiaries and
society at large. It will also increase opportunities to supply sophisticated markets willing to pay premium prices
for certified food products (e.g., organic). Support for the adoption of Conservation Agreements and Terms of
Adjustment of Conduct to resolve environmental conflicts associated with water pollution from animal waste and
other relevant polluters will help to achieve a more sustainable management of natural resources.
* Lack of opportunities to reach niche markets: Lack of market opportunities for poor and marginalized farmers
due to poor access and weak bargaining power will be addressed through initiatives aimed at helping them form
viable producer associations. Such groups can achieve greater economies of scale and diversify into alternative
products, thereby helping them develop or access niche markets. Addressing this issue will allow poor and
marginalized farmers to earn price premiums and greater profit margins that could help offset declining incomes
from their staple crops.
* Lack of resources and technical information: Seed capital, technical assistance, and information needed to
increase value-added from agricultural products and to facilitate certification of origin would be provided to
poorer and more marginal farmers to help put them on the path toward poverty reduction.
* Poor integration of programs and policies at the local level: The limited and uncoordinated flow of resources
reaching the target area and population, and the limited knowledge of the productive base, would be addressed
through adoption of a decentralized approach focused on local decision-making by properly trained decision-
making bodies. Municipal and microcatchment participatory diagnostics and other planning mechanisms have
proven to be strategic instruments for integrating policies and programs and increasing the effectiveness and
impact of public resources available for poverty reduction and environmental management at the local level.
* Insufficient integration of land, water and conservation activities and programs: The broader, longer-term
enviromnental threats to land, water and biodiversity resources which if further neglected will negate short-term
livelihood gains, would be addressed by piloting the preparation and initial implementation of river basin sub-
catchment plans (or watershed plans) using the project microcatchment plans as building blocks and involving a
broad spectrum of watershed stakeholders.
* Monitoring and evaluation would follow a detailed M&E system to be designed prior to project start-up.
Facilitators would contribute progress reports with the formats and frequency required, which would be
aggregated by project staff up to higher levels. Participation of the beneficiaries in M&E would be maximized:
they would be provided with feedback and share in decisions on any necessary mid-course corrections.
Consolidated M&E reports would be submitted to the Bank. Independent ex-ante, mid-term and ex-post
evaluations would be contracted by the PMU.
The project implementation strategy would derive mainly from that of ILM II, also taking into account the lessons
learned during implementation of the Parana Land Management I, Sao Paulo Land Management III and Parand
Poverty Reduction projects. It incorporates and further extends subsequent progress achieved by EPAGRI in
targeting and outreach to the rural poor. While the targeting criteria for LM II emphasized soil erodability, poverty
is the main targeting factor for the current project, with environmental (legradation as a second priority. As in the
case of LM II, the planning and implementation unit for the project will be the microcatchment, thereby capitalizing
on existing organizations at the local level. Training of both implementers and beneficiaries will be a strong tool for
achieving project objectives; however, greater emphasis will be given to training on participatory methods and to
including members of all decision-making bodies. The proposed project would seek to rehabilitate and improve the
productive base of rural producers. However, in contrast with the LM [1, the proposed project would also include
resources to increase post-harvest value-added from agricultural production as well as reconversion of farming
systems since small-scale producers will need to offer high quality, specialized products that can command price
premiums if they are to make their relatively small-scale production economically viable.
In accordance with this overall strategy, the proposed project would stress the need to achieve integrated
environmentally sound production practices at the farm, microcatchment and regional levels and, on a pilot basis, at
the watershed level. To that end, and as part of its strategy, the project would disseminate, promote and implement
the scheme piloted by FATMA, SDM and EPAGRI to resolve environmental conflicts at the microcatchment, river
sub-basin and basin levels, and strengthen partnerships with the processing industry. It would support education
efforts directed at developing environmental awareness and promoting personal responsibility for the environment
throughout rural Santa Catarina. In addition, under the Environmental Management Component, the project would
adopt an integrated management strategy to address ecologic, social and economic objectives at the microcatchment



37
and watershed levels. Based on the successful experiences and results of the LM II Project, key stakeholders at the
local level would identify the building blocks needed to facilitate planning and implementation of watershed or
basin management policies. Because the microcatchment is the natural fundamental unit for this process, this
strategy would be the basis for implementing the State and National Water Resource Laws. The project would
support the creation and development (or strengthening) of watershed committees, watershed plans, ecological
corridors and protected areas, integrating natural resources management and conservation actions with those planned
and implemented at the microcatchment level in three selected pilot watersheds. The project would also support
government efforts to "harmonize" existing environmental and water resources laws and policies, including
establishment of a single coherent system of protected areas, the definition of the legal and institutional framework
governing the water resources sector in the State and the provision of incentives to increase the role of
municipalities and the private sector in protecting important endangered ecosystems of the State.
The proposed project would also include a grant component to help farmers adopt environmentally sound
agricultural practices in support of the above-mentioned strategy. To the extent that these practices would bring
about off-farm public goods benefits, other farmers would also receive grant financing but at a much reduced rate.
In contrast with its predecessor, the proposed project would also include grant financing for the poorest beneficiaries
to improve their housing and sanitation and to create alternative sources of income, including new off-farm
employment opportunities. The project would act as a catalyst for other federal, state and/or municipal programs in
support of sustainable development of Santa Catarina's rural areas. It would stress participatory, demand-led
planning. Priority setting and decision-making would be in the hands of entities in which beneficiaries and other
stakeholders outside government would predominate. Implementation responsibilities and cost sharing would be
entrusted as appropriate to the municipalities, microcatchments, community groups or individual beneficiaries.
The approach would be underpinned by major strengthening and expansion of mechanisms for participatory
development, to ensure that the demands of the rural poor dominate decision-making and implementation. The final
draft Operational Manual containing the project organization, operation and technical strategy was made available at
Loan Negotiations and will be approved as a condition for Loan Effectiveness.
Detailed Descriptions:
1. Institutional Development and Organization (US$17.9 million; 16.7% of total project cost)
Sub-component: Training (US$4.6 million; 4.3% of totalproject cost)
Through this sub-component the project would prepare both project implementers and beneficiaries for behavioral
changes and new modes of operation that are implicit in the participatory, demand-led approach that would be used
for project implementation. Training in the principles and practice of rural diagnosis, group formation and
operation, participatory planning and stakeholder monitoring would be complemented by appropriate practical or
technical courses. The latter would be demand-driven as identified in the microcatchment development plans and
would cover, for instance, (a) techniques for sustainable land management; (b) product diversification, processing,
or marketing; (c) sustainable improvements to social infrastructure or habitation; and (d) environmental protection.
Training would in all cases focus on preparation for actions at the microcatchment level-either by the beneficiaries
themselves or by project personnel who would facilitate and support beneficiary efforts. The duration and content
of courses would be tailored to the category of recipient-management staff, stakeholder associations, extensionists
in frontline or supporting roles, beneficiary farmers, etc. Training would be supplemented by an annual managers'
seminar to review progress and learning visits by farmers to other microcatchments either in Santa Catarina or in
another State that is implementing projects with similar approaches.
Farmers, indigenous peoples and rural laborers would be the most numerous trainees under the sub-component:
10,000 would benefit in year 1, followed by 27,000 in year 2; between 12,000 and 14,000 would benefit annually
thereafter, giving an accumulated total of 75,000. Local leaders from the community, microcatchment or municipal
level would be given two-day orientation courses during years I and 2; a total of 14,650 would benefit. In the first
year, 100 instructors and 30 executive unit managers would be trained. Training of about 1,680 technicians-mostly
agricultural or social, public, and private extensionists and community facilitators-would be spread through the
first three years. In addition, about 580 municipal road machine operators would be trained from years 2 through 5.
In all, about 92,300 stakeholders would be trained. The composition of the training team within EPAGRI and the



38
terms of reference for the training of the first six months of the project were reviewed and agreed at Appraisal.
Further details of course duration, subjects and phasing are included in project files.
In addition, necessary updates of the project's Operational Manual during project implementation and the publishing
of a manual on Good Practices in Road Rehabilitation, based on the experiences of the LM II, would be financed
under this sub-component. The latter would guide the training of municipal road machine operators and possible
road rehabilitation works to be financed under the RIF.
The sub-component, as well as environmental education (see below), would be implemented by EPAGRI using its
regional and municipal training facilities. Teaching would be by its cwn or contracted out either to individual
trainers or to specialized organizations and/or NGOs with proven experience in this field. Planning, coordination
and supervision would be the responsibility of a training and education specialist in the PMU, acting with training
officers located in each of the 14 regions.
Sub-component: Environmental Education (US$1.2 million; 1.2% of totalproject cost)
Environmental education would increase stakeholder awareness of the need to address environmental problems as a
way to improve their rural livelihood. It would support education efforts throughout rural Santa Catarina directed at
developing environmental awareness and promoting a sense of personal responsibility toward the environment.
Environmental Education (EE) under the project is defined by the following principles and characteristics: (i)
incorporates a human element in exploring environmental problems and their solutions; (ii) promotes knowledge
about social and ecological systems within and beyond microcatchments benefited under the project; (iii) analyzes
environmental problems, their resolution and the prevention of new problems; and (iv) promotes a change in
attitudes and encourages necessary commitments to build a sustainable society.
Environmental education activities would be implemented at the rural school and microcatchment levels and in
close coordination with activities in other project sub-components, in particular the Training, Rural Extension, Rural
Investment and Environmental Management sub-components. The worlc with rural schools would target around
1,000 schools in the project area (mostly located within or around the project's targeted microcatchments). It would
facilitate and promote awareness, appreciation, knowledge and stewardship of natural resources. It would also
support partnerships with the departments of education at the municipal and state levels and would provide technical
assistance to build skills that enhance the awareness and abilities of Loth teachers and students to achieve the
objectives and principles of the sub-components. Specifically, EE activities would include: (i) development and
dissemination of classroom-ready teaching aids and materials, such as the EE teacher's guide (10,000 copies) and EE
syllabus (190,000 copies); (ii) presentation of 50 "environmental awards" to schools that improve their
environmental education efforts; (iii) organization of 586 workshops with school staff (two per municipality);
organization of 130 seminars with school parents and 130 field trips and outdoor workshops for primary and high
school students; (iv) technical assistance to support the preparation of l,E projects in the target schools; and (v)
support to EE school group formation to enhance the abilities of teachers and students in problem solving,
leadership, decision-making and cooperation.
To achieve the aforementioned sub-component objectives at the microcatchment level, the project would implement
a series of EE capacity building and technical assistance activities with communities through a programmatic
approach. They would include: (i) organization of courses and workshops that would be tailored to the needs of
different stakeholder groups, distributed over the whole disbursement period, reaching 75,000 farming or fishing
families, 11,000 members of environmental working groups (farmers' family members and other microcatchment
citizens), 14,650 local leaders, 1,000 indigenous peoples and 1,680 technicians (EPAGRI animators,
microcatchment facilitators, municipal technicians);' (ii) establishment of partnerships with governmental and non-
governmental institutions to undertake joint EE activities; (iii) woik with microcatchment and watershed
communities in the preparation of EE materials; and (iv) technical assistance to communities within
' Environmental and water laws and regulations, as well as principles, norms and procedures for environmental
classification and clearance of sub-projects financed by the RIF would also be explained. Moreover, in exploring
environmental problems and their solutions, course content would consider environmental solutions not only from
the scientific perspective, but also from the historical, political, economic and cultural perspective.



39
microcatchments to support the preparation of EE projects. Details of course content, duration and phasing have
been reviewed at Appraisal.
Sub-component: Rural Extension (US 6.0 million; 5.6% of totalproject cost)
Rural extension would be a central project activity. Its main role would be to promote the project among the rural
poor by providing information, assisting group formation, helping beneficiaries prepare microcatchment and farm
plans, assembling community demands for social as well as technical and financial support arising from those plans
and helping with implementation at the community level. They would be the beneficiaries' primary source of
advice and support on social, environmental and technical matters. Extensionists would be trained by specialists to
prepare them for these multiple tasks. By the second year of implementation, there would be about 440 facilitators
operating at the community level directly assisting MAs. They would be employed by the MAs, which would be
eligible for grant funding from the RIF. Alternatively, facilitator costs may be met by municipalities, NGOs or
private funding. The Fund would support extensionist costs on a decreasing scale, contributing 100% of the cost
during the first year of the project, but only 40% by the end of the project. After the project, MAs would be
expected to finance the full cost of extension at the microcatchment level either through their own means or through
alternative financing sources. Facilitators would each assist two microcatchments and would be based within one of
them. They would start their work in one microcatchment with substantive support by the animator, and normally
would only initiate work on a second microcatchment during their second year in the field. The project would
provide initial and in-service training as well as transportation to ensure needed mobility.
Extensionists, termed as "animators," and subject matter specialists, would back up the above-mentioned facilitators
and be based at the municipal and regional levels. They would either be from the EPAGRI cadre or be hired by the
municipalities with their own funds. About three-quarters of municipalities now employ their own extensionists; as
decentralization continues even further under the influence of the project, this proportion of municipal extensionists
is expected to rise substantially.
Overall, the extension structure would consist of:
*   State level-a project extension coordinator, who would be one member of the PMU.
*   Regional level-14 regional coordinators and 56 subject matter specialists, totaling 70 regional project staff.
*   Municipal level-586 extensionists, comprising one technical and one social extensionist per municipality.
*   Microcatchment level-440 facilitators, who would be financed by the project and hired by the MAs.
In addition to relying extensively on redeployment of the existing EPAGRI extension labor force in line with the
project objectives and priority project areas, the sub-component would operate out of EPAGRI's existing state and
regional offices. Consistent with national policies for decentralization, municipalities would be encouraged to
assume as much as possible of the incremental costs of filling gaps in the "animator" grade of extensionists, based at
the municipal level. Technical assistance to farmers is expected to be complemented by about 490 public- and
private-sector technicians to be trained by the project. There reportedly is an abundant supply of young graduates or
degree-holders in agriculture available for project recruiting.
By full development, the sub-component would support 105,000 families (including farmers, IPs, and rural laborers)
distributed through some 1,800 rural communities. With its assistance, sustainable development plans focusing on
poverty reduction would be prepared for all 880 microcatchments, incorporating 70,000 individual farm plans.
Execution of this sub-component would be the responsibility of EPAGRI through the project extension and research
coordinator, who would be a member of the PMU. He or she would coordinate the work programs of senior
extensionists and subject-matter specialists based in existing EPAGR1 regional offices, which would oversee and
support interactions of facilitators with microcatchment associations on the ground. Municipal senior extensionists
would assemble the microcatchment plans prepared and approved by the MAs for submission to municipal (or
where appropriate, regional) deliberative stakeholder bodies for their approval. Once approved, the same extension
chain would assist communities and individuals with implementation.



40
Sub-component: Adaptive and Social Research (US$4.6 million; 4.3%, of totalproject cost)
Research would underpin technical and social change among the target group by filling key information gaps.
Technical and socioeconomic research topics would respond directly to needs that arise from demand-led
development plans originating with the full participation of beneficiaries. Technology constraints and opportunities
were identified during project preparation. A technology gap analysis is available in project files.
In particular, research under the sub-component would include:
*   Preparation of the microcatchment maps, which are essential for the preparation of microcatchment diagnoses
and plans.
*   Municipal agricultural censuses.
*   Technical and socioeconomic studies to identify constraints affecting the target groups that are amenable to
research-based solutions.
*   Finance research on studies of farning and environmental issues aimed at developing profitable, sustainable
and environmentally acceptable improvements.
*   Diversification and marketing studies to orient individual and collective income-enhancing projects by the
target group.
*   Dissemination of research results through farmer adaptive trials, dernonstrations, meetings and publications.
*   Monitoring of technology change by producers and resulting econornic and environmental impacts.
Technical and socioeconomic research would be financed through a competitive process. Only pre-qualified
organizations of known competence would be invited to bid; a list of qialified organizations is available in project
files. The sub-component would finance about 336 adaptive research btials: these would complement the relevant
ongoing research programs of EPAGRI and other institutions, which should be continued without project support.
A committee of eminent scientists and farmer representatives, created especially for the project, would review grant
applications. For technical proposals, approval criteria would emphasize participatory adaptation of technology by
farmers.
In addition to grant-funded research, the sub-component would finance the agricultural census of 250 municipalities
to refme the database to be used to select priority microcatchments for project support. In addition, it would also
finance preparation of maps of all 880 microcatchments to be used for the preparation of the microcatchment
diagnoses and management plans.
Based on a gap analysis to be performed at the microcatchment level as part of the microcatchment diagnostic,
extensionists at the municipal level would be responsible, in the first instance, for consolidating and identifying
potential demands for research topics. These would be consolidated at the regional and PMU levels, and then those
reprioritized by the panel of eminent scientists would be consideted for funding. Pre-qualified, competent
organizations considered likely to be interested in applying to submit proposals would then be invited. Applications
would be submitted for review by the panel of eminent scientists with the participation of the PMU research sub-
component coordinator. When approved, proposals will be passed to the financial unit of the PMU. The PMU
extension and research coordinator would oversee execution and reporting of projects funded by the research sub-
component.
Sub-component: Technical Assistance in Support of the State Structural Reform (US$1.5 million; 1.4% of total
project cost)
The project would finance special studies and consultant services to assist the State in its structural adjustment effort
to cover the following areas: (i) evaluation of State poverty reduction programs and policies, including its micro-
and rural credit and social inclusion schemes; and (ii) alternatives lo reform the water (including watershed
management) and the energy public services. Given the complexity and relevance of the issues to be covered by
these studies, this sub-component would be coordinated by the Governor's Secretariat. TORs will be developed and
consultants contracted by the Government following standard Bank: procurement procedures.  Because the
Government is interested in starting a number of these studies even before Loan Signature, contracting of these
studies would qualify for retroactive financing. At the end of the studies, the Govermnent and Bank will discuss
findings and possible dissemination of results. Government would also provide the Bank, by May 30 each year,



41
with copies of the annual reports of agreements with the Secretariat of the National Treasury (STN). The specific
studies under this sub-component are the following:
Two studies would review important elements of the State Strategy on Poverty Reduction as follows. First, a micro-
finance study would evaluate the performance and adequacy of the State's credit and other financial assistance
mechanisms available to the urban and rural poor, establish indicators and benchmarks for assessing performance
(including targeting, coverage, sustainability, impact/use of funds) and for evaluating how existing operations and
coverage could be improved. TORs would be presented to the Bank six months after Loan Effectiveness, and the
study would be concluded during the second year of the project. Second, a study to assist the State Government
with various aspects of the State's Social Inclusion Program "Programa Catarinense de Inclusao Social" which was
recently approved by the legislature whereby a number of programs in eight Secretariats would be reallocated to the
poorest municipalities as provided for in this new law using the Santa Catarina index of social development (IDS) as
its main targeting criteria. The study would, inter alia, assess the likely incidence of using the IDS in reallocating
resources to the target poor population, develop a methodology to evaluate the results of the Program in terms of the
efficiency and efficacy in reducing poverty and make recommendations regarding improvements to the IDS
methodology and on possible reallocation of funds within programs. TOR would be submitted to the Bank, within
three months following Loan Effectiveness; and the study would be concluded during the first year of the Project
although an amount may be set aside to assist with monitoring and evaluation in subsequent years.
Four studies are foreseen in the Water Resources Management and Water Supply and Sewerage Sector; these studies
would be completed within the first year of the project. First, the main objectives of the Water Resources
Management System would be to revamp the legal and institutional framework governing the water resources sector
in the State of Santa Catarina and to strengthen its management system. Particular objectives of the study include:
(i) reviewing a recently prepared analysis of the State's existing legislation on water resources; (ii) assessing the
current institutional arrangements governing Santa Catarina's water resources management system and
recommending alternatives to strengthen it; and (iii) defining and implementing specific management tools. Second,
the objective of the study on the Water Supply & Sanitation Sector Structure would be to define a sector structure
and regulatory framework for the provision of water supply and sanitation services in the State of Santa Catarina. In
particular, the study would: (i) analyze the present conditions of service provision and regulation in the State; (ii)
formulate alternative ways for structuring and organizing the provision of water and sewerage services in the State
of Santa Catarina, assessing the relevant legal, institutional, economic, financial, social, environmental and political
characteristics of the State; (iii) review the general conception and current regulatory arrangements in the State of
Santa Catarina, in particular its relationship with legal and institutional arrangements under consideration; and (iv)
define a strategy and a detailed action plan for implementing the selected sector legal and institutional framework, as
well as for tuning-up current regulatory framework, if necessary. Third, the main objective of the Subsidy Program
for the Water Supply and Sewerage Industry would be to design a subsidy program for the State of Santa Catarina
aimed at guarantying delivery of water supply and sewerage services to the poor. Besides the universal provision of
water and sewerage services (i.e., water abstraction, treatment and distribution and sewage collection, treatment and
effluent and sludge disposal), the study also aims to contribute to the achievement of positive health and
environmental externalities, as well as to the redefinition of the State's social policy. Fourth, based upon the
findings and reconimendations from the other studies mentioned above, the Water and Wastewater Sector Planning
Study for the State of Santa Catarina would develop a comprehensive and coherent framework for water policies
formulation and related investment decisions comprising the definition of: (i) a strategy for the future development
of the water and wastewater sector in the State of Santa Catarina; and (ii) a complementary investment plan to reach
the goals and targets envisioned in the strategy.
The Water and Wastewater Sector Planning Study would also take into account the activities to be undertaken under
the on-going Bank's Water Sector Modernization Project - PMSS 11 (Loan 4292-BR) to the Federal Government.
These activities include: (i) an already signed technical assistance agreement with the Municipality of Jaragua do
Sul to support the piloting of an alternative water model/company involving other municipalities in the water basin;
(ii) an expected technical agreement with the State of Santa Catarina to operationalizing and strengthening
SC/ARCO, the regulatory agency of the State created in January, 2000; and (iii) advisory services in the form of the
provision of expert technical assistance upon demand to the State Government and other key State officials to
support the sector restructuring program.



42
The CELESC Restructuring Review would encompass a desk review of the proposals and model endorsed by the
Government in the recently approved law and would evaluate the proposed model based upon national and
international best practice. A contingent is provided for more in-depth review of key areas including possible
implementation issues. TORs are expected to be sent to the Bank by the second quarter of 2002, as the Government
is planning to proceed immediately with the implementation of the new law. The study is expected to be completed
during the first year of the project.
2. Rural Investment (US$ 77.2 million; 72.3% of total project cost)
A Rural Investment Fund (RIF), operated under the same incentive legislation enacted to operate the LM II, would
be the instrument to induce the adoption of the project strategy within the benefited microcatchment. As in its
predecessor project, cost ceilings would be established per type of beneficiary, microcatchment and type of activity
to be promoted. To compensate poorer peoples for the shock of macroeconomic adjustment measures and improve
their livelihood, it would include social infrastructure matching grants for poorer rural communities, including small
farmers, IP and rural laborers. It would also provide matching grants to individual target microcatchment dwellers
individually or in groups to pilot new technologies and to adopt innovative schemes and production systems to
enable small-scale producers to differentiate their products and aggregate value to take advantage of niche markets.
It would also include a set of incentives to induce all farmers within benefiting microcatchment to address
environmental conflicts with investments, which will either generate off-farm public goods or benefits that have
long maturity periods. The grant would be the vehicle to partially share farmers' costs to comply with
environmental legislation while at the same time achieving food safety and hence ensure niche markets. The project
would also promote the adoption of "Terms of Adjustment of Conduct' to allow farmers to undertake compensatory
measures and to make the necessary adjustments to comply with envircnmental regulations over a reasonable period
of time. The fund contemplates three categories of grants: (i) those for home improvements, such as piped water,
sanitation or waste disposal as well as minor structural improvements to housing (available only to poorer farmers,
IP and rural laborers residing in the microcatchment); (ii) those used for conservation and environmental purposes,
such as reforestation, protection of water sources or schemes to increase biodiversity (available to all beneficiaries
but with differentiated contributions with preference to poorer farmers and IP); and (iii) those for income generation,
whether through improvements to production systems, value-added schemes or job creation (available to poorer
farmers, IP and rural laborers and to other farmers only when in association with at least 66% of the target
population but with lower-cost share of grant contribution than those fo:r poorer population).
Use of grants would be demand-led, and a consequence of the microcatchment development plans, individual plans
and the participation of the municipal and regional decision-making bodies. Based on the information available on
the microcatchment development plans prepared under the LM ll and the 22 microcatchment development plans
being prepared by EPAGRI, it is estimated that about 100,000 sub-projects would be supported under this
component and that could include the following sub-project types within the three categories of grants mentioned
above: (i) 15,000 rural homes would receive basic sanitation; (ii) 30,000 domestic water sources would be protected
from contamination; (iii) 2,350 sub-projects would be funded either to increase the value-added of the agricultural
products or to create off-farm earnings or employment opportunities, particularly to the priority target group; (iv)
50,000 families would be assisted to adopt improved land management practices, most of which would be from the
target population; (v) 11,100 farmers would implement environmentally sound pig waste disposal; and (vi) 2,000 km
of riparian gallery forest would be replanted. Communities could also use grants to repair or upgrade critical
stretches of rural roads or undertake initiatives that would benefit groups of microcatchments or municipalities if
identified to resolve critical local constrains. Road rehabilitation shall follow directives in the Road Rehabilitation
manual to be financed under the project. It would also fund any group environmental protection schemes that
members may demand--e.g., to replant trees for river bank protection. Grants supported under the Fund would be
available to MAs to contract out services for the elaboration of microcatchment, individual and indigenous plans and
for other technical and social assistance needed during implementation of those plans, in particular to target group
members. Technical assistance costs would be supported on a declining share ratio over time, i.e., from 100% in the
first project year to only 30% in the final year. Post-project, associations would be expected to pay the full cost of
extension with either their own resources or using alternative financing schemes.
Grant applications would be assembled and evaluated initially by MAs. Those endorsed at this level would be
consolidated at the municipal level and submitted to stakeholder decision-making bodies at the municipal level for
approval, where grants of up to R$5,000 (US$2,000 equivalent) could be approved. Applications from R$5,000 to



43
R$50,000 (US$2,000 - US$20,000 equivalent) would be referred to stakeholder decision-making bodies at the
regional level and those above R$50,000 to the state level (above US$20,000 equivalent). Disbursement would
normally be against submitted receipts, although regulations would allow pre-fmancing of small amounts for the
poorest applicants and issue of working capital. The component would be coordinated by a Fund Manager in the
PMI, assisted by a grant administrator. Once awarded, grant funds would be transferred directly to beneficiaries.
MAs and staff from the executing offices at municipal, regional and state level, as well as CCMs and CCRs--the
latter two composed by representatives of project executors and beneficiaries--, would be responsible for monitoring
the use of the grants as described in the monitoring section.
3. Environmental Management (US$ 3.8 million; 3.5% of total project cost)
Under this component, the project would adopt a management strategy based on the successful experiences and
results of the LM II Project, which demonstrated that: (i) improved land-use management practices meet water
resource management objectives; (ii) land-use policies should be closely integrated with water management and
overall natural resources and biodiversity conservation; (iii) upstream farmers, who arrested land degradation and
supported rehabilitation activities, contributed to improved water quality and quantity downstream, and hence could
and should be compensated for their efforts; and (iv) microwatershed commissions created under the project,
although still imperfect organizations, are important grassroots forums that would facilitate their integration and
participation into broader discussion forums at the river basin management level. This component would support
the creation and development (or strengthening) of Watershed Committees, watershed plans, ecological corridors
and protected areas, integrating natural resources management and conservation actions with those planned and
implemented at the microcatchment level in three selected pilot watersheds (sub-basins)'. It would also support
Government efforts to "harmonize" existing laws and policies in the sector, including: (i) the establishment of a
single coherent system of PAs that represent different scenery and natural features of the State; (ii) the provision of
incentives to increase the municipalities' and private sector's roles in protecting important endangered ecosystems of
the State; and (iii) the provision of information and means to achieve a commitment from municipal governments
and the public at large to participate in the implementation of conservation management measures in compliance
with the SEUC criteria.
Sub-component Supportfor Watershed Management (US$2.3 million: 2.1% of total project cost)
This sub-component aims at integrating, on a pilot basis, project planning and management interventions at the
watershed level with those to be undertaken at the microcatchment level. It would initiate the integration of national
environmental and river basin management policies and laws, by piloting the preparation of river basin sub-
catchment plans (or watershed plans) using project microcatchment plans as the building blocks. Plans would be
prepared and their implementation would be started in the following three (out of 23 State watersheds) watersheds:
Timb6 Watershed (220,000 ha), the Chapec6 Upper River Valley (530,000 ha) and the Jacutinga Watershed
(100,000 ha). The selection of these pilot watersheds resulted from the overlapping of the following information
and criteria:
*   The potential for development of ecological corridors and the creation of new PAs, identified on the basis of the
following criteria: (i) biological distinctiveness of forest remnants and other natural habitats; (ii) level of threat
to biodiversity; and (iii) ecosystems poorly or not represented in the existing state system of parks and reserves
(or areas without legal protection), but with important biological distinctiveness;
*   Poor water quality conditions, particularly those resulting from inadequate management of hog waste and
pesticides;
*   Largest concentration of poor population, according to the Index of Social Development (IDS 2000)2; and
*   Existence of an enabling local institutional environment conducive to the introduction of the proposed activities
(e.g., where some sort of mobilization already exists to strengthen an existing or create a new Watershed
Committee).
XFor the purpose of this component, "watershed" and "sub-basin" are equivalent.
2 Calculated based on the following parameters at municipal level: epidemiological profile, basic education and
illiteracy rates, financial situation, internal growth rate, electricity, water supply and sanitation coverage.



44
With the above-mentioned objectives and geographical scope in mind, this sub-component would support the
following activities:
Development of Integrated Watershed Management Plans (WMPs). The development of WMPs would take
into account concepts of integrated resource planning, river basin management and microcatchment planning and
involve the broad spectrum of watershed stakeholders. It would identify the critical ecological and water resources
processes and propose solutions through collaborative land and water management and conservation activities. The
achievement of objectives and milestones to be established under the WMPs would be supported by the
implementation of individual microcatchment plans (prepared under project Component 1) and by sub-projects
identified in the WMP covering more than one microcatchment within the watershed (i.e., either a selected group of
adjacent microcatchments or the whole watershed). These sub-projects would include interventions to support
watershed approaches to non-point source pollution, water quality permitting and monitoring, habitat protection and
other water resource and restoration activities.
The formulation and further implementation of the WMPs would be fully integrated with the design and
development of ecological corridors, supported under the Ecological 'Corridors and PAs sub-component below.
To develop the WMPs, the project would finance technical assistance, studies and training of community and river
basin committee promoters (including representatives from all relevant sectors and from MAs), participant
workshops, minimum equipment and materials.
Funds would cover the costs of technical assistance, workshops and training for: (i) strengthening or creating
Watershed (or Sub-basin) Committees; (ii) carrying out socioeconomic, environmental and stakeholder assessments
based on Participatory Rapid Appraisal techniques (one PRA for each watershed); (iii) developing of more detailed
assessment and characterization of aquatic resources, problems, their causes and sources (including land-based
activities); (iv) goal setting (particularly water quality and allocation); (v) problem prioritization and resource
targeting; (vi) establishment of water resources and environmental objectives consistent with legislation and
reflecting the needs of watershed stakeholders; (vii) identification of financial and regulatory mechanisms to
facilitate sustainability of water resources management; (viii) identilication of M&E indicators to monitor the
implementation of WMPs; (ix) identification of specific implementation actions that will attain the goals; and (x)
setting of milestones, assignment of responsibility and identification of existing and potential sources of funding for
implementation.
Initial Implementation of Integrated Watershed Management Plan. The project would support the initial
implementation of priority actions identified in the three pilot WMPs. Though directly financing some strategic
WMPs sub-projects itself, such as reforestation activities, control of non-point source pollution, water quality
permitting and monitoring, habitat protection and restoration, the project would also act as a catalyst for other
federal, state and/or municipal programs in support of sustainable watershed development. Sub-projects, which
could be directly financed under the RIF (Component 2), would: (i) ccmprise sub-projects proposed by farmers or
farmers' associations; and (ii) specific project sub-projects proposed by non-farmers' associations (NGOs, River
Basin Committees, municipalities, etc.).
This sub-component would be implemented by the SDM's Natural Resources Department, through its Water
Resource team, in close collaboration with SDA, FATMA, EPAGRI, the Watershed Committees, the State
Environmental Police (CPPA) and other concerned local institutions. Coordination of the sub-component activities
would be the overall responsibility of a seconded SDM/FATMA environmental specialist in the PMU. He/she
would coordinate the work programs of senior environmentalists and subject matter specialists based in existing
FATMA offices (central and regional), including consultants who would oversee and support interactions of local
stakeholders, particularly municipal associations, municipal environme:ntal and rural development councils, NGOs,
microcatchment associations and river basin committees.
Sub-component Ecological Corridors and Protected Areas (US$1.5million; 1.4% of total project cost)
Efforts to protect the richness of the Atlantic forest resources throughout the State of Santa Catarina have been
significant but insufficient. Therefore, under this sub-component the project would support the State's priority
efforts to establish ecological corridors and to strengthen existing PA.s. This sub-component would support the
creation of ecological corridors and PAs, would oversee the publication and application of new state-level laws and



45
regulations to establish and provide economic incentives for ecological corridors and PAs. In addition, one existing
State Park (Tabuleiro) would be consolidated. It would support the following activities:
Design and Management of Ecological Corridors. The project would design ecological corridors in two out of
the three pilot watersheds selected for project support under the previously described sub-component (Timb6
Watershed and Chapec6 Upper River Valley)'. It would also promote the creation (or increase the size) of private
and public PAs in these watersheds, provide incentives to increase connectivity of forest cover among them and
create conditions for their sustainable management.
Landscape-level corridors would comprise a mosaic of land uses connecting PAs and fragments of natural forest
across a landscape within the selected watersheds, which hold important Atlantic forest ecosystems. In productive
agricultural landscapes, and through Components I and 2, the project would promote the land restoration through
the adoption of improved agricultural practices that enhance soil biodiversity (non-till systems, legume crop
rotation, mulching and other conservation agriculture practices).
At the design stage, to determine the suitable landscape spatial structures, the project would finance studies2, surveys
and mapping, adopting remote sensing, GIS and respective GIS-based spatial models. A public consultation process
would also be initiated at this design stage, so as to raise conservation awareness and to involve local communities
living inside and outside parks and reserves boundaries, by addressing their needs and promoting co-management.
The project would also support the initial implementation of the corridors. This would include: (i) establishment of
a minimum corridor coordination and participatory management structure; (ii) implementation of an integrated
geographical information system and information dissemination (8,000 folders, 3,000 CD-roms, etc.); (iii) training
on private and municipal PAs management design (20 workshops or focus groups involving land owners and
municipal officers, including municipal Attorney General staff); and (iv) implementation of sub-projects in PAs and
interstice areas of the corridor.
Sub-project types would include interventions to promote sustainable management of natural resources and
conservation by local communities and promotion of private natural reserves (RPPNs), mandatory legal reserves and
permanent preservation areas on private lands, including training. The project would also act as a catalyst for other
federal, state and/or municipal programs in support of sustainable watershed development. As in the Watershed
Management sub-component, sub-projects which could be directly financed under the project would have one of the
following sources of financing: (i) the RIF (Component 2), comprising sub-projects proposed by farmers or farmers'
associations; and (ii) specific project funds allocated to finance sub-projects proposed by non-farmers' associations
(NGOs, municipalities, etc.).
Support to regulation and dissemination of new state-level laws. The project would oversee the publication and
application of two new state laws and regulations that would establish and provide economic incentives for the
implementation of ecological corridors and PAs. The project would finance publications (15,000 folders, 3,000 CD-
roms), homepage and media campaigns, 20 workshops and technical assistance for drafting the regulations for these
two new laws and for the development of an inventory of existing private and public PAs. These new laws include
the yet to be sanctioned "Lei do ICMS Ecol6gico" (that would allow VAT incentives for environmental protection)
and the recently enacted law that establishes the SEUC.
Consolidation of the Tabuleiro State Park. The project-supported activities in this area would be a major baseline
for the aforementioned GEF MSP Project. All project interventions in the Tabuleiro Park would also complement
the institutional strengthening and Park infrastructure works planned under the KFW3-supported "Pro-Mata
Atlantica Project."
' Criteria for prioritizing these two watersheds for the creation of corridors are presented above under the
Watershed Management sub-component.
2 Socioeconomic planning, corridor management studies and conservation biology studies would be undertaken in
coordination with the diagnostic studies carried out under the Watershed Management sub-component (conservation
biology studies would include a detailed analysis of existing data on the distribution of key species and of existing
PAs, including indigenous territories).
3 KFW - German Service Enterprise for Development Cooperation.



46
The project interventions in the Park would include: (i) strengthening cf existing Park visitors infrastructure (small
works), including the construction of interpretative trails and two thematic centers in the buffer zone and equipment
for these centers and for fire control; and (ii) expansion of training (in participatory Park management),
environmental education and dissemination activities planned under the GEF project, by supporting: (a) the
organization of 60 events (workshops, field trips, courses) involving 50 community leaders, 270 school teachers, 60
municipal and Park staff and other 220 local stakeholders; and (b) publications and other Park promotional materials
(10,000 folders; 10,000 books; 5,000 posters; 6,000 agendas; 5,000 T-shirts; 8,000 post cards, etc).
In addition, through project Components I and 2, the project would co'nsolidate sustainable resource management
activities in the buffer zone, by promoting the replication of successful alternative livelihood activities (tested under
the GEF project) to all microcatchments located in the Park buffer zone. Implementation responsibility for this sub-
component would be given to FATMA in close collaboration with SDM, CPPA, SDA/EPAGRI, Municipal and
State General Attorney Offices and the recently created State Attorney Thematic Office (Ministdrio Puiblico), which
deals exclusively with the Tabuleiro Park-related lawsuits and significantly contributes to the Park's implementation.
Coordination of the sub-component activities would be the overall r-sponsibility of a seconded SDM/FATMA
environmental specialist in the PMU. He/she would coordinate the work programs of senior environmentalists and
subject matter specialists based in existing FATMA offices (central and regional), including consultants who would
oversee and support interactions of local stakeholders, particularly municipal associations, municipal environmental
and rural development councils, NGOs, microcatchment associations and river basin committees.
4. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$8.0 million; 7.5% of total project cost)
Sub-component Project Management (US$2.9 million; 2. 7% of total pioject cost)
Project management and implementation would be the overall responsibility of the Santa Catarina's SDA supported
by the SDM, FATMA, under SDM and EPAGRI and ICEPA, under SDAN. For assisting IP communities, it will also
be supported by FUNAI.
The project management structure would be decentralized with executive bodies at the state, regional, municipal and
microcatchment levels. Building on the experience of the LM II, it has been designed to maximize participation and
ownership of decision-making by the beneficiaries, combined with transfer of these responsibilities and project
accountability to the lowest practicable administrative levels. These airas would be achieved by a pyramid of inter-
linked "deliberative" bodies created in parallel to the executive ones, stretching from state level through 14
operating regions to Santa Catarina's 293 municipalities, the 880 project microcatchments and eventually down to
the community level (see Figure I of Annex 12 on Project Managenient Structure). Where similar deliberative
bodies already exist--at state and municipal levels--the project's specific deliberative bodies will be attached to them
but with specific membership to ensure full representation of the target beneficiaries. To ensure that development is
demand-led, at least 50% of the participants in project deliberative bodies at every level would be members of the
target group or their representatives. Other members would span remaining stakeholders in the participatory
process--NGOs, labor unions, co-operatives, private firms, government organizations involved in implementation
and local political figures such as mayors.
The Government has set up a small PMU at state level attached to the office of the SDA. The PMU has small
departments dealing with technical management, auditing, finance, procurement and administration, monitoring and
evaluation and operation of the RIF. It is staffed with a core team of qualified professionals staffed mainly seconded
from the partner executive organizations (EPAGRI, ICEPA and SDM/FATMA) with substantial experience
implementing the LM II project. It is complemented with specialized consultants hired by ICEPA mainly in the
areas of financial management, procurement and internal auditing. A social scientist attached to the PMN will assist
and coordinate the implementation of indigenous activities under the project. In addition, EPAGRI's regional and
municipal offices would serve as project executive units of the PMU that would also have small multi-institutional
teams in each of the 14 EPAGRI regional offices. The function of the I'MU and its executive partner organizations-
-notably EPAGRI and FATMA-is to support implementation of the collective decisions and programs of the
deliberative bodies coming from the various levels. Thus the state, regional and municipal project executive units
would also act as the executive arms for the stakeholder deliberative bodies responsible for participatory planning,
decision-making and oversight of implementation at state, regional, municipal and microcatchment levels (see



47
Figure 2 in Annex 12).
Under this sub-component, the project would finance consultant costs and equipment for the establishment and
functioning of the PMU in the SDA. It would also support a communications program to ensure that all relevant
stakeholders (particularly the target poorest farmers and ethnic minorities) are adequately informed about the
project's objectives, opportunities and procedures and able to provide feedback and participate in the process. An
automated MIS will be developed under the project to enhance the existing MIS used under the LM II. It would
automatically integrate physical, financial and accounting information under one system. It would be integrated
with the monitoring system of project inputs and outputs (see details under M&E sub-component below). Through a
special unit of qualified staff, the PMU will also manage the administrative and procurement functions of the
project.
Sub-component Monitoring and Evaluation (VS$2.6 million; 2.4% of totalproject cost)
This sub-component would support project monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of project results and impacts.
It would also include the development and implementation of an automated Management Information System - MIS
(see Figure A at the end of this section).
This enhanced MIS would permit automatic tracking of the physical and financial execution of the project. The
TORs for the design of the automated MIS and the cronogram for its implementation were agreed at negotiations
and included in the PMU Institutional Stregthening Action Plan (See Appendix 1, Annex 6). To facilitate interface
between the project, service providers and beneficiaries, the project would establish a web-based information
system. In addition, given the decentralized nature of the project, , the enhanced MIS would integrate the existing
internal controls, records of project assets, procurement, accounting, auditing and incorporate means to reconcile the
project's Special Account and would conform with the Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
Handbook (1995), the Bank's Operation Policy and Procedures 10.02 (July 1996) and revised financial management
standards as in OP/BP 10.02 (August 1997). The sytem will also produce timely budgetary and expenditure
information to the Bank and other stakeholders. Moreover, special attention would be given to design a
performance-oriented and user friendly MIS. It would also include the following elements:
*   Reporting from project staff (particularly extensionists) who would monitor implementation of productive,
social and environmental improvements;
*   Reports from beneficiaries, in particular MAs, CCMs, CCRs, CCE and pilot Watershed Committees (through
the MA, beneficiaries would also report on progress on the microcatchment implementation plan);
* Recording of all planned and executed activities (physical, financial and procurement information), in
accordance with the directives in the Operational Manual at all levels (state, regional, municipal and
microcatchment);
*   Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) and reports from periodic audits and other relevant PMRs; and
*   ICEPA and other partner and independent institutions that will undertake project impact evaluations.
Appendix 2 of this Annex provides the basis for establishing the parameters (inputs and outputs) needed to carry out
project monitoring. Monitoring results would be inserted into the MIS, thus allowing a real-time tracking of
microcatchment plans and related sub-projects being implemented on the ground.
Given that the Rural Investment component constitutes the bulk of project expenditures (US$77.2 million), the
monitoring of this component will be more detailed and intense. Based on output indicators listed in Appendix 2 of
this Annex, the monitoring activities would track a number of features related to the implementation of sub-projects
financed under this component: number and type of sub-projects (since the process is demand-driven) and which
types are in more demand'; type of beneficiary benefited under the RIF (i.e., marginal or transitional farmer, rural
worker, IP); etc. Progress reports specific for the RIF would be available for the various features which may be
deemed necessary, e.g. by geographical distribution (by state, region, municipality, microcatchment), land surface
(of riparian forest replanted, conservation practices adopted, improved soil management practices), etc.
There are three types of sub-projects possible under this component: environmental, home improvement and
income generation grants.



48
In addition to physical/project-based and financial monitoring and related MIS, this sub-component would also
support the continuous monitoring of socioeconomic and environmental aspects in pilot microcatchments. It
would include monitoring of: (i) water quality and quantity (around 12 parameters to be measured
systematically/fortnightly in 6 to 12 pilot microcatchments and groundwater sampling stations/wells); (ii) other
environment-related indicators: vegetation cover, pesticide use reduction, soil-water content, adoption of agriculture
conservation practices by farmers; (iii) socioeconomic aspects: effective participation and empowerment of
communities in project-related decision-making process, farmers perception of environmental issues, improvement
in family living conditions, financial and socioeconomic situation; and (iv) additional qualitative and quantitative
parameters to compute the economic value of external impacts of natural resources management activities, such as
the value of increased CO2 stored, reduced sedimentation, reduced pesticide runoff and other environmental impacts
on downstream users.
Project impact evaluations would complement the above-mentioned monitoring activities (which would allow the
measurement of actual performance with expected performance) by measuring the effectiveness of actual
performnance (i.e. impact), hence providing feedback and helping improve the effectiveness of the project. Most of
the indicators for impact evaluation are laid out in Annex 1, under Sector Indicators. These indicators imply a series
of quantitative and qualitative parameters that would be applied to determine how closely the project has attained
them.
This activity would include ex-ante (year 1), mid-term (year 3) and ex-post (year 6) evaluations. The structure of
these evaluations will be based on parameters and indicators as defined in the project objectives (Annex 1), focusing
on socioeconomic, environmental and policy aspects. The ex-ante evaluration will be based on information obtained
in all production systems of the State (i.e., in the 1,683 microcatchments of the State) through a municipal census to
be conducted during the first year of the project (and starting before project effectiveness). The results of ex-ante
evaluation will also be used to select the 880 microcatchments to be benefited by the project. To that end, a few
case studies or additional surveys may be deemed necessary to assess or complement the information provided by
the census. Baseline information obtained during the early stage of project implementation (ex-ante evaluation)
would be compared with progress at a mid-term review and at completion. The mid-term evaluation will be based
on a two-stage field survey of project microcatchments within those already in operation by third year of
implementation. It will be the first detailed review of progress and a prognosis of the likely effects of the project,
and it is intended to identify project design problems and timely solutions. The ex-post evaluation will also be
based on a second municipal census, and it will include a final assessment of the project's effects and their potential
sustainability. As in the case of ex-ante, the mid-term and ex-post evaluations will also include specific case studies
which may be deemed necessary to assess or complement the information provided by the corresponding survey and
census. These studies may include, e.g., the assessment of project progress or effects on IPs, poorer farmers, natural
resources, etc. The mid-term and ex-post evaluations will also consider the results from monitoring of pilot
microcatchments to assess more specific socioeconomic and environmental impacts, including the aforementioned
external impacts of natural resources management activities on downstream users (i.e., off-farm public goods
benefits), so as to design appropriate compensation mechanisms.
Bank supervision missions would review project implementation at leasi: every six months on the basis of approved
annual operating plans and annual progress reports. The content of the progress reports were agreed at Appraisal
and would build on the experiences of the LM II and those of similar pro jects in neighboring states.
The project's M&E system would use participatory mechanisms to enable stakeholders to share their feedback. The
PMU's M&E Unit would be responsible for coordinating monitoring (see Annex 12 on Project Management), with
EPAGRI and other executing agencies providing support and technical assistance as necessary. Key groups of
stakeholders, particularly those small farmers living in the pilot microwatersheds, would also participate actively in
data collection and other sampling activities to monitor social and environmental aspects of the project.
Dissemination of project findings.  Dissemination and diffusion of project results and impacts would be
implemented under this sub-component. Web-sites, media, newsletters, bulletins and workshops would stimulate
continued participation of stakeholders, as well as ensure that lessons learned are shared and commented on by
actual and potential beneficiaries at the local and state levels, nationally (through workshops, conferences,
publications and a project homepage) and internationally (through the project's homepage, study tours and



49
occasional exchange programs with other projects, particularly in Latin America and Africa). At the local level, the
target audience for information dissemination would include 105,000 farmers' families and other key stakeholders in
the 293 municipalities of the State. All project material to be disseminated would emphasize the importance of
participatory planning and management for integrating environmental and social sustainability into strategies to
alleviate rural poverty and improve rural livelihoods.
Sub-component Community Organization (US$2.5 million; 2.4% of total project cost)
A sub-component for community organization would provide separate resources for the creation and operation of
all categories of stakeholder bodies. Funding would be provided to support day-to-day operations and meetings of
880 MAs, 293 municipal-level deliberative bodies, 14 regional deliberative bodies and the state-level deliberative
commission throughout the six-year disbursement period.
5. Front End Fee (US$0.6 million; 0. 6% of total project cost or 1% of Loan)



50
Figure a. Project Monitoring and Evaluation Structure
Ex-ante
lo I  Evaluation
(baseline)
Independent Evaluations:
Project Management                               Financ
Information System                               Auditing
MIS
Technical
Auditing
Financial Monitoring                                                          Mid-term
Evaluation
Procuremnent Information                            BefEvcaluation
and Monitoring                                   Eauto
(CCE, CCR and CCM)
Technical/Project-based  l__                                                    Ex-post
Monitoring                                                                Evaluation



51
Annex 2, Appendix 1
Targeting
Following the successful experience of the LM II and of other similar projects being implemented in the southern
states of Brazil, the project would use objective criteria applied at municipal, microcatchment and beneficiaries level
to concentrate project efforts in consonance with project objectives. The target population consists of an estimated
105,000 small-scale and marginal farmers' families, rural workers and about 5,000 IP. This estimated population
resides primarily in 880 microcatchments out of Santa Catarina's 1,683 (an estimated 3.6 million hectares). Among
this population, the priority target group includes an estimated 80,000 poor rural families, i.e., 75 % of the families
to be benefited under the project. It comprises rural poor within Santa Catarina, with per capita net farm income of
less than two minimum wages, including those classified as "marginal" (with per capita net farm income of less than
one minimum wage), "transitional type 1" (with per capita net farm income of less than two minimum wages) and
IPs. The criteria to be applied at municipal and microcatchment level to direct project interventions to the priority
target group combines social and environmental indicators. In contrast with the natural resources management and
poverty reduction projects being implemented now in Rio Grande do Sul and in Parana, which have different
planning units for the natural resources and the poverty reduction components, the State strongly believes that the
microcatchment and its residents considered together constitute the most effective planning unit to assist the poorer
rural population in the State using the proposed project as the main instrument to implant the State's rural poverty
reduction strategy. This policy builds on the LM II and the State's evaluation of the strong linkages between rural
poverty and degraded natural resources.
The targeting criteria to select priority municipalities and then priority microcatchments within them would give:
*   Sixty percent weight to a socioeconomic factor combining the percentage of the population in the marginal and
transition income groups, percentage of IP and rural youth in the population and access to public services for
health, education and sanitation. Within this combination, the concentration of marginal farmers would receive
twice the priority weight of transitionals, and IP four times the weight.
*   Forty percent weight to environmental factors as represented by water quality, density of the pig population,
intensity of use of agrochemicals, remaining forest cover and the proportion of cropped land still under
conventional tillage. Within this combination, the pig index would receive the highest weight, followed by
agrochemical use and with forest cover and conventional tillage equaled in third.
The social data for calculation of targeting criteria at the municipal level are largely available, including
classification under the Santa Catarina index of social development (IDS) that combines 17 parameters covering
demographics, health, education, income, electricity consumption, water supply, sanitation and solid waste disposal.
Environmental data would require separate collection, which would be done by field extension staff of the
municipality or EPAGRI.
Disaggregated base data for individual microcatchments within municipalities is available as by-products of
implementation of the LM II project, but need to be complemented and updated. Therefore, as part of the project
design, before selection of priority microcatchments, each municipality, assisted by EPAGRI, would conduct a
census, following a methodology already tested by EPAGRI in 50 municipalities. Consequently, the municipal
census would be one of the first activities to be carried out under the project.
The application of criteria for targeting municipalities would result in three different priority categories/groups of
municipalities:
*   In the most needy third (Group 1), two-thirds of the microcatchments in the municipality would be eligible for
project support.
*   In the median group (Group 2), half the microcatchments would be eligible.
*   In the least needy group (Group 3), only one third would be eligible.
Data for ranking of municipalities would be assembled by the PMU and submitted to the State Rural Development
Council, CedeRural, for approval.



52
Once the municipalities have been assigned as a priority, the survey and application of Targeting Criteria for
selection of microcatchments within municipalities would be the municipality's own responsibility. Surveys would
be made by their own extensionists, with technical advice and assistance as necessary from local EPAGRI or
regional PMU staff. On the basis of these findings, microcatchment targeting decisions would be made by existing
Municipal Rural Development Councils (CMDR). Once microcatchment residents and communities have agreed to
enter the project, an MA would be formed. Representatives of these M:As would then comprise the municipal-level
deliberative Committee (CCM) that would be formed as a sectoral body (attached to the CMDR) for project
implementation.
Within microcatchments, all residents would be encouraged to participate in the microcatchment development plans
and local projects. However, the less poor farmers would only be able to participate in environmental sub-projects
or in income generation sub-projects only when in association with al least 66% of the primary target population
with lower cost share of grant contribution.



53
Annex 2, Appendix 2
Project Implementation Performance Indicators
[~~nentsandActivities] FiespnsiblIeUnt      Yl    P2     7     ]                 P6f[         ]
Component 1: Institutional
Development and           SEE
Organization
Suh-comp. LL1: Training
Output I . I . I .:
-Stakeholders trained (total)          N.'   10,703 27,829    14,454  14,116  13,116 12116]  92,334
-Farmers trained                       N.'    6,000 16,000    14,000 14,000  13,000 12,000   75,000
-Municipal leaders trained             N.    3,650 11,000        -       -      -      -    14,650
-Technicians trained                   N.     773     570      338              -      -     1,681
-Local instructors trained              N'     100      -        -       -      -      -      100
-Management staff trained              N.0       30           -           -      -      -       30
-Administrative staff                  N.      150    143        -       -      -      -      293
-Municipal Road machine                N.'        -    116      116    116     116    116      580
operators                               _
Sub-component 1.2:
Environmental Education   SEE
Output 1.2.1.:
-Beneficiaries aware
of/committed to                         NO   10,000 10,000    12,000  15,850 20,000 25,000   92,850
Output 1.2.2.:
-Schools recruited                      No       50    250      250    250     100    100     1,000
-Projects implemented                   No       50    150      200    200     200    200     1,000
Sub-Component 1.3: Rural
Extension          ~~EPA GRI
Output 1.3.1I.:           AMPAR
-Technicians and extension  SDA         No      773    330                                    1,103
agents trained and operating  SDM
-Operational Manual prepared SEE        No        1      -                                        I
-Microcatchment            A            No      110    440      330                            880
Development Plan prepared
-Farm Development Plans   Facilitators  N'    9,000 35,000   26,000                          70,000
prepared
Sub-Comp. 1.4: Adaptive and
Social Research
Output 1.4.1:
-Adaptive and social research  EPAGRI   N'       73     73       82     63      45              336
carried out
-Agricultural census of   Municipality  N'      250      -        -       -      -             250
municipalities carried out
Output 1.4.2: Socio-
environmental mapping
-Microcatchments mapped   SEE           N'      290    290      300                             880



54
| Components and Activities mResponsibMle
I Inttutio  JIJJ                              J 
Component 2: Rural
Investment                 SEE
Output 2.1: Investments to
support sustainability
-Projects to increase value-            No      120    230      590    590    470     350    2,350
added set up
-Families with improved                 N    2,000  4,000    10,000  10,000  8,000  6,000  40,000
production systems
-Homes improved                         NO      750   1,500   3,750   3,750  3,000  2,250   15,000
-Families applying improved             N    2,500   5,000   12,500 12,500  10,000  7,500  50,000
land management practices
-Area covering management               Ha    12,500 25,000  62,500 62,500 50,000 37,500   250,000
practices
-Families disposing of pig              NO      555   1,110   2,775   2,775  2,220  1,665   11,100
waste satisfactorily
-Riparian gallery forest                Km      100    200      500    500    400     300    2,000
replanted
-Families using protected water         No     1,500  3,000   7,500   7,500  6,000  4,500   30,000
sources
Component 3:               SEE
Environmental Management
Sub-Component 3.1:
Watershed Management
OutDut 3.1. 1:
Watershed management plans  SDM         N                1               1              1        3
formulated
Sub-Component 3.2:
Ecological Corridors and PAs
Output 3.2. 1:
Ecological corridors identified  FA TMA  No                                      1      1        2
and in process of establishment
Output 3.2.2:
PAs consolidated (Tabuleiro  FATMA      No                                       -      1        I
State Park)
Output 3.3.3:
Norms for a SEUC released  FA TMA       No                        2                  -           2
and ICMS created                                          I.I                     I



55
Components and        Responsible  Unit | PY1 |       |                   P      P       Total
Activities      |   nsiuio 
Component 4: Project     SDA/SEE
Management, M &E
Sub-Component 4.1:
Project Management
Output4.1.1.: Project
Management Structure Set
Up
-PMU set up                             N0        1                -       -      -       -       I
-Regional PMUs set up                   N 0      14                                              14
-Municipal PMUs set up                  No      110    160                 -              -     270
-Facilitators available                 No      110    220       110                      -     440
Sub-Component 4.2: M&E   SDA/SEE
Output 4.2.1: Project
impacts monitored and
evaluated
M&E System set up                       N I                                                      1
Ex-ante evaluation                    NO        I
Mid-term evaluation                   N         -                                       - 
Ex-post evaluation                    NO        -                                       ; 1
Sub-Component 4.3:       SDA/SEE
Community Organization
Output 4.3 .1.: Management
institutions constituted                No                                                        1
-CCE set up                                       I
-CCR set up                             N0       14       -                               -      14
-CCM set up                             N        14    147                                -     293
-MAs set up                             N 0     440    440                     -                880



56
Brazil
Santa Catarina
Natural Resources Management and Pover ty Reduction Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
(Million US$)             %     % Total
Foreign   Base
Locall  Foreign     Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Institutional Development and Organization
Training                                            4.0       -          4.0                4
Enviromnental Education                             1.0       -          1.0        -       1
Rural Extension                                     4.5      0.7         5.2       14       5
Adaptive & Social Research                          4.1       -          4.1        -       4
TA for Structural Adjustment                        1.4       -          1.4        -I
Sub-tot Institutional Development and Organization   14.9      0.7       15.7        5       15
B. Rural Investment
Social Sub-projects                                 6.8      0.8         7.5       10       7
Enviromnental Sub-projects                          20.1      -         20.1        -       20
Economic Sub-projects                               27.4     3.1        30.4       10       30
Technical Assistance                                19.1      -         19.1        -       19
Sub-total Rural Investment                           73.4      3.8       77.1        5       75
C. Environmental Management
Watershed Management                                2.0       -          2.0        1       2
Ecological Corridors & Protected Areas              1.3       -          1.3       2        1
Sub-total Environmental Management                   3.3       -          3.3        2       3
D. Project Management, M&E
Project Management                                  2.5       -          2.5        1       2
Monitoring and Evaluation                           2.3       -          2.3        -       2
Community Organization                              2.1      0.1         2.2       3        2
Sub-total Project Management, M&E                     6.9      0.1        7.0        1        7
rotal BASELINE COSTS                                  98.4     4.7        103.1       5      100
Physical Contingencies                              1.3      0.0         1.3        7       1
Price Contingencies                                 2.4      0.1         2.5        4       2
Front-End Fee                                        -       0.6        0.6       100       1
rotal PROJECT COSTS                                  102.1.    5.4        107.5      5       103



57
Brazil
Santa Catarina
Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Since community-driven development mechanisms are going to be carried out under the new project, it is not possible
to know a priori how project resources are going to be applied, and therefore an ex-ante estimation of their financial and
economic rate of return and fiscal impact is not feasible. However, given that the proposed project is a follow-up to the
LM 1I Project and builds on the experience gained in the neighboring states of Parana, Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do
Sul, some idea on the type of demand likely to be expressed by beneficiaries, and its corresponding costs and benefits,
can be obtained. Ex-post estimates for the first project in SC (LM II) indicate that productivity of the main crops in the
state--maize, wheat and soybeans--surpassed by 20 to 35% when compared to without-project productivity levels.
Other non-quantified benefits obtained included less suspended solids, coliform bacteria and pesticide residues in runoff
water streams, thus lowering silting and water treatment costs in downstream areas and reducing the incidence of water
borne diseases and pesticides poisoning. Sub-projects to be funded under the proposed project would, in general, be
similar to those financed under the prior projects. Therefore, the experience and results of a sample of completed
schemes under those operations were examined, as internal economic rates of return (IERR) and other economic
parameters for local schemes under the new project are likely not to differ greatly. The demand driven approach
adopted, combined with strict criteria to assess the technical and economic viability of the proposals (agreed at
Appraisal and incorporated into the Operational Manual) would ensure that the best development alternatives are chosen
for financing. Moreover, MAs participation in identifying, preparing, ftnancing and execution of investments would be
a further assurance for sustainability of initiatives.
The following is a summary of the project economic, financial and fiscal analysis covering three regions of SC - West,
Center/Planalto and the Coast/Litoral (for more detail, see project files). For the economic analysis, some of the off-
farm benefits to be obtained were also considered in order to identify some of the public goods captured by others and
the eventual need to compensate divergence between private and social interests. For example, although conservation
agriculture may contribute to reducing global warming, it is less likely to be adopted by farmers if they do not directly
capture the ensuing benefits. LM II demonstrated that the use of incentives as payments for environmental services
helped to induce farmers' decisions to adopt conservation practices benefiting society at large.
Financial Analysis
Eleven farm models, five processing facility models and seven microcatchment-area models have been identified to
represent some working hypothesis of likely beneficiary choices taken in response to the proposed project activities and
incentives towards the adoption of conservation agricultural practices and PA investments. The expected adoption of
conservation practices would reduce soil degradation, minimizing changes in soil composition and structure and
maintaining organic soil cover. The quantifiable benefits at the farm level would include: (i) reduced on-farm costs
(savings in time, labor and mechanization); and (ii) increased soil fertility, resulting in long-term yield increase, reduced
yield variations and greater food security. These benefits stemming from better NRM are generally considered by
farmers in deciding whether they will change their production practices.
Increased on-farm investments and expenditures related to the adoption of sustainable NRM practices might be highly
profitable but also have to be attractive and adoptable for the limited investment capacity and resources available to the
poor farmers. Specifically, most poor subsistence farmers have a time horizon that only goes to the next season because
of pressing current needs, which helps to explain exploitative patterns of land use and some farmers' unwillingness,
incapability or disinterest in investing in long-term resource conservation. Poor people often have no choice but to opt
for immediate economic benefits at the expense of the long-term sustainability of their livelihoods. In most situations,
farmers are reluctant to adopt conservation tillage, not because of lack of information, poor perceptions or traditional
habits, but because future, long-term benefits are highly discounted.
The main assumptions for the financial analysis were: (i) discount rate: 12%; (ii) time horizon: 20 years; (iii) constant



58
third quarter 2001 labor, input and output prices; (iv) constant real exchange rate: R$2,50 per US dollar; (v) 80% of
investment costs (excluding labor) included in farm models, financed by the project incentives and/or micro-credit from
other programs (PRONAF, State Rural Development Fund, State Forestry Program, NGOs, etc.). For the purpose of the
financial analysis and its effect on the cash flow, constant payments including a 4-5% annual interest rate was
considered when micro-credit was included, considering a grace period of one or two years.
Incremental costs considered in the financial analysis include: (i) on-farm expenditure for the adoption of improved
NRM practices; (ii) investment and operating costs for the processing of agricultural products; (iii) environmental,
social and economic prototype investments in representative microcatchments; (iv) technical assistance to farmers; and
(v) indirect costs affecting beneficiaries. The analysis estimates individual or aggregate family income for farmers and
communities adopting different soil conservation practices, which increase their own productivity and produce
downstream benefits. The analysis further identifies and quantifies the need for matching grants as the funding vehicle
to induce socially desired changes in production practices in the first years' required investments. Without incentives to
cover part of these costs, changes would likely not be adopted, given the binding household budget constraint. The
result of the financial analysis is summarized in Table 1.
Table 1: Financial Evaluation: Sample of Illustrative Farm Models
l_______________      On-farm Income (R$)     NYN.  (R$)     FIRR (%)
Type of Model          w/o    With project  Before   After     After
(Main products)   project              lo:ns/    loans/    loans/
incE!ntive  incentives incentives
I. Western Reeion  __        _  .    ._._____
Maize & beans       1,254     1,900       5.790    7,000      35.6
Grains, milk & beef  4,320    8,940      22,800    24,940     > 50
Maize & pork        1,792     5,200      14,160    17,340     39.8
Beef &maize         5,734     9,810      16,280    18,700     34,9
11. Planalto Region                           _                > 50
Maize & beans        685      2,300      9,090     10,640     > 50
Beef & grains       4,039     9,800      2C0,270   23,000     32.4
Milk, beef& grains  4,820     9,700      I.        18,180     30.4
III: Litoral Region                                          > 50
Milk, maize & forest  1,480   5,967     -1-,590    22,120     45.0
Onion & maize       1,820     4,210      1,144    13,750     > 50
Cassava, grains & milk  1,480  5,080     18,140    20,260     > 50
Banana              4,500    13,230      3'i,590   37,785     > 50
These models with sizes ranging from 10 to 50 hectares of land--with pronounced slopes in the range of 20 to 45% --
permit to illustrate the likely effect of the project. The stimulus of sustainable production systems and improvements to
the poor household economy based on conservative assumptions (progressive and limited expansion of herds or pace of
changes, realistic yields and prices), taking into account the subsistenct nature and risk minimizing strategy prevailing
on the targeted population, is expected to have a significant impact on farmers' income improving the sustainability of
farm resources. Labor requirements for the present and proposed production pattern and family availability and returns
per family-day of labor were also considered in order to estimate income before family labor requirements. Investments
considered in the proposed models generally implied the introduction of simple soil conservation techniques into the
traditional cultivation practices and crops (maize, beans, cassava, onion, banana, etc.). Even though diversification
towards higher value crops is a central part of the project's strategic approach, the available adapted production
technology and the market limitations make it unrealistic to assume massive crop pattem and production changes in the
short run. In some models, however, investments also implied moderate yield improvements and limited diversification
into permanent crops such as banana, palm trees and/or forestry. Some 70% of the SC territory is naturally suited for
reforestation or for perennial crops because of its steep relief. As in the first project, some farmers are expected to plant
short cycle tree species such as Eucalyptus or pine because of their relative rapid economic returns, providing a new



59
source of income and mitigating the use of native forest to meet their needs within the farm.
Farmers' net income would increase under the project from 50% to more than 300%, depending on the farmers' initial
conditions, farm size, cropping pattern and survival strategies. For the poorer farmers, i.e., those earning one minimum
salary or less, on-farm activities promoted by the project, besides contributing to improved NRM, would generate
significant production increases, mainly for self consumption. Farmers with off-farm oriented survival strategies would
benefit less from on-farm earnings increases but would probably increase their family income through project-financed
off-farm activities. Even farmers living in extreme poverty would benefit from project-improved NRM, food security
and on-farm income increases as a result of adequate technical support and productive investment. The financial
analysis confirms that: (i) the proposed investments are potentially attractive to smallholders; (ii) profitability varies
according to the different regions and agro-ecological zones; and (iii) the marginal return to labor is higher than the
opportunity labor wage rate of each region.
Economic Analysis
Improvement in environmental values (e.g., carbon sequestration, controlling the timing and volume of water flows,
water quality or reduced soil erosion levels), together with the associated gains in on-farm productivity and production
levels (e.g., job generation and poverty reduction) are some of the economic benefits envisaged independently of whom
the beneficiaries are. For simplicity, however, the economic benefits estimated would be primarily associated with
increased agricultural production and farmers income. Benefits from carbon sequestration are also estimated. Other
non quantified benefits under the project include: (i) positive environmental externalities at the watershed level,
including improved water quality, water availability, flood control, reduced sedimentation, biodiversity conservation,
etc.; (ii) food security, nutrition and health as a result of increased and diversified production; (iii) effects of
strengthened farmers' capacity and community organizations; (iv) promotion of revolving funds with the recovery of
the financial resources used in on-farm productive investments; and (v) investments in social capital.
Besides the increases in production and income produced at the farmers' level, the IERR was estimated taking into
account only one of the project externalities: the contribution to climate change mitigation through sequestration of
carbon. Project activities enhancing carbon sequestration would include: reforestation, introduction of agroforestry
systems and conservation agriculture that increases soil organic carbon. It is conservatively estimated that for each ha
going into direct planting from traditional cultivation, an average of 0.5 to I ton of C per ha/year is trapped from the
atmosphere. In the case of reforestation, trees are estimated to capture at least an average of 10 ton of carbon per ha per
year. The results of the economic analysis are given in Table 2.



60
TABLE 2: Proiect Summarv
ECONOMIC BUDGET (AGGREGATED)
(In RS Million)
Without
proiect                               With Project
I to l5     1        2        3         4        5       6     10     15
Main Production
Annual crops                               164.4    164.4   164.9     168.3    177.9    195.1  215.9  242.1  242.1
Perennial crops (fruits)                    4.1      4.1      4.1       4.1      4.3      4.7    5.7    9.8    9.8
Forest products                               -             -            -         -        -    0.1    3.3   10.5
Livestock products                         102.8    102.8   103.8     110.0    129.2    166.8  218.7  340.3  341.8
Agro-industrial products                      -        -        -       2.8     20.1     64.3  119.0  164.9  164.9
Swine-derived products                        -        -        -       0.8      3.3      8.7   15.0   21.5   21.5
Dairy products                                -        -        -       0.8      3.2      6.4    9.4   10.5   10.5
Conserved products (fruits, vegetables)       -        -        -       0.5      2.5      5.9    9.2   11.2   11.2
Indirect benefits (carbon sequestered)        -        -        -       0.1      0.4      1.2    2.9   11.9   15.3
Sub-total Main Production                     271.4    271.4   272.9     287.5     340.8    453.1  595.9  815.4  827.6
On-Farm Use                                   -        -      0.2       1.7      5.4     10.8   15.8   20.9   20.9
Net Value Of Production                       271.4    271.4    272.6    285.8     335.4    442.3  580.2  794.5  806.6
Production Cost
On-farm Investment Costs                      -       1.9    29.0      92.8    152.1     148.0  80.8    0.3      -
Operating
Fertilizers                            13.8     13.8    13.9      14.7      17.5     24.0   34.7   64.4  64.8
Annual crops                              -        -     0.0       0.3       1.3      3.0    4.5    3.8   3.8
Perennial crops                           -        -       -       0.0      0.2       0.4    0.7    0.8   0.8
Othercosts                              2.7      2.7     2.9       6.2      22.8     62.5  111.4  151.3  151.3
Forest products                           -        -       -       0.0       0.0      0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1
Seedsandseedlings                       9.1      9.1     9.2       9.7      11.3     13.7   16.3   21.2  21.3
Livestock products                        -        -       -       1.5       6.9     19.4   37.8   75.3  75.5
Herbicides                              9.6      9.6     9.6       9.4       8.9      8.4    8.5    9.1   9.1
Insecticides                            9.3      9.3     9.3       9.4       9.4      9.0    8.2    7.2   7.2
Fungicides                              0.1      0.1     0.1       0.1      0.1       0.2    0.3    0.4   0.4
Machineryand equipment                  6.7      6.7     6.7       7.1      8.1      10.3   14.1   25.9  26.1
Animal traction                         5.3      5.3     5.3       5.5       5.8      6.4    7.1    8.5   8.6
Animal foodandother inputs             11.8     11.8    12.1      14.0      19.2     27.5   35.6   43.6  43.7
Labor                                  96.8     96.8    97.1      98.4     101.4    104.7  107.1  114.3  114.5
Recruited labor (agro-industry)           -        -     0.0       0.4       2.5      7.2   12.9   17.5   17.5
Sub-Total Recruited Labor                96.8     96.8    97.1      98.9     103.9    112.0  120.0  131.8  132.0
Sub-total Operating Costs                 165.1     165.1   166.3     176.8    215.4    296.8  398.9  543.4  544.6
Sub-Total Production Cost                     165.1    167.1    195.3    269.6     367.4    444.9  479.7  543.8  544.6
Project Administration                            -     15.0     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0    5.0      -     -
OUTFLOWS                                  165.1     182.1   205.3     279.6    377.4    454.9  484.7  543.8  544.6
Cash Flow                                     106.2     89.3    67.3       6.2     -42.1    -12.5   95.4  250.8  262.1
IRR= 18.9%, NPV = 188.47
Economic return calculations included the cost of all project components: (i) incremental on-farm productive
investment and recurrent expenditure for the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems to be promoted; (ii)
technical assistance to farmers; (iii) community development costs; anid (iv) institutional strengthening and project
administration costs. The estimate of benefits took into account incremental production and lower farm unit costs but
not off-farm benefits except for the carbon sequestration issue explained above. Costs and benefits were adjusted to
reflect opportunity costs, parity and/or shadow prices, while all trans;fers including taxes and subsidies would be
excluded from the analysis. The overall evaluation has been undertaken by aggregating individual results weighted by
their importance and relevance in the estimated project area.



61
The IERR has been estimated in 19%. This estimate is conservative, since it does not take into account the benefits
accruing from reduced soil run-off and erosion. Furthermore, the analysis did not capture "without project" productivity
losses (project benefits) due to declining soil fertility. Benefits derived from many PAs and income generating
investments included in the costs were not calculated like in the case of housing and infrastructure improvements,
sanitation and reduced contamination of domestic water sources, etc.
Fiscal Analysis
The major concern of resource for poor rural families is food security followed by improvement of their welfare by
eliminating poverty. In contrast, socially optinum management of natural resources seeks to enhance the natural capital
of the ecosystem in terms of carbon sequestration, reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, conservation of biodiversity
and the improvement/conservation of water and soils quality. There are not many win-win situations in which both the
welfare of the rural poor and the quality of the environment are enhanced. When from a small farmer's viewpoint,
alternative technologies merely break even or are difficult to be adopted because of financial restrains, but from a global
perspective are highly beneficial, appropriate incentives are needed to persuade farmers to adopt these technologies.
These incentives require the use of public resources, which will normally be compensated by incremental tax revenues
and fiscal savings resulting from project activities.
Most of the project's incremental production is subject to the ICMS 12% tax. Sales of goods and services and income
tax revenues from incremental profits from on and off-farm production and service activities in the project area are also
expected to be significant, as is the case of the strong export poultry/pig production chains were several taxes and
income transfers to other sectors are evident. Maintenance costs of rural roads will also be reduced significantly by
better erosion control falling by as much as 80% according to previous estimates. Furthermore, significant reduction in
water turbidity in the project microcatchments will also reduce the need for aluminum sulphate to clean it up to standard
levels needed for domestic supply. For simplicity, the fiscal analysis only considered the expected 12% ICMS value of
the incremental production. According to the estimations, its present value--using 12% as discount rate--is equivalent to
the present value of the foreseen fiscal project costs. Consequently, with the consideration of the other sources of fiscal
benefits, it can be concluded that the project would also have a positive effect over the public accounts.
Conclusions
Poverty reduction is Brazil's main development challenge and will require labor-intensive output growth, inclusion of
the poor (specially IP and women) in the development process and more effective targeting of social services. Poverty is
concentrated in rural areas where the sustainable management of watersheds is vital for their living conditions. The
project will assist the Government of Santa Catarina to reduce poverty by improving management of natural resources.
Employment and income generating opportunities will be created, decentralizing resource allocation and decision-
making to small microcatchment community organizations, leveraging resources mobilized at the local levels and
expanding stakeholders participation and social capital in rural areas. It should also result in benefits at the national and
global levels which would not be captured by farmers but that are fairly significant: reduced downstream sedimentation,
more regular river flows, reduced risks of flooding and contribution to reduce the threat of global warming. Examples
of off-farm benefits include: reduced losses or costs related to controlled soil erosion and sediments depositions in
downstream dams or irrigation structures; avoided property, production and life losses from periodical floods and
landslides; costs reductions due to better health environmental conditions; or reduced O&M costs for downstream water
uses (hydropower, recreation on rivers and reservoirs, municipal and industrial uses, etc.).
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the increase in physical assets will be complemented
with improvements in social and human capital through training, the community participative approach for development
and technical support components. About 30% of project resources are likely to be channeled to support community
development activities and technical support to farmers and their organizations. Studies, development plans, works,
training and support for management of revolving funds will promote participation and economies of scale on project
interventions. As a result of project activities, production and new commercial activities including small businesses and
enterprises are expected to develop, which would have a positive impact on local employment. The project will also
promote private sector technical assistance and community development services to marginal communities, which are
expected to increase the impact of project-financed on-farm investments.



62
The analysis confirms that the financial attractiveness of the proposed. changes in the household production units is
robust since these changes contribute to increase family incomes by more than 100% at investments maturity. However,
since small farmers have survival needs that prevent them from undertaking the first year's required investments, it is
necessary to offer incentives in order to cover some medium-term maturity conservation investments. Given that most
poor farmers have daily pressures, the time horizons go only to the next season (the main reason explaining why the
land is overexploited), some of them are either unwilling or incapable of investing and they are forced to settle with
immediate benefits. From the farmers' viewpoint the project's propDsed alternative technologies are out of their
possibility to afford and some investment merely breaks even if only the private benefits are considered. Since from a
national and global perspective they are clearly beneficial, appropriate incentives as the ones considered in the project
are justified to persuade them to adopt these technologies.



63
Brazil
Santa Catarina
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 5
Financial Summary
(in million US$)
Years Ending December 31
2002       2003      2004       2005      2006       2007      Total
Total PROJECT COSTS                13.1      16.1       18.3      21.9      20.7       17.4    107.5
Total Investment             11.5      15.0       17.1      20.8       19.6      16.2    100.2
Total Recurrent Costs        1.6'       1.1        1.2       1.1        1.1       1.2      7.3
Financing Sources
IBRD                       7.4      10.2       10.6      13.2       11.8       9.6     62.8
GOSC                       5.6       6.0        7.7       8.7        8.9       7.8     44.7
% of total project costs
IBRD                     59%        63%       58%        60%       57%        55%      59%
GOSC                     41%        37%       42%        40%       43%        45%      410/c
iIncludes front-end fee



64
Brazil
Santa Catarina
Natural Resource Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
A. General
All procurement of goods under the project will be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines, Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Consultants will be employed in accordance with
the Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The methods to be used for
procurement are described below, and the estimated amounts for each method are summarized in Tables A and A.1.
The threshold contract values for the use of each method are established in Table B.
B. Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
Project administration and monitoring will be the responsibility of the Project Management Unit (PMU) established
under SDA, which implemented the LM II and accumulated substantial experience in administrating Bank-financed
projects. A procurement capacity assessment of the PMU/SDA and the other implementing agencies was conducted by
the Project Team's Procurement Accredited Staff and available in the project Files. The "Overall Procurement Risk"
was assessed as "average".  Procurement responsibilities will be carried out mainly by the PMU, but other
implementing agencies--mainly EPAGRI, SDA, SDM and FATMA--will also be responsible for the procurement of
sundry items and the contracting of consultancy services under close coordination with the PMU. Also under close
coordination of the PMU, beneficiaries will be responsible for the procurement of small goods, works and services to
implement subprojects financed under the RIF. To that end, the PMU has hired a full-time Procurement Officer with
experience with multilateral financed projects who will be assisted by three administrative staff. Also, implementing
agencies have establish procurement units with experienced staff trained in Bank procedures and policies. PMU will
also hire short-term consultants well versed in Bank procurement policies and procedures to complement PMU capacity
and to assist implementing agencies and beneficiaries as needed. In addition, the staff from the PMU and from the
procurement units of all implementing agencies are being trained in financial and procurement training as stipulated in
the PMU Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (See Attachment I to this Annex). Procurement arrangements,
responsibilities and standard bidding documents, as agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government, and to be
used under the project, are part of the Operational Manual; the latter was presented to the Bank at Loan Negotiations.
C. Procurement Arrangements
The procurement packaging indicates that procurement of goods under the project will follow International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) for vehicles, National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures for office information technology
equipment and shopping for smaller sundry goods. For few small civil works, the project will follow the three
quotation procedures. Matching grant under the RIF would abide by the procedures described below.
The Project will provide matching grants (US$72.3 million) to legal].y constituted rural community associations to
finance small-scale sub-projects, finance technical assistance and training for institutional strengthening. Due to its
demand-driven characteristic and the fact that in most cases sub-grants will be a combination of works, goods, services,
and operating costs, it is not possible to accurately break down this component at this point in small works, goods,
consultancy services, and operating costs; the latter to be a maximum of 10% of economic subprojects. Procurement of



65
goods and works under sub-projects costing less than US$50,000 each and implemented in remote areas will be carried
out through shopping and direct contracting in the case of goods and three quotations, direct contracting and community
participation in the case of works. To the extent possible, shopping and three quotations will be encouraged for goods
and works, respectively. Also, to the extent possible, individual consultants will be selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and services by the comparison of three providers; however, on specific cases and to
increase the utilization of local know-how, direct contracting methods will also be used. The norms to ensure a
competitive process to be followed in the selection of individual consultants, services and the procurement of goods and
works are included in the Operational Manual, copy of which was received at negotiations. This procurement procedure
used also under the LM II for the grant component is appropriate because most sub-projects will: (a) be small and/or
implemented in scattered or remote areas, and in a number of cases it would be difficult to obtain competitive proposals;
(b) be managed directly by rural communities, who would also have a participative role in the execution of the works
and in the provision of local materials; (c) be selected on the basis of willingness of the beneficiary communities to
contribute to and physically supervise works execution; and (d) provide a vehicle for communities to play an active role
in the local development process. A standard grant agreement acceptable to the Bank will be used to transfer grant
funds to the beneficiaries under conditions that will ensure implementation in accordance to the Operational Manual.
Standard formats for grant agreements are also included in the Operational Manual.
Procurement of Works (US$0.22 million)
Works contracts (other than contracts under the grant component, costing less than US$50,000 in scattered or remote
areas) estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.22 million, will be
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from a minimum of three
qualified local contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation will include a detailed description of the
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award will be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Procurement of Goods (US$4.13 million)
Goods estimated to cost more than US$350,000 per contract will be awarded on the basis of ICB acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 but less than US$350,000 equivalent per contract will be
awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. The standard bidding documents for NCB and ICB
agreed upon between the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil will be used. These documents are part of the
Project Operational Manual, received at Loan Negotiations.
Procurement of goods (other than contracts under the grant component, costing less than US$50,000 in scattered or
remote areas) estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.61 million, will be
procured under shopping arrangements which will require price comparison from at least three qualified suppliers. All
such goods will be procured at a reasonable prices, taking into account also other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts.



66
Consultant Services (US$18.62 million)
Firms
Contracts with firms will be awarded following a Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process, in accordance with
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines. However, services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract for training, extension services, specialized studies and specific research, may be procured following
Consultant's Qualification Selection procedures in accordance with provisions in paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines. Contracts for annual audits, other small contracts costing less than US$100,000 per contract for
small engineering design, traveling services, event logistics among others, would be contracted on the Bases of Least
Cost Selection in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.1 and 2.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. In addition,
services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be
procured on the basis of Single Source Selection procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 and 3.11 of the
Consultant Guidelines, to a maximum of US$1.0 million, including those contracts under IRC. The Financial
Management System could, exceptionally, be contracted from an experienced Consultant firm with substantial Bank
finance project experience.
The loan would finance contracts with consulting firms for, among others, studies, institutional strengthening, technical
assistance, research, capacity building for the beneficiary communities, the PMU and the other implementing agencies,
and study tours, training, and workshops. Services included under training incorporate travel, subsistence, and logistics
to be procured using administrative procedures reviewed by the Bank and. found to be acceptable. This procedures will
be reflected in the Operational Manual.
Individuals
The consulting services required for the project include specialized advisory services, trainers and services to support
project administration, monitoring, such as MIS experts, which are appropriate for individual consultants. Individual
consultants will be selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and retained in accordance with the
provisions of Paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Prior review thresholds and Procurement Supervision
The Bank's procurement review will be in accordance with Appendix I of the Guidelines for Procurement and the
provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The proposed thresholds for prior review are summarized in Table B.
Prior review will be required for all ICB and for the first two NCB processes. In addition, the Bank will prior review
the first three contracts procured through shopping procedures for goods and works, respectively. Contracts with
consulting firms estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, and with individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 or
more will be subject to the Bank's prior review. All other contracts will be subject to post-review. Assignments of a
critical nature and amendments raising contract values above the said thresholds would also be subject to prior review.
Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be overali. low, it will be compensated in several ways.
First, reviews of procurement by community contracting will be carried out yearly during project implementation, under
TORs agreed during project Appraisal and reflected in the Operational Manual. Second, cost comparisons of similar
sub-projects will be conducted using the project's MIS in order to detect possible procurement problems and determnine
whether prices paid under community procurement were reasonable. Third, the project's annual physical performance
evaluation will verify the physical implementation of sub-projects and analyze procurement issues. Finally, during
Bank supervision, additional random reviews would be conducted of sub-projects, including field visits and review of
sub-project documentation.
While there are procedures to prevent fraud and corruption under national laws, there is no law that enforces ethical
performance of consultants to be hired to assist in project executions. Th,e existing public servants' Code of Ethics be
part of the material annexed to the Operational Manual together witlh the procurement material. Approval and
dissemination of the Operational Manual will be condition for Loan Effectiveness.



67
D. Procurement Planning
The PMU will be responsible to prepare the Procurement Plan in conjunction with the executing agencies. A draft plan
for the procurement of goods and hiring of consultants for the implementation of the project was prepared during
Appraisal and revised procurement plan presented to the Bank and agreed at Loan Negotiations. However, given the
demand-driven characteristic of the project, this plan may suffer changes as a result of the first stages of project
implementation and hence it would be reviewed every six months. All implementing entities will maintain project
records to systematically record all procurement transactions in the project. PMU will be responsible for consolidating
the project procurement needs and to ensure that the implementing agencies perform their responsibilities efficiently
and effectively.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million)
Expenditure Category                 Method of Procurement                 Total Cost
Other      N.B.FV      (including
ICB       NCB                               contingencies)
1. Civil Works3                                        0.22                      0.22
(0.18)                    (0.18)
2. Goods and Materials4           1.66       0.86      1.61                      4.13
(1.25)     (0.55)     (1.01)                    (2.9)
3. Consulting Services,                                18.62                    18.62
Studies and Training5
(10.75)                   (10.75)
4. Grants6                                             77.22                    77.22
(48.46)                   (48.46)
5. Recurrent Costs                                                 6.71          6.71
6. Front-end Fee                                        0.6                       0.6
(0.6)       (---)         (0.6)
Total                          1.66       0.86      97.67       6.71         107.5
(1.25)     (0.55)    (61.00)       (--)        (62.80)
'Totals include taxes and contingencies.
2 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
3Small civil works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 would be procured under lump sum, fixed price
4Vehicles, Equipment contracts estimated to cost less than USS100,000 would be procured under price comparison
5Consultancy Services estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 may be procured following Least Cost Selection procedures; where appropriate.
Single Source Selection may be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 where appropriate and with the Bank's prior agreement.
6Rural Sub-projects to be procured through shopping, direct contracting and/or community participation. Goods and works are estimated at about
US$58.0 million



68
Table A.1: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ equivalent)
Method of Selection
QCBS        CQ         LCS       Other        Total Cost
1. Training    4.22        0.30       0.90      0.30              5.72
(2.41)      (0.17)     (0.52)    (0.17)           (3.27)
2. Firms       7.49        1.87       0.88      1.16              11.40
(4.29)      (1.07)     (0.50)    (0.67)           (6.53)
3. Individual                                   1.23              1.23
(0.70)           (0.70)
Total      11.71       2.17       1.78      2.69             18.35
(6.7)       (1.24)     (1.02)    (1.54)          (10.50)
Note:  QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
LCS = Least Cost Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants' Guidelines), single source and
others.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value         PFrocurement       Contracts Subject to
Expenditure Category          Threshold               Method             Prior Review
(US$ )
1. Works                        > 100,000                 NCB                 2 first
<100,000            Three Quotations          3 first
2. Goods                        >350,000                  ICB                   All
>100,000 but <350,000          NCB                 2 first
<100,000                Shopping              3 first
3. Consulting Services:
Firms                           > 100,000                QCBS'                  All
<100,000             QCBS/CQS/LCS             None
Single Source2            All
Individuals                      >50,000           Guidelines, Section V        All
_ ______________________         <50,000           Guidelines, Section V       None
4. Grants                                            Shopping, Direct
<50,000             Contracting and/or        None
. ______________________  _______________________   com m tm ity  participation
2Other than under the matching grants financed under the RIF.



69
Financial Management, Auditing and Disbursement Arrangements
Country Issues
A Country Financial Assessment has recently been conducted for Brazil and a draft report has been prepared with the
final report to be completed following a workshop that will include Bank and relevant government officials. The report
presents findings that state that Brazil has sound financial management and accounting practices which allows for the
transparent budget elaboration and its execution. The report provides adequate assurance that there are no major
accounting or financial management accountability issues. There are no issues at country level which could negatively
affect the use of funds.
Strengths and Weaknesses.
The PMU established within SDA will be responsible for project coordination and execution. The PMU has been
organized and established based on the successful experience of the LM II project to respond to the workload required
to implement the project activities. It has allocated experienced staff (a number of whom have previous financial and
accounting experience implementing the LM II project). Hence, existing capacity (e.g. knowledge of Bank procedures,
available experienced staff, basic accounting and financial control procedures) from the LM II project, and made
available to the proposed project meets basic financial management standards as required in OP/BP 10.02 of August
1997. In addition, and given the descentralized nature of the project, the PMU will contract a specialized firm under
agreed TOR to enhance and automate the existing system. The agreed implementation schedule (see Apendix I to this
Annex) envisioned that the second FMR and onwards will be automatically generated by the automated financial
management information system to be implemented under the project. A strong point for the establishment of the
financial management system for the project is that the PMU is counting on very experienced managers who were
responsible for the implementation of the LM II to set up all financial, monitoring and procurement systems for the
proposed project, and its commitment to implement the agreed Institutional Strengthening Action Plan set forth in
Appendix I of this Annex.
Implementing Entity and Staffing
SDA has created the PMU to be responsible for project coordination and execution. As stated above, the PMU
incorporates experienced staff who managed the sucesfull LM II project. This staff integrated also the Working Group
in charge of project preparation. Their experience in financial management and disbursement acquired during the
implementation of the LM II ensures familiarization with Bank procedures and capacity and experience to implement
the proposed project and to implement the financial management system require to initiate the project and to prepare the
agreed FMRs. However, there is a need to enhance and further automate the existing FMIS to better respond to the
more decentralized nature of the project. (see Appendix I to this Annex)
Disbursement and Special Account Procedures
The PMU will prepare, on a transitional basis, FMRs from the existing financial system and ledgers, on the agreed
format. The agreed Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (Appendix I to this Annex) ensures that the second FMR
and onwards will be automatically generated by the automated financial management system to be put in place under
the project. However, these FMRs will be mainly produced for project management purposes. Disbursements will be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for contracts for goods above US$350,000.00 or
equivalent, for contract for works above US$100,000 and equivalent, for contracts with consulting firms above
US$100,000.00 or equivalent and for contracts with individual consultants above US$50,000.00. In those cases, full
documentation has to be attached to the Summary Sheet (SS). The information required for the compilation of SOEs
would be maintained by the PMU and executing agencies in the MIS data base. The SOEs will be submitted to the Bank
as per cash flow requirements. In order to facilitate project implementation, the State of Santa Catarina Finance
Secretariat will establish a special account in US Dollars in a commercial bank, with a maximum authorized allocation
of US$3.0 million, so as to initiate disbursements under the traditional disbursement methodology.



70
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The State of Santa Catarina, in the elaboration of its budget, is obliged to conform to Law 4320/64 govemning the
elaboration of public budgets. Consequently, the State budget is elaborated according to State law in the context of the
multi-year budget and validated in accordance with the State Budgetary Guidelines Law (LDO) that highlight the State
Govemment's priorities. The Secretary of Finance estimates revenue, elaborates the budgetary allocations for other
State secretaries in order that planning at this level can be carried out. The Budget Directorate of the Secretary of
Finance consolidates the budgets submitted by all State secretaries and this is inputted into the ORC-the State's
financial and budget execution system. Once consolidated, the budget is sent to the State legislature for approval and
subsequent approval by the Governor. Once approved, the next step is the detailing of expense tables that bring
physical and financial data and detailed accounting codes. These tables will include the Project's components relevant
to its financial control and execution. ORC is a system successfully used by the State. It integrates budget and budget
execution permitting users to identify expenditures per program and source of funds. The system generates financial
and accounting reports. The SDA has included in its institutional structure a Planning Directorate that is responsible for
budget elaboration, a financial directorate that has an accounting department that consolidates expenditure statements.
This Department has a financial manager who is also a qualified accountant. In addition, the budgetary process within
the SDA is well defined and the budget for the Project in CY2002 was published in the State Budget Law, thereby
guaranteeing counterpart funding for the project.
Reporting and Monitoring
The existing financial management system will generate FMRs, which fonnat has been agreed. A comprehensive list of
project indicators has been agreed and their physical monitoring has beeii designed as part of the project preparation.
The components that will generate these indicators will also be included in the financial system as line items thereby
permitting the project team to verify with cross-cutting data the Project's implementation progress. Once in place, the
automated financial reporting system will also produce FMRs automatically which will contribute to speed up audit and
accounting report submission while assuring accuracy.
Flow of Funds
The flow of funds of the RIF Category (Table D), which will account for just under 75% of the loan amount, builds on
the sucessful experience of the LM II project and will be as follows. Bereficiaries will prepare subprojects and preset
them to the municipal, regional and state deliberative commissions as described in C.4 (Page 13) and Annex 12, which
has to be compatible with microcatchment development plans approved by the MAs. If subproject is in line with the
requirements then the project is approved by the deliberative bodies at mumicipal, regional or state level, depending on
the size of the sub-project. The disbursement can occur in two ways: (i) the beneficiary can peasants pay in advance for
the eligible expenditures, present the documentation to PMU - regional facilitator and get reimbursed, or (ii) the RIF can
advance the funds in installments to the beneficiaries based on limits to be established in the Operational Manual
depending on the type of the project and would be deposited into the beneficiary's bank account. The beneficiary's
would submit the documentation on the expenditures and based on documentation of the first installment received and
as they present the documentation they would receive the second and so on.
The RIF will pre finance the funds require for the project and it will be reimbursed out from the special account once
they have prepared the SOEs and documentation containing the eligible expenditures. The existing RDF in the SDA is
currently equipped with a financial management system developed under the LM II which is capable to monitor
individually, by beneficiary, the funds advanced, its purpose and status of project implementation.
Accounting and Disbursement Arrangements: SDA through the PMU and the executing agencies, mainly EPAGRI,
will be responsible for receiving the documentation and sending it to thc PMU. EPAGRI staff at the municipal and
regional level will validate the physical implementation of the work plan umdertaken by the beneficiaries. The regional
branches of EPAGRI will submit the docs to the PMU. The format of SOE,s to disburse the funds under this category, is
being design and it will be discussed at negotiations and be submitted to our Loan Department.
Internal Audit Arrangements: The implementation of the FIR will be mo:nitored physically and financially by the Ma,
the deliberative bodies and EPAGRI personnel allocated at the municipalities and regional branches of EPAGRI.



71
The flow of funds among all the executing agencies receiving project funds and making payments to the beneficiaries or
suppliers was reviewed at appraisal. The PMU will be responsible to prepare the SOEs and request the replenishment
of the Special Account. The enhanced FMS to be put in place under the project will further facilitate the flow of
information (accounting, monitoring and procurement) among the executing agencies, the PMU and the deliberative
bodies at State, regional and municipal levels (see also Annex 2 Component 4 Page 47).
Management Capacity of the Executing Agencies
The management capacity assessment is summarized in Table C, below.
Table C: Management Capacity of the Executing Agencies
Topic            EPAGI         SDM            FATMA         FDR            Sec. Finance
Organizational   Good          Good           Under Review  Good           Good
Structure
Staffing         Good          Good          Need       to  Good           Good
allocate Staff
Information      Good          Good           Good          Good           Good
System
Accounting       Good          Good           Good          Good           Good
Procedures
Audit            Good          Good           Good          Good           Good
Financial        Good          Good           Good          Good           Good
Reporting
SOEs Procedures  Good          Good           Good          Good           Good
FATMA needs to allocate additional staff to respond to the workload when the project becomes effective.
Information System
Based on the experience of the LM II project, SDA has in place a semi-automatic financial, monitoring and
procurement system that allows the project to respond, on a transitional basis, to all project information needs.
However, to better respond to the more descentralized nature of the project, SDA's financial management system will
be enhanced and further automated to incorporate and integrate internal controls, records of project assets, accounting,
procurement, auditing and means to authomatically reconcile the project's Special Account to conform with the Bank's
Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (1995), the Bank's Operations Policy and Procedures 10.02 of
July 1996 and revised financial management standards as in OP/BP 10.02 of August 1997. The PMU financial and
technical staff would visit other states implementing similar projects-- like Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, Sao Paulo--in
Brazil so as to exchange implementation experience, and to assist them in developing the new system with the
assistance of a qualified firm.  There is a qualified firm based in Florian6polis which has designed and provided
technical assistance to a number of other Bank financed projects, i.e. Parana (natural resources management and
poverty alleviation and education), and Rio Grande do Sul.
SDA was responsible for implementing ML II, which was successfully implemented, therefore it has the capacity to
implement the proposed project. However, and taking into consideration that technology has substantially evolved in
the later years since LM II was implemented, the SDA intends to strengthen the current capacity by putting in place a
more advanced and sophisticated system during the first year of project implementation. TOR to contract a firm to
develop such a system suitable for the conditions of the State was agreed and the timetable for its implementation is
included in the PMU Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (See Appendix I to this Annex).
Auditing
Following arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual financial audit of the project accounts for the
period January I to December 31 of the year will be carried out by an Independent Auditor, acceptable to the Bank to
perform auditing of Bank- financed projects. During project implementation, the State General Controller could fulfill
such a role, after the Bank's assessment of its competence and capacity. SDA through the PMU will submit the annual



72
project financial audits to the Bank no later than June 30 in the year following the year for which the project accounts
have been reported. The Auditor's draft TOR has been agreed and included in the Project File. It includes the issuance
of a management letter on internal controls six months after effectiveness. The format of the project fnancial statements
has been established. The format of the project financial statements has been established and agreed with State
authorities.
Supervision Plan
A Bank supported financial management and procurement workshop for staff at PMU and of other implementing
agencies took place early in project start-up. Supervision missions will be carried out at least twice a year. However
during the first year of the project, it is envisioned that three full missions might be required. In addition, short stop-
over missions would be also carried out to cover different subjects taking advantage of frequent missions to Brazil of
task team members to work on other projects. In addition, procurement and financial management supervision may be
provided through the CMU Implementation Team that is fully staffed to carry out these functions.
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Project Category
Expenditure Category                       Allocation of    Financing Percentage
Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
1. Civil Works (other than under Rural Subproject          0.16             73 %
Grants)
2. Goods (e.g., vehicles and equipment, other than         2.70             65 %
under Rural Subproject)
3. Rural Investment Fund (Rural Subproject Grants)        46.90         75% of expenditures of
goods, works, services
and operating costs under
Rural subprojects
4. (a) Consulting Services, Studies and Training          10.40             56 %
(b) Audits                                               0.10             56%
6. Fee                                                     0.62            100% of amount due
7. Unallocated                                              1.91
TOTAL                                                     62.80



73
Annex 6, Appendix 1
PMU Institutional Strengthening Program
Activities                                    How                   When
1. Project Management
a. Establishment of the PMU                                   Government Decree          January 30, 2002
No. 3954
b.  Allocation of qualified and experienced Staff to the PMU (including Government Regulation  March 5, 2002
financial, procurement and disbursement staff) for main posts.  N. 221
c. Nomination of competent staff by implementing entities (SDA, Regulation by  each  SDA, March 2002
SDM, FATMA and EPAGRI) to be designated to their respective EPAGRI, SDM and FATMA
project Procurement Units
d. Contracting of Specialized Financial and Procurement Staff for the ICEPA to contract staff under March 2002
PMU                                                       TOR satisfactory to the Bank
e.  Contracting Specialized Staff to assist PMU with procurement ICEPA to contract staff under When  and  as
activities during peak project activity.                      TOR satisfactory to the Bank  required
2 Training
a. Training of staff of EPAGRI, FATMA SDM, SDA, ICEPA, FDR, Seminar with participation of  March 6, 2002
Procuradoria do Estado e Tribunal de Contas, on  Bank financial, Bank staff
procurement policies and procedures.
b. Participation of technical and specialized staff on seminars on Bank Seminars specially designed  May 2002
financial and disbursement policies and procedures.           for   the   project   with
participation of the Bank
c.  Follow-up training of technical and specialized staff on Bank Regional seminars offered by  When and as
financial, procurement and disbursement policies and procedures.  the Bank and/or SEAIN    offered but at
least two during
first year of
project and one
thereafter
3 Financial Management System
a.  Revised Terms of Reference and proposed contract for the Submitted to the Bank for "no
development of FMS.                                           objection"                   April 2, 2002
b.   Contracting the firm to develop the FMS (Including financial, Based on qualification of the  One month after
physical and procurement planning and monitoring)             firm                          effectiveness
c. Initiate installation of the authorized improved accounting system  Contract  signed  and Four months after
substantial work  underway   effectiveness
with  at  least  accounting
system completed
d. Full Implementation of FMS (including detailed monitoring of With assistance of consulting Seven months
procurement procedures and production of FMRs)                firm contracted            after effectiveness
4 Planning
a. Final Procurement Plan for the first two years of the Project  Procurement plan  finalized  March 26, 2002
and approved
c. Revised detailed Global Procurement plan                   Global   Procurement  Plan  Six months after
revised and approved          effectiveness



74
Brazil
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Rteduction Project - Santa Catarina
Annex 7
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                 Planned                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project        9 months
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)   August 27, 2001        August 27, 2001
Appraisal mission departure           January 10, 200.2      January 10, 2002
Negotiations                           March  4, 2002.       March 25,2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness         July   28, 2002 
Prepared by: Secretariat for Rural Development and Agriculture of Santa Catarina
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff Team:
Name                            Specialty
Graciela Lituma            Task Team Leader
Judith Lisansky            Social Scientist/Anthropologist
Chris Parel                Senior Country Officer
Carlos Velez               Lead Specialist - Water
Edward Bresnyan            Community Participation Spicialist
(Consultant)
Tulio Correa               Financial Specialist
Anemarie Proite            Procurement Specialist
Marta Molares-HalbErg      Senior Counsel
Esme Jaya Abedin           Operations Analyst
Karen Ravenelle            Team Assistant
Peer Reviewers:
Daniel Gross               Lead Anthropologist LCSE,',            l
Nadim Khouri               Sr. Natural Res. Mgt. Spec. (LCSES)
FAO/CP Team consisting of the following Staff:
Name                            Specialty
Katia Medeiros             Environmental Specialist
Ivo Marzall                Agronomist Consultant
Nestor Bragagnolo          Microcatchment Specialist Consultant
Alberto Costa              Rural Sociologist Consultant
Juan Morelli               Agricultural Economist Consultant



75
Brazil
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Santa Catarina
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Draft Operational Manual (including Sub-projects/grants Operational Manual)
* Components Implementation Plan, Costs and Timetable (Costab)'
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Social Assessment (available in Portuguese)*
* Indigenous Peoples Plan (available in Portuguese)*
* Working Papers*: Targeting; Training; Rural Extension and Technical Assistance; Adaptive Research; Environmental
Education
* Government of Santa Catarina draft Project Concept Documents (available in Portuguese and dated August 2000,
including draft problem tree and logframe, September 2001, November 2001, and February 2002). The latest version
includes the following Annexes and Working Papers': Anexo 1: Matriz L6gica Revisada (Project Design Summary);
Anexo 3: Custos e Financiamento do Projeto; Anexo 4: Analise Financeira e Econ6mica do Projeto; Anexo 5:
Focaliza,ao do Projeto; Anexo 6: Metodologia Participativa; Anexo 7: Educa,ao Ambiental; Anexo 8: Extensao
Rural; Anexo 9: Pesquisa e Estudos; Anexo 10: Inversoes Rurais - Fundo de Desenvolvimento; Documento de
Trabalho: Avaliagao da experiencia da Epagri com 700 empreendimentos assistidos (Estudo de caso); Documento de
Trabalho: Experiencia do Fundo de Desenvolvimento Rural (RIF); Anexo 11: Avalia,ao do Impacto Ambiental;
Anexo 12: Administragao do Projeto; Anexo 13: Monitoramento, Avaliagao e Divulgagao; Documento de Trabalho:
Indicadores de Desempenho do Projeto; Anexo 14: Componente Gestao Ambiental; Anexo 15: Estratdgia Populag6es
Indfgenas; Anexo 16: Avaliagao Social
* Project Economic and Financial Analysis (Anexo 4: Analise Financeira e Econ6mica do Projeto" - Farrnod).
*   Ajuste Fiscal (provided by the Government)
* NGOs proposals for the project
* Bank's Procurement Assessment
* Bank's Financial Management Assessment
C. Other (Background Studies)
Mid-Term Review and ICR of the Land Management II Project
*Including electronic files.



76
Brazil
Santa Catarina
Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Between
Expected and
Actual
Orieinal Amount in US$ Mill.              Disbursements
Project                 Project Name                  FY    IBRD     IDA    GRANT    Cancel.  Undisb.   Orig.      Frm
ID ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,l.                                                     Rev'd
P006559  (BF-R)SP.TSP                                  98     45.0                              25.0     25.0
P043873   AG TECH DEV.                                 97     60.0                              34.1     32.9      19.9
P006562   BAHIA MUN.DV                                 97    100.0                              54.1     54.1       3.4
P035728   BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                          98     51.0                              29.9     27.2       8.4
P006564   BELO H M.TSP                                 95     99.0                              18.1     18.1
P037828   BR (PR)R.POVERTY                             96    175.0                              84.5     82.7      58.7
P058129   BR EMER FIRE PREVENTION (ERL)                99     15.0                               9.2      9.2       9.2
P047309   BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                   00                     15.0              11.7      2.6
P073294   BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL                   01     8.9                                8.8      2.3
P006474   BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                    98     55.0                              52.7     35.3      21.7
P057910   BR PENSION REFORM LIL                       98      5.0                               3.1       3.1      (0.5)
P006541   BR WTR Q/PLN(SP/PR/FED)                     93     245.0                      5.2      4.2      9.3       2.7
P054120   BR- AIDS & STD Control 11                    99    165.0                     3.5      49.1     45.1
P043874   BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE - VIGISUS          99     100.0                              61.9     61.9
P050763   BR- Fundescola 2                             99    202.0                              53.3    (21.7)
P006554   BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS         96     300.0                              110.9    110.9
P006543   BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.                  94    150.0                               3.7      3.7
P038947   BR- SC.&TECH3                               98     155.0                              123.6    123.6
P059565   BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE 1)           01     69.6                              40.7     (10.2)
P059566   BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                   01      90.0                              88.2     (1.8)
P057665   BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROJECT          02      68.0                              68.0
P048357   BRAZIL CEN.BANK TAL                          98     20.0                                -        -       (7.3)
P046052   CEARA WATER PILOT (SIM)                      97     9.6                                2.2      2.2       1.4
P006449   CEARA WTR MGT (PROGERIRH) (SIM)              01    136.0                              125.0     44.4
P006436   CearaUrbanDevelopment&WaterResource         95     140.0                              21.3     21.3       12.3
P039200   ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)               00     43.4                              42.7      11.3
P006522   ESP.SANTO WATER                             94     154.0                     54.0     13.2      67.2      6.7
P006532   FED HWY DECENTR                             97     300.0                              156.7    156.7      42.9
P038895   FED.WTR MGT                                  98    198.0                              125.7    113.6      58.7
P060221   FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT            02      85.0                              87.9
P006210   GEF BR-NATL BIODIVERSITY                     96                     10.0               3.2      4.4       5.1
P055954   GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT               02     65.0                              64.3      3.4
P062619  INSS REF LIL                                  00     5.0                                1.3      0.7      (0.7)
P006475   LAND RFM PILOT (SIM)                        97      90.0                              23.8      23.8
LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I
P050772  (SIM)                                         01    202.1                              180.9     23.0
P051701   MARANHAO R.POVERTY                          98      80.0                              10.4     (1.2)
P006505   MATOGROSSONATRES                             92    205.0                     15.0     12.1      27.1
P035741   NATLENV2                                     00     15.0                              13.4      8.5       6.4
P050776   NE Microfinance Development                  00     50.0                              40.4     (9.6)
P042565   PARAIBA R.POVERTY                           98      60.0                              28.9      17.1
P039199   PROSANEAR 2                                  00     30.3                              29.6     (0.7)
P038896   R.POVERTY(RGN)                              97      24.0                               0.6      0.6
P040028   RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                        96     350.0                     75.0     17.9      92.9      17.9



77
P038882   RECIFE M.TSP                                  95     102.0                               19.0     19.0
P034578   RGS HWY MGT                                   97     70.0                               53.6      50.6      37.6
P043868   RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                          97     100.0                              60.4      42.6      16.5
P043421   Rl M.TRANSIT PRJ.                             98     186.0                     17.2     142.9     160.1
P006454   RONDONIANTRLRES. M                            92     167.0                     10.0     10.8      20.8
P050881   RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT - PI          01     22.5                               22.5      6.0
P057649   Rural Poverty Reduction Project - BA          01     54.3                               51.3      6.3
P050875   Rural Poverty Reduction Project - CE          01     37.5                               34.6      4.7
P050880   Rural Poverty Reduction Project - PE          01     30.1                               28.9      0.8
P048869   SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                          99     150.0                              107.7     70.2
P074085   Sergipe Rural Poverty Reduction               02     20.8                               20.8
P051696   SAO PAULO METRO LINE 4 PROJECT                02    209.0                               209.0
P073192   TA Financial Sector                           02     14.5                               14.5
P043420   WATER S.MOD.2                                 98     150.0                              147.0     139.4    120.1
Total                                            5,734.7           25.0     179.8    2,859.2  1,740.3    441.I



78
Brazil
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of January 31, 2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held            |          Disbursed
FY Approval     Company           Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
2001            AG Concession       0.00  15.00  15.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1996/97         Algar Telecom      0.00    8.17   0.00   0.00   0.00    8.17   0.00    0.00
2001            Apolo               8.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    3.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1998           Arteb              20.00    7.00   0.00  18.33  20.00    7.00   0.00   18.33
1999            AutoBAn           35.00    0.00   0.00  31.00  29.22    0.00   0.00   25.88
1993            BACELL             4.90   15.70   o.o0   5.40   4.90   15.70   0.00    5.40
1990/91/92      Bahia Sul          0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996           BancoBradesco      10.48    0.00   0.00  11.18   10.48   0.00   0.00   11.18
2000            BBA                40.00   0.00   0.0(1  0.00   20.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1997            Bompreco           16.67   0.00   5.00   0.00   16.67   0.00   5.00    0.00
1991            Bradesco-Eucatex   2.50    0.00   0.001  0.00   2.50    0.00   0.00    0.00
1995            Bradesco-Hering    7.50    0.00   0.0(1  0.00    7.50   0.00   0.00    0.00
1991           Bradesco-Petrofl    7.50    0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50    0.00   0.00    0.00
1991           Bradesco-Romi       0.00    0.40   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.40   0.00    0.00
1995           Brahma - BRA        7.50    0.00   5.00   0.00    7.50   0.00   5.00    0.00
1998            BSC                9.88    0.00   0.00   5.29    9.88   0.00   0.00    5.29
1993/96         BUNGE/CEVAL        0.00    8.06   0.00   0.00    0.00   8.06   0.00    0.00
1995           Cambuhy/MC          7.50    0.00   0.00   0.00    7.50   0.00   0.00    0.00
1994/96         CHAPECO            15.00   6.41   0.00   5.00   15.00   6.41   0.00    5.00
1973/78/83      CODEMIN            0.00    0.40   0.0(   0.00    0.00   0.40   0.00    0.00
1997            Copesul           25.00    0.00   0.00  102.86  25.00   0.00   0.00  102.86
1993/97/00     Coteminas           0.00    0.53   0.0(   0.00    0.00   0.53   0.00    0.00
1992            CRP-Caderi         0.00    0.68   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.68   0.00    0.00
1980/92        DENPASA             0.00    0.12   0.01)  0.00    0.00   0.12   0.00    0.00
1995/96/98/02  Distel Holding      0.00    4.19   0.00   0.00    0.00   4.19   0.00    0.00
1998           Dixie Toga          0.00   15.00   0.01   0.00    0.00  15.00   0.00    0.00
1987/96/97     Duratex             16.57   0.00   0.01)  40.71  16.57   0.00   0.00   40.71
1999           Eliane             32.00    0.00  13.01)  0.00   32.00   0.00   13.00   0.00
1998           Empesca             5.00    0.00  10.00)  0.00    5.00   0.00   10.00   0.00
2001/02         Escola              0.00   0.28   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00   0.00
2000            Fleury              9.00   0.00   6.01)  0.00    6.00   0.00    6.00   0.00
1998           Fosfertil          20.00    0.00   0.00)  37.50  20.00   0.00   0.00   37.50
1998           Fras-le             10.00   0.00  10.0')  0.00   10.00   0.00   6.70    0.00
1994           GAVEA               6.25    0.00   5.5')  0.00    6.25   0.00   5.50    0.00
1994           GP Capital          0.00    9.67   0.00   0.00    0.00   9.35   0.00    0.00
2001            GPC                 9.00   0.00   0.0D    0.00   9.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997            Guilman-Amorim    25.78    0.00   0.00  57.47   25.78   0.00   0.00   57.47
1998           Icatu Equity        0.00   20.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  12.14   0.00    0.00
1999           Innova SA          20.00    5.00   0.00  60.00   20.00   5.00   0.00   60.00
1980/87/97      Ipiranga          29.33    0.00   0.00  57.27   29.33   0.00   0.00   57.27
1999           Itaberaba           0.00    5.34   0.00   0.00    0.00   5.34   0.00    0.00



79
1999           JOSAPAR             8.00   0.00    7.00   0.00   3.00   0.00    7.00   0.00
1995           LATASA - Brazil     1.33   0.00    5.00   0.00   1.33   0.00    5.00   0.00
1995           Lojas Americana    14.00   0.00    5.00   2.00  14.00   0.00    5.00   2.00
2000           Macedo Nordeste     6.33   0.00   5.00   0.00    6.33   0.00   5.00    0.00
1996           Mallory             4.36   0.00   0.00    0.00   4.36   0.00    0.00   0.00
1987/92/96/99  MBR                20.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  20.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1975/96        Oxiteno NE         10.00   5.00   0.00    0.00  10.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1994           Para Pigmentos     21.50   0.00   9.00   12.32  21.50   0.00    9.00  12.32
1987/96        Perdigao           15.31   0.00   0.00    2.00  15.31   0.00   0.00    2.00
1989/95        Politeno Ind.       5.85   0.00   0.00    0.00   5.85   0.00   0.00    0.00
1994/00/02     Portobello          0.00   1.15   0.00    0.00   0.00   1.15   0.00    0.00
2000            Puras              4.67    0.00   0.00   0.00   4.67   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           Randon              6.53   0.00   3.00    0.00   6.53   0.00    3.00   0.00
1995           Rhodiaco/PTA        7.50   0.00   0.00    3.00   7.50   0.00   0.00    3.00
1991           Rhodia-Ster         0.00   5.95   0.00    0.00   0.00   5.95   0.00    0.00
1990           Ripasa              0.00   5.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   5.00    0.00   0.00
1997           Rodovia            27.22   0.00   0.00   47.70  27.22   0.00   0.00   47.70
1994/96        S.A.I.C.C.          0.00   2.85   0.00    0.00   0.00   2.85   0.00    0.00
1994/95/97     Sadia              20.50   0.00   6.83  109.33  20.50   0.00   6.83  109.33
1997           Samarco            11.70   0.00   0.00    6.67  11.70   0.00    0.00   6.67
2000            Samaritano        20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           Saraiva            10.38   3.00   0.00    0.00  10.38   3.00   0.00    0.00
2000            Seara Alimentos    0.00   3.88    0.00   0.00   0.00   3.88    0.00   0.00
2001            Sepetiba          32.00   0.00    0.00   8.00  17.00   0.00    0.00   8.00
1987/97        SP Alpargatas      16.67   0.00   5.00    0.00  16.67   0.00    5.00   0.00
1997           Sucorrico           7.50   0.00   0.00    0.00   7.50   0.00   0.00    0.00
2001            Synteko           18.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  18.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           Tecon Rio Grande    6.65   0.00   5.50   14.84   6.65   0.00    5.50  14.84
2001            Tecon Salvador     3.50    1.00   0.00   5.00   3.50   0.77    0.00   5.00
1996           TIGRE              13.46   0.00    5.00   6.41  13.46   0.00    5.00   6.41
1992/93        TRIKEM              0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1993           Votorantim          1.43   0.00   0.00    0.00   1.43   0.00    0.00   0.00
1999           Vulcabras          16.68   0.00    0.00   0.00  16.68   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997           Wembley             0.00   10.00  0.00    0.00   0.00  10.00    0.00   0.00
1999           Wiest               0.00   0.00    8.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    8.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                 731.43  159.78  133.83  649.28  657.65  131.34  115.53  644.16
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
2002   Banco Itau            -          -          -        100,000
2000   BBA                 10,000       -          -         50,000
2001   Brad Templeton        -        20,000       -
2001   Cataguazes          45,000       -          -         40,000
1999   Cibrasec              -        7,500        -
2001   Satipel             15,000       -        15,000        -
2002   Unibanco-CL           -          -          -        150,000
2001   Unisul              15,000       -          --
2002   Univali             10,000       -          -
Total Pending Commitment:   95,000     27,500      15,000     340,000



80
Brazil
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Santa Catarina
Annex 10
Country at a Glance
Brazil at a glance                                                            9117/01
Latin   tipper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   m Iddle-
Brazil  & Carib.   income     Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (mffillons)                    170.1       516       647                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas method, US$)                   3,590      3,680    4,620
GN (Atlas method, USS billions)                     610.1      1,895    2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (X)                                         1.3       1.6       1.3     GNI
Labor force (X)                                        1.9       2.3       2.0     GNI                            Gross
per     I-i t         7     Iprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita                     enroilment
Poverty (% of populaston below natlonal poverty line)  22
Urban populaton (X of total population)                81        75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       67        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               32        30        28
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              6         9         ..          Access to improved water source
Access lo an Improved water source (9 of populaton)    87        85        87
Illiteracy (9 of population age 15+)                   15        12        10
Gross primaryenrollment ( ofschool-age population)    125       113       107
Male                                                 ..         ..      106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               ..         ..      105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos
GOP (US$ billions)                          235.0   465.0      529.4     595.5
Gross domestic investmentlGOP                23.3     20.2      20A       20.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP             9.1     8.2       10.6      10.9                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   21.1    21.4       19.3      19.3
Gross national savings/GDP                   17.8     18.9      16.1
Current account balance/GDP                  -5.5    -0.8       -4.8      -41      Domestic                   I
interest payments/GDP                         2.7     0.4        2.5       2.5     savings                    Investment
Total debVGDP                                304      25.8      45.6      39.7
Total debt serviceexports                    63.4     22.5     112.3      77.9
Present value of debtGDP                       ..      ..       45.9
Present value of debVexports                   ..      ..      403.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999       2000   :1000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.7      2.9     0.8        4.5       3.6        -     Brazil
GDP per capita                       0.8      1.5    -0.5        3.2       2.3              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        7.5      5.5     12.0      11.0      13.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                  11.0      8.1       7.2       7.4    15
Industry                                     43.8     38.7      27.5      28.6
Manufacturing                              33.5       ..      23.1      24.0                                     o
Services                                     45.2     53.2      65.3      64.0     -7
Private consumption                          69.7     59.3      61.8      62.5    -10
General govemment consumpton                  9.2     19.3      18.9      18.2                    GD      0 -- GDOP
Imports of goods and services                11.3     7.0       11.7      12.1
1980-90  `1990-00     19199     2000     Growth of exports and Imports I1%j
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   2.8      3.2       7.4       3.0    40
Industry                                      2.0      2.6      -1.6       5.0
Manufacturing                               1.6      2.1      -0.7              20
Services                                      3.3      3.0       1.3       3.9 o
Private consumption                           1.2      5.7       6.1       9.9            es   9s    97   Da   5/ 00
General govemment consumption                 7.3     -1.7      -9.3      -5.4   .20
Gross domestic investment                     3.3      3.4      -3.0       5.0            -Exports       -    tmports
Imports of goods and services                 0.5     11.9     -14.8      13.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



81
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflatlon (%)
Domes7%c prices
(% change)2.0
Consumer prices                                   2.947.7       8.9      6.0     2.000
Implicit GDP deflator                       87.3   2,509.5      4.3      8.5     1,s 0
1,000 IX
Goverment finance                                                                 500
(X of GDP, includes current grants)                                                o -                     p     *     p
Current revenue                               ..       ..      19.5     20.0              ss   56    97    98    99   00
Current budget balance                        ..       ..       0.4      1.0            -     GDP deflator  C*-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -6.8     -3.2
TRADE
(UJSS miltlons)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   31,414    47,140   53,589     75000
Coffee                                       ..   2,656      2,746    3,048
Soybeans                                     ..   2,854      1,593    2,188     soo
Manufactures                                 ..   19,624    35,312   41,027            -_
Total imports (df)                            ..   20.661    49.275   55,800                _ 
Food                                          . 1.379        1,655 1,507 25000mu                          ll'
Fuel and energy                              ..   4,354      4,258    6,362
Capital goods                                ..   5,932     13,570   13,593
94   95   96   57  9a  9s    00
Export price index (1995=100)                 80      81         91       97
ImportpriceIndex(1995=100)                    65      74        113      118                mEsports     mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    123      109        80       82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ mWillions)
Exports of goods and services             21,857   34,615    55,205   64,470     o
Imports of goods and services             27,788   26,708    63,443   72,741     - 
Resource balance                          -5.931    7,907    -8,238    -8,271                      *     *     *    *
Net income                                 -7,044  -12,523  -18,848   -17,888                  _     _    _
Net current transfers                         42     834      1.689     1,521   -3*                      *   
Current account balance                  -12,933   -3,782    -25,397  -24,636    4
Financing Items (net)                      8,990   -5,043    13,634   33,815     s
Changes In net reserves                    3.943    8,825    11.763    -9,179
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ Sillons)      5,853    9,175    35,725   33,011
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLIUSS)         1.92E-11  2.48E-5      1.8      1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS rnillions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      71,520  119,877   241,468   236,200                    A- 7,377
IBRD                                     2,035    8.427     6,822    7.377            G 29486         C: 1.7685
IDA                                          0       0          0        0
Total debt service                        14,757    8.168    67,522   53,200                ',         "       D: 48.358
IBRD                                       275    1,975     1,381     1,351
IDA                                          0       0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                E: 9,932
Official grants                             14      41         62
Official creditors                         825     -633       660    -2.037
Private creditors                        3,745     -427   -11,828   -32,675
Foreign direct investment                1,911     989     32,659       ..
Portfolio equity                             0       0      1,961                     F: 139,279
World Bank program
Commitments                                820      905     1,863     1,593    A - BRD                     E - Eilatera
Disbursements                              343      788     1,533     1,692    8-IDA     D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        98    1,251       952      887     C - IMF                     G - Short-temn
Net flows                                  245     -463       580      805
Interest payments                          177     725        428      464
Neltransfers                                68   -1,187       152      341
Development Economics                                                                                             9/17/01



82
Brazil
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Santa Catarina
Annex 11
Social Assessment
Background
Agriculture, Natural Resource Management and Poverty in Santa Catarina
Land and Rural Population
Santa Catarina was originally occupied by the Guarani, Kaingang an,i Xokoleng IPs. European settlement of the
interior began around the middle of the 1700s and extensive forest clearance for agriculture from early in the Twentieth
Century. By 2000, the population of the State had reached 5.3 million (of which about 7,000 are IP), representing 3. 1 %
of the Brazilian population and showing an increase of 17.4% over the previous decade; 21.3% of the present
population is rural. The increase over the last decade derives entirely from the urban segment of the population. Rural
population fell by 14.8% in the same period, representing a decline of 197,000 persons.
Farming in Santa Catarina is dominated by small holdings. Among the southern states, Santa Catarina has the highest
proportion of small farms. Over 90% of the rural population depends on farming. Of the total of some 203,000
establishments recorded in 1995/6, 90% had less than 50 hectares and 315% were below 10 hectares, giving the highest
proportion of small farms of any southern Brazilian state. The great majority of farmers live on and own the land they
use. Production systems are very diverse, ranging from purely subsistence agriculture by the smallest and poorest
farmers, to modem, highly technified farning on medium or larger holdings. Integration of cropping with intensive
livestock rearing under contract with processors is common, especially in the west of the State where some 43% of
holdings and 45% of persons occupied in agriculture are located. Elsewhere, depending on soils, climate and proximity
to markets, farmers may specialize in tobacco, cassava, soy, fruits, vegetables, irrigated rice or extensive livestock. IP
usually practice swidden horticulture, hunt, fish and collect forest products, described in detail in Annex 13.
The rural population from which the project target group is drawn can be classified as follows, according to access to
land and income--the latter expressed as on-farm net income per capita in terms of the number of officially defined
minimum wages (currently equivalent to about US$65) per family.
a   Marginalfarmers who operate small plots mainly for subsistence using family labor and with on-farm net incomes
of less than one minimum wage per family member. They only occasionally have spare labor to sell off-farm and
rarely join co-operative activities. They represent about 52% of farms, 32% of the farmed area and 51% of the
population of the State occupied in agriculture.
*   "Transition "farmers who also have small farms, but generate on-farm income of one to three minimum wages per
family member and usually sell at least some excess production. They also use mainly family labor, seldom
process their output before sale to add value and do not often sell their labor. They represent some 33%, 24% and
26% respectively of farms, farm area and the agricultural workforce.
*   "Consolidated" family farmers with net on-farm income over three minimum wages per family member. At least
70% of farm output is sold but usually 50% of farm labor is still provided by the family. Commercial activities are
most often contract rearing of pigs and poultry using their own crops for feed, production of animal feed grains or
agroindustrial crops such as tobacco or soya. This category represents some 10% of holdings, 15 % of farmed area
and 9% of the workforce.
*   Permanent farm employees, usually of consolidated or larger commercial farmers, who are about 6% of the
workforce--a total of 42,500 people.
*   Temporary farm workers who live around towns or on the fringes of areas of intensive agriculture, often in
shantytowns; a further 47,000 people.
*   Rural dwellers notfully dependent on agriculture including retired people, operators of rural leisure centers or
weekend visitors. These occupy some 1.5% of farms and of the farmed area.
*   The indigenous population, estimated to number 6,500-7,000 people (including about 500 mestizos-- people of



83
mixed race), including the Xokleng, the Kaingang and the Guaranis. Historically, these people have depended for
their livelihoods on the Atlantic forest resources, and their economic systems are primarily oriented to subsistence
production. Further information is provided in Annex 13.
Definition of the Target Group
Within the rural population described above, the target population consists of an estimated 105,000 small and marginal
farming and laboring families plus a significant portion of the state's 7,000 IP. The target population resides primarily
in 880 out of Santa Catarina's 1,683 microcatchments (an estimated 4.0 million hectares). Among them, the priority
target group consists of rural poor with a per capita net farm income of less than two minimum wages, which includes
both those classified above as "marginal" due to having a net agricultural income of less than one minimum wage, and a
category "transitional type I" having a per capita net farm income of less than two minimum wages, as well as all IP.
The priority target group consists of an estimated 80,000 poor rural families, i.e., 75 % of rural families would be
benefited under the project.
Targeting
Targeting of project microcatchments, and their selection in the municipalities within which they are located, would be
based on the application of criteria that combine consideration of (a) social indicators and factors such as the
concentration of small farmers and IP; and (b) environmental status, as represented by degradation of natural resources
and threats to biodiversity (see Annex 2, Appendix I on targeting). In the one third of municipalities considered from
the application of these criteria to be most needy, two thirds of microcatchments would be eligible for assistance. In the
middle third, half the microcatchments would qualify. In the least needy third, only one third of the microcatchments
would qualify. Municipalities, through their existing Rural Development Councils, would choose which of their
individual microcatchments to target using the specific criteria mentioned above. Once a microcatchment had been
selected, all local residents would be eligible to participate in the project through the formation of an MA, although
support agencies would be required always to focus the operation of MAs on the needs of poorer people.
Implementation Strategy
Various social issues or obstacles to empowerment would be addressed by the project, which between them maintain
the status quo of the target group. They include lack of confidence, apathy and incomplete knowledge of opportunities
on the side of beneficiaries and customs of paternalism, subordination and self-seeking among more privileged
outsiders. Change would be introduced through the project's highly participatory approach. Prior publicity, an
extensive training program and the creation of "deliberative" stakeholder bodies would be the principal means by
which the project would alter social perception and behavior and build social capital among the target group, and thus
contain social risks to project outcomes. Particular attention would be given to the empowerment of IP, as is described
in Annex 13.
During implementation, targeting and stakeholder participation and ownership of the project would be based on an
extensive preliminary program of project publicity, intensive training, motivation and mobilization of stakeholders, four
levels of project decision-making or approval stretching from the MA through municipal, regional and up to state levels
and operational procedures to ensure democratic decision making.



84
Summary of Social Assessment
Objectives
The social assessment aimed to provide a better understanding of the nature and causes of rural poverty in Santa
Catarina; identify the most affected groups, their socioeconomic characteristics and the causes of their present situation;
explore social and organizational options and operational requirements for poverty alleviation among those forming the
identified target group for project support; and recommend actions to be taken to implement the project.
Methods
The assessment that underpins project design is based on a combination of stakeholder consultation and review of
secondary data sources.
Project design was the subject of a four-year process of widespread consultation with stakeholders and their
representatives, involving 20 regional meetings including some 2,000 stakeholders'. As well as the target group
themselves, participants included representatives of community leadership, local government, government technical,
social and environmental services, the private and voluntary sectors. During the final preparation stage (in December
2001), the Government organized three public hearings which counted on the participation of 103 representatives from
the target group and other relevant government and non-government organizations. These consultations aimed at
discussing the project proposal with stakeholders and took place in three of the State regions (western, center and
southern). Invitations to public participation in these events were published in 18 different newspapers circulating at the
local, regional and state level. In addition, individual invitation letters were sent to key institutions representatives from
the target beneficiaries (producers and rural works organizations and federations, etc.), municipal associations, credit
institutions, universities and NGOs. These meetings proved to be an excellent opportunity to discuss and disseminate
the proposed project concept to a broad forum of stakeholders and generated lively discussion which contributed
significantly in the improvement of the final PCD. The situation and needs of IP were the subject of a separate exercise
that generated a preliminary diagnostic report in 1998, and further consultations in the last quarter of 2001 and January
2002 (see Annex 13).
The published data sources for supporting information are listed in Apperndix 1 of this Annex.
Summary of General Findings
Poverty in Brazil declined somewhat from the early to the mid-1990s but showed a gradual rise later in the decade.
There are marked regional differences in poverty. Although regarded as typically a phenomenon of Brazil's Northeast,
other regions are also significantly affected and have in recent times often been less successful in containing poverty
than the Northeast.
Since the 1980s poverty has become an increasingly rural phenomenon: by 1998, 44% of all Brazil's poor families and
51% of all poor people lived in rural areas. Santa Catarina has about 2% of the country's destitute families, of which
56% live in the rural areas --a higher proportion than in any other geographical region; about 38% of the rural
population live in households below the poverty line. Between 1995 and 1998, national per capita incomes declined by
about 0.4% per annum, while that of rural families fell by about 1.1%, and that of the small-scale farmers by about
2.5%. (this statement directly contradicts the Bank's rural poverty strategy... be careful) The State of Santa Catarina
has been no exception to these trends.
In the later 1990s national economic reforms and Brazil's decision to open its agriculture to international competition by
joining Mercosur greatly exacerbated poverty among small-scale farmers. Following exposure to open competition
1 These 2,000 stakeholders included about 950 regional, local political and community leaders, as well as NGOs and
representatives from the target group. During the four years of preparation, a continuous consultation and participation
process was maintained, involving the Cederural, Universities and the following representatives from civil society:
Organization of Agricultural Cooperatives in SC (Ocesc), Federation of Producers Organizations of SC (Faesc) and
Federation of Rural Workers of SC (Fetaesc), and local environmental NGOs.



85
from large-scale commercial producers elsewhere, farm gate prices and agricultural profits fell. Simultaneously, the
decrease of subsidies and the limited availability of commercial credit at high interest rates worsened the predicament,
particularly that of the small-scale farmer. Commercial farmers shed labor, thus removing opportunities for marginal
farmers to salvage their livelihoods by working outside the family land. These trends have fueled Brazil's rural exodus:
Between 1992 and 1998, about 2.4% of rural people fled their land annually and migrated to the cities. In the southern
states, migration rate averages about 4.1% with Santa Catarina following this pattern.
Poverty among the indigenous population is particularly acute and is further documented in Annex 13. About 94% of
the IPs of Santa Catarina live in 10 regularized Indigenous Lands (T.I.s) totaling about 40,000 ha. Historically, these
people derived their livelihoods from Atlantic forest resources; however, as a result of various activities in the last 100
years by the majority non-indigenous population there has been a drastic reduction in the area of forest available to IP,
rendering them among the poorest segments of southern Brazilian society.  They have never benefited from
development.
There is a strong connection between poverty and illiteracy, poor health and large family size. All these indicators score
worse for the rural population of Santa Catarina than for urban people. Rural health is particularly at risk in the State
due to the high concentration of pig and poultry enterprises; unsafe disposal of their waste often contaminates rural
drinking water sources.
Central to project success is the need to give all groups of beneficiaries the means, individually and collectively, to
express their wants and to gain an equitable response from the development process. This would have to lead
eventually to project ownership and durability of the social structure that is created. Such empowerment implies
building social capital among the poor, without which they would be unable to exploit identified opportunities for
sustainable increases in production, income diversification, job creation, better living conditions and resource
conservation that the project would need to offer. Various social issues or obstacles to empowerment would need to be
addressed, which between them maintain the status quo of the target group. They include lack of confidence, apathy
and lack of knowledge of opportunities on the side of beneficiaries; and the customs of paternalism, subordination and
self-seeking among more privileged outsiders.
Results of the social assessment suggest that change would best be introduced through a highly participatory approach,
building on the demonstration under the LM II project that the microcatchment can be an effective basic unit for
community organization as well as providing the basis for coordinated physical changes in resource and environmental
management. Prior publicity, an extensive training program and the creation of fully participatory stakeholder bodies
should be the principal means to alter social perceptions and behavior and build social capital.
Detailed results of the social assessment are given in Working Paper 16 (Avaliacao Social). Additional highlights are
summarized below.
*   After some previous improvements, poverty began to rise again in Brazil as a whole, and in Santa Catarina, at the
end of the 1990s. By 1999, about 32% of urban families in Brazil were earning less than two minimum wages; but
for rural families the proportion was over 71% -- 2.2 times greater--and for Santa Catarina the proportion was 2.5
times greater.
*   Polarization of agriculture between intensive modem enterprises and poor, subsistence holdings is ongoing. An
increasing number of farmers face economic, social and environmental degradation, leading them either to leave
the land or--if they remain--to face rising poverty.
*   Nevertheless, in Santa Catarina over 94% of holdings (totaling 192,000) are still classified as "family farms"
operated by the occupier on his/her own account. They work 60% of farm land (about 4 million hectares) and
generate over 71% of the agricultural GDP of the State.
*   There has however been a general decline in agricultural earnings during the 1990s, affecting all classes of farmer.
*   There was, largely in response to falling profits, a reduction in agricultural employment between 1992 and 1999.
This was more pronounced in Santa Catarina that for the rest of the country: nearly 25% of agricultural jobs were
lost, totaling 178,000.
*   The rural labor force currently includes a higher proportion of children, adolescents and over-60s than in towns.
*   Many of those losing agricultural jobs could not find other work in rural areas so migrated to towns, particularly the
young people. The proportion of rural population in the State consequently fell from about 28% in 1991 to a little
over 21 % in 2000.
*   Income disparities between small family farms and the "consolidated" and other better-off farmers widened over



86
the 1990s. The latter earned an average of eight times more than tfie average family farm in 1992; the gap had
widened to 12.5 times by 1998. This occurred despite small farmers generating higher average yields per hectare,
operating at higher labor intensity and investing more per hectare of their land.
*   Small farm sizes combined with limited access to credit and technical assistance were considered to have
contributed to the above trends for family farms.
*   Rural people perceive their quality of life as having degraded over the last decade. Field diagnostic surveys
pinpointed the following preoccupations among the target group: declining quantity and quality of water supplies;
bacterial and pesticide contamination of water sources; deforestation and declining biodiversity; low returns to
labor and limited retention of value added by the farmer; poor housing, limited access to additional land, inadequate
health and education facilities; and limited outreach to the poorer people of government development programs.
*   Despite the success of the Bank's previous LM II project in improving land management in Santa Catarina, most of
the benefits reached only the better-off farmers. While adopters of improved technology fared better than non-
adopters, no farmers were fully protected from the declines in farm profitability due to national macro-economic
adjustmentsl .
*   Rural people in Santa Catarina have higher levels of illiteracy and infant mortality than urban people. Fewer have
access to safe drinking water, domestic sanitation, sewerage and waste collection services.
*   The production technology used by most of Santa Catarina's farmers compares favorably with the rest of Brazil;
nonetheless, small farmers receive less technical assistance and credit and own or use less machinery, fertilizers and
other inputs than larger farmers. Family income is positively correlated with greater access to, and more
widespread use of, these factors of production.
*   Operators of small family farms have a greater propensity to co-operate with each other than do larger-scale
farmers.
*   Fewer farmers than in the past are advising their sons to remain in farming. Young men are the keenest group to
leave rural areas; low earnings and a perceived lack of future on the firm are the reasons most often given for urban
migration.
Conclusions
Less than 12% of farms in Santa Catarina form part of the modern, cornmercial sector. More than 50% of the rural
population--650,000 people including more than 7,000 indigenous--face social exclusion and low earnings that cause
them to live in rising poverty or to contemplate urban migration. About half of these people have a net family income
per capita of less than one minimum wage or are destitute. Falling farm-gate prices for their staple products --which are
forecast to decline further during the present decade--plus the loss of rural jobs will aggravate their predicament.
Environmental degradation will intensify negative impacts. Project interventions should therefore address the following
constraints:
*   Low returns from staple crops due to lack of opportunities to.divers:ify into more profitable activities and increase
value-added on farm.
*   Environmental risks and land degradation affecting the rural poor, who were not specifically targeted by LM II.
*   Lack of off-farm employment opportunities in rural areas.
*   Capital constraints affecting poor people who wish to invest in addressing the above constraints.
*   The changes in "mindsets" and organization of rural interventions needed to reach and empower the target group,
and to build their social capital.
*   The low levels of literacy, housing, health and sanitation of the target group, all of which jeopardize their effective
participation in their own development.
*   The special problems of responding to the needs of IP.
l LM II did not contain specific mechanisms to target the poor. It re:3ponded to concerns of the time to place the
maximum of farrnland under practices that would reduce erosion and contain floods. Brazil's decision to join Mercosur
and macroeconomic adjustments reduced farm profitability from the mid- to late 1990s. However ex-post evaluation of
LM II shows that farmers who adopted improved practices suffered smaller declines in incomes than those who did not.
Marginal and poor farmers on whom LM II had least impact were the worst affected. More recently the flexible
exchange rate regime, devaluation of the Real and lower interest rates have boosted Brazil's agriculture, in particular for
export products.



87
Design Considerations for Project Components
In designing project components to address the constraints identified by the Social Assessment, the following should be
taken into account:
* Rural Poverty: Through the application of clear criteria for targeting the rural poor and of a highly participatory
and decentralized diagnosis at the local and farm level, the project would concentrate its efforts in addressing the
main causes of rural poverty.
* Low quality of life of the rural poor: The impacts on family health from poor housing, lack of sanitation and
polluted domestic water supplies would be addressed through grants for the rural poor.
* Insufficient knowledge of participatory methods by technical staff. Project implementers and beneficiaries would
be exposed to effective participatory methods, which are essential to achieve governance. A strong training
program proved to be an important tool to induce needed technical changes under the LM II.
* Land degradation: The continuing degradation, declining productivity and falling earnings from the land of poorer
and marginal farmers would be addressed on a priority basis. They were the least able to take advantage of the
technical support and incentives offered by the previous LM II project.
* Water pollution: Water pollution due to farm intensification and concentration of pig, poultry and pig-fish
production --consequence of macroeconomic adjustment and opening of markets--would be addressed by resolving
water and other environmental conflicts to directly improve quality of life of beneficiaries and of society at large.
It will also increase opportunities to supply sophisticated markets willing to pay premium prices for certified and
safe food products. Support to the adoption of Conservation Agreements and Terms of Adjustment of Conduct to
resolve environmental conflicts associated with water pollution from animal waste and other relevant polluters will
help to achieve a more sustainable management of natural resources.
* Lack of opportunities to reach niche markets: Lack of opportunities of poor and marginal farmers, due to poor
access and low bargaining power, will be addressed through initiatives aimed at enabling them to associate into
viable groups, so as to achieve economic scales and diversify into alternative products seeking niche markets.
Addressing this issue will allow poor and marginal farmers to obtain price differentials to help offset declining
incomes from their staple crops.
* Lack of resources and technical information: Seed capital, technical assistance and information needed to increase
post-harvest value added from agricultural products and to facilitate certification of origin would be provided to
poorer and marginal farmers to help them take advantage of paths towards poverty reduction.
* Integration of programs and policies at the local level: The limited and uncoordinated flow of resources reaching
the target area and population and the limited knowledge of the productive bases would be addressed through the
adoption of a decentralized approach focused on decision-making at the local level with properly trained decision-
making bodies. The municipal and microcatchment participatory diagnostics and other planning mechanisms have
proven to be strategic instruments to integrate policies and programs and to increase the effectiveness and impact of
the public resources available for poverty reduction and environmental management at the local level.
* Insufficient integration of land, water and conservation activities and programs: The broader, longer-term
environmental threats to land, water and biodiversity resources which, if further neglected, will negate any shorter-
term livelihood gains will be addressed by piloting the preparation and initial implementation of river basin sub-
catchments plans (or watershed plans) using the project microcatchment plans as the building blocks and involving
the broad spectrum of watershed stakeholders.
*   Fiscal Performance and Structural Reform: The State's efforts to further improve its fiscal performance, in
particular by improving effectiveness and efficiency of its public expenditures, would be supported by a technical
assistance program to review, inter alia, compliance with the benchmarks of its Federal Agreement, undertake an
assessment of the targeting mechanisms and impact of its social and safety net programs, while it would also
review its energy sector restructuring program now under implementation. Of even greater importance would be
the assistance to review the economic, legislative and institutional framework governing water resources and
sanitation that would complement efforts being financed under other Bank loans.
Securing the Necessary Stakeholder Participation
Given the different characteristics of the target group for the present project, arrangements for stakeholder participation
are built on, but also go well beyond, those used in the LM II project. Stakeholder participation and ownership for the



88
present project are based on four design features. First, there would be an extensive preliminary program of
dissemination of the project, explaining its aims, rules, strategies and procedures to all strata of rural society. Potential
beneficiaries as well as potential implementers, partners and stakeholders in the private and voluntary sectors should all
be covered. Second, intensive training, motivation and mobilization of stakeholders would start well before and
continue throughout the project: content, location and duration of training sessions, courses and events should be
matched to the diverse types of recipient, ranging from the rural poor to local power-holders, decision makers, staff of
government organizations and the private and voluntary sectors. lhird, there would be multiple levels of project
decision-making or approval, stretching from the MA through municipal, regional and up to state levels. At every level
beneficiaries or their representatives would comprise the majority on decision-making bodies. Fourth, the operational
procedures of the project and the support provided to beneficiaries to apply them should be oriented so as to ensure that
decisions could only be taken on the basis of democratic consensus.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation would also be highly participatory and involve the full range of project stakeholders--
especially the target group and their representatives at all levels.  M&E would cover economic, social and
environmental indicators. Results would be widely disseminated especially within beneficiary communities. Regular
meetings and workshops would be scheduled with stakeholders to identify any obstacles to implementation or shortfalls
in the project's impact in alleviating rural poverty. Mechanisms for corrective action are built into project arrangements
for organization and management.



89
Annex 11: Appendix 1
Secondary Data Sources
(1) As avaliac6es do impacto s6cio-economico e comportamental do Projeto Microbacias 1, elaboradas pelo
ICEPA, que envolveu pesquisa de campo junto a uma amostra de 1.430 produtores rurais (1,6% dos 87.265
produtores assistidos pelo Projeto), distribuidos em 224 das 559 (40,1%) microbacias trabalhadas pelo Projeto,
realizada nos meses de agosto e setembro de 1998;
(2) Os dados censitArios demogrAficos e econ8micos copilados, tabulados e divulgados pela FundacAo Instituto
Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (IBGE) atraves dos Censos e Contagens Populacionais (1960, 1970, 1980,
1991, 1996 e 2000) e das Pesquisas Nacionais de Amostra de Domicflios - PNAD (relativas aos anos de 1992,
1993,1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 e 1999);
(3) 0 documento Sintese de Indicadores Sociais 1999 do IBGE;
(4) Os dados nacionais sobre a agricultura familiar disponiveis atraves da pagina
www.incra.gov.br/sade/;
(5) 0 "Mapa da Fome: Subsidios a Formulacao de uma Politica de Seguranca Alimentar", publicado pelo
Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aplicada (IPEA) em marqo de 1993;
(6) As analises sobre o universo rural brasileiro realizadas no ambito do Projeto RURBANO (Unicamp);
(7). As analises sobre a questao da pobreza rural realizadas no ambito do seminario sobre os Desafios da
Pobreza Rural (Banco Mundial);
(8) 0 estudo de Francisco G. Carneiro, "Brazil: An Assessment of Rural Labor Markets in the 1990s";
(9) As informacoes sobre a agricultura catarinense copiladas pelo ICEPA/SC e consolidadas em suas diversas
publicacoes, com destaque para o "SC-AGRO 2000" (CD-ROM) e a "Sintese Anual da Agricultura de Santa
Catarina (2000-2001)"; e,
(10) 0 estudo "Bacias Hidrograficas do Estado de Santa Catarina - Diagn6stico Geral" preparado sob a
coordenacao da Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio Ambiente.



90
Brazil
Natural Resource Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Santa Catarina
Annex 12
Project Management Structure
Introduction
Project management and implementation would be the overall responsibility of the Santa Catarina's SDA supported
by the SDM, FATMA, under SDM and EPAGRI and ICEPA, under SDA. Draft Subsidiary Agreements between
SDA and these were provided at negotiations, while the signing of thlese agreements will be a condition of Loan
Effectiveness. Also, a Cooperation Agreement will also be signed one month after Loan Effectiveness to assist
SDA, when and as needed, in facilitating the participation of IP communities in the project.
The project management structure is decentralized with executive bodies at the state, regional, municipal and
microcatchment levels. Building on the experience of the LM II, it has been designed to maximize participation and
ownership of decision-making by beneficiaries by transferring these responsibilities and project accountability to the
lowest practicable administrative levels. These aims would be achieved by creating a pyramid of inter-linked
"deliberative" bodies in parallel to the executive ones, stretching frorn state level through 14 operating regions to
Santa Catarina's 293 municipalities, the 880 project microcatchments and eventually down to the community level.
(see Figure 1). Where similar deliberative bodies already exist--at state and municipal levels--the project's specific
deliberative bodies will be attached to them but with specific membership to ensure full representation of the target
beneficiaries. To ensure that development is demand-led, at least 50% of the participants in project deliberative
bodies at every level would be members of the target group or their representatives. Other members would span
remaining stakeholders in the participatory process--NGOs, labor unions, co-operatives, private firms, government
organizations involved in implementation and local political figures such as mayors.
The Government has set up a small PMU at state level attached to the Dffice of the SDA. The PMU is composed of
a core team of qualified professionals and has small departments dialing with technical management, auditing,
finance, procurement and administration, monitoring and evaluation and operation of the RIF. It is staffed mainly
by secondment from the partner executive organizations (EPAGRI, IC:EPA and SDM/FATMA) complemented with
specialized consultants to be contracted by ICEPA to include technical areas, financial management, procurement,
administration and internal auditing. To ensure proper implementation of the Indigenous People's Strategy, and
coordinate indigenous activities, a social scientist is assigned to the PMU. In addition, EPAGRI regional and
municipal offices will serve as project executive units of the PMU that would also have small multi-institutional
teams in each of the 14 EPAGRI regional offices. The function of the PMU and its executive partner organizations-
-notably EPAGRI, FATMA, ICEPA and SDM--would be to support implementation of the collective decisions and
programs of the deliberative bodies coming from the various levels. Thus the state, regional and municipal project
executive units would also act as the executive arms for the stakeholder deliberative bodies responsible for
participatory planning, decision-making and oversight of implementation at state, regional, municipal and
microcatchment levels (see Figure 2).
Deliberative responsibilities. On a scale appropriate to their levels i:n the pyramid, deliberative bodies would set
project implementation policy and priorities, approve annual operational plans and fund allocations, resolve conflicts
between stakeholders, approve sub-projects/grants, monitor and evaluate progress and approve implementation
reports. These stakeholder "deliberative" bodies at microcatchment, mrunicipal, regional and state levels would also
be responsible to oversee the focus of the project on poverty alleviation through the correct application of the
selection criteria at municipal and microcatchment levels. Proper focus at farm level would be monitored through
the adequate application of the selection criteria of the RIF.
Executive responsibilities. An executive chain of mainly govermne:nt, mostly seconded, staff has been formed.
Under the overall responsibility of SDA, the executive chain would service and support deliberative bodies in
fulfilling their responsibilities and in the implementation of the actions they demand. The executive structure would



91
echo the deliberative pyramid, with small executive units at state, regional and municipal levels (see Figure 1). At
the lowest level, microcatchments would be assisted to hire their own external support agents, but these would still
be trained and backstopped by executive units.  The executive chain would also be responsible for loan
administration, project accounting, auditing and meeting the information and reporting requirements of the Bank.
"Deliberative" (participatory decision-making) Bodies
State Level. At the state level, a Project Deliberative Committee (Comissdo Coordenadora Estadual, CCE) was
established by Resolution No. 001/2002/SDA/CDRURAL of February 18, 2002, by the existing State Rural
Development Council (Cederural)', as a special sectoral body (Cdmara Setorial de Microbacias) with duration
limited to the life of the project to ensure that the project target population and interest are adequately represented.
Cederural is the overall State deliberative forum for agricultural and fisheries policy formulation and priority setting,
as well as resource allocation in the fields of agriculture, livestock, forestry and fisheries. It established the criteria
for the RDF under which the project's RIF would operate. The creation of the CCE under the Cederural is logical
given the convergence of Cederural's objectives, representation and procedures with those of the project.
The project's CCE would have 12 to 15 members, including representatives from the government implementing
agencies (SDA, EPAGRI, ICEPA, SDM, FATMA), the Federation of Municipal Associations (Fecam) and relevant
organizations represented in Cederural, such as the Organization of Agricultural Cooperatives in Santa Catarina
(Ocesc), the Federation of Producers Organizations of SC (Faesc), and the Federation of Rural Workers of SC
(Fetaesc). In addition, as for all deliberative bodies, at least 50% of the CCE members would be project
beneficiaries or their representatives from MAs, one of which would be a representative of the IPs benefited under
the project2.
The CCE would: (i) ensure implementation of project policies for poverty reduction and natural resource
management; (ii) set overall project priorities such as the selection of priority regions for project support; (ii) review
and approve Project Annual Operating Plans (POA) and budgets provided by executive bodies; (iii) approve funding
applications from the RIF above R$50,000 (US$20,000 equivalent); (iv) resolve conflicts, particularly any arising
from policy differences among sectoral institutions; (v) monitor and evaluate implementation performance by
receiving and approving progress reports from the project's executive bodies; and (vi) approve any changes
proposed by executive bodies on the basis of above reports.
Regional LeveL In each of the project's 14 operating regions a Regional Deliberative Committee (Comissao
Coordenadora Regional, CCR) were also created by the Cederural, as an extension of the Cederural. CCRs would
have between 12 to 15 members that would include the representatives from the government implementing agencies
(SDA, EPAGRI, ICEPA, SDM, FATMA), Municipal Associations of the region, plus the 50% of members
representing direct beneficiaries through their MAs. In regions where IP communities are present, at least one
member of the CCR would be a representative of the benefiting IPs.
CCRs would: (i) coordinate project policy for the region by consolidating the municipal demands and plans and
setting priorities--for instance for fund allocations between municipalities; (ii) oversee the POA for the region and
consolidate funding requests coming from municipalities before forwarding them to the CCE; (iii) approve funding
' The Cederural was legally created in 1992 (State Law 8676) and the following composition: (i) the State Secretary
of Rural Development and Agriculture, as President; (ii) representatives from the State Secretariats of Environment,
Economy and Education; (iii) representatives from the State Financial System, State Environmental Foundation
(FATMA), State Bank (Besc), and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture Office to the State Santa Catarina
(DFA/SC); and (iv) the following representatives from civil society: Organization of Agricultural Cooperatives in
SC (Ocesc), Federation of Producers Organizations of SC (Faesc), Federation of Rural Workers of SC (Fetaesc),
Landless Workers' Movement (MST/SC), Fishermen's Federation in SC (Fepesc), Consumer Protection
Organization (Procon), Federation of Industries in SC (Fiesc), Commodities Exchange and Association of
Agriculture-related Professionals and Technicians.
2As provided for in the IPs Strategy (Annex 13).



92
applications from the RIF in the range of R$5,000 - 50,000 (US$2,000 - 20,000 equivalent); (iv) resolve conflicts;
(v) monitor and evaluate implementation performance by receiving and approving project progress reports from
executive bodies; and (v) approve any changes proposed by the executive bodies on the basis of above reports.
Municipal leveL   In each of the project municipalities, a Municipal Deliberative Committee (Comissdo
Coordenadora Municipal, CCM) would be established as a sectoral body (Cdmara Setorial de Microbacias)
attached to the existing Municipal Rural Development Council (CMDR) to ensure that the project's target
population and interest are adequately represented. CCMs would need to be created as a condition for receiving any
financial support from RIF. This condition will be reflected in the Cooperation Agreement to be signed between
SDA and each municipality prior to initiating project activities in sucli municipality. Life of the CCM would be
limited to the duration of the project. The existing CMDRs aim at implementing their overall Municipal
Development Plans and include representatives from rural communities, professional associations, technical
assistance entities, municipal government executive and legislative bodies and NGOs. During project start-up, the
CMDRs would select the microcatchments to be targeted by the project and assist with the formation of MAs as
legal entities. Subsequently, the CCM would be created with 50% o1 its membership consisting of beneficiaries
from the MAs of the selected microcatchments. In municipalities where IP communities are present, at least one
member of the CCM would be a representative of benefiting IPs. Remaining members would be from other
stakeholder categories and executive implementing agencies.
The CCM would: (i) set implementation priorities for the municipality; (ii) endorse Microcatchment Development
Plans (MDPs) and municipal POAs and pass them on to regional level; (iii) evaluate funding applications against
RIF criteria and local priorities; (iv) approve applications, if appropriate, up to the value of R$5,000 (US$2,000
equivalent); (v) resolve conflicts between stakeholders; and (vi) monitor and evaluate implementation of MDPs.
Executive Bodies
Santa Catarina's SDA has a state-wide mandate for promoting sustainable agricultural and rural development. As in
LM II, SDA would have overall executive responsibility for the project.
State LeveL The State Government has established a PMU (Secretaria Executiva Estadual, SEE) to manage project
implementation with State Decree No. 3954, of January 30, 2002. It would have small departments dealing with
technical management, financial, procurement and administrative management and operation of the RIF.
Under the authority of the SDA (see Figure 2), the PMU would: (i) oversee, coordinate, administer and monitor the
project; (ii) consolidate the beneficiaries' demands, as transmitted by the CCE, CCR and CCM, into a POA, and
submit this Plan to the CCE for analysis and approval; (iii) estimate the project's financial requirements; (iv)
authorize the release of funds and send requests for reimbursement, according to the approved POAs; (v) promote
institutional coordination among the other implementing agencies; (vi) prepare statements of account for the World
Bank and execute procurement procedures under the responsibility of SDA and oversee those to be procured by
other implementing agencies; (vi) prepare management reports for submission to the World Bank and to the State
and Federal Government institutions; (vii) perform related tasks, as designated by CCE. In addition, the PMU,
through the ICEPA, would contract specialized technical assistance to strengthen the PMU and all services for
external project evaluation and financial audit.
The PMU is headed by a Project Executive Secretary (Project Manager) and have a Technical Manager, a Finance
and Administration Manager and a Rural Investment Manager, all appointed by the State Government. A technical
and financial M&E unit is attached directly to the Project Manager's office.
The PMU managers are assisted by a multidisciplinary team of specialists, most of whom are seconded from the
supporting Government organizations--SDA, EPAGRI, SDM, FATMA and ICEPA. Specialized consultants were
hired by ICEPA to strengthen the PMU's capacity in technical, adminiistrative, financial and procurement matters.
Full staff of the PMU would include at least:
* Three professionals attached directly to the Technical Manager (who would be the overall coordinator of project
Components I and 3): a Capacity Building Expert to coordinate the Training and Environmental Education
sub-components; an Agronomist to coordinate the Rural Extens:ion and Research sub-components; and an



93
Environmentalist to coordinate the Environmental Management Component, and who would be appointed
separately by the State Secretary for the Environment.
*   A Grant Processing Officer working under the Rural Investment Manager (the overall coordinator of project
Component 2). He/she would have three general service staff to assist in the operation of the RIF.
*   Three professionals under the Financial and Administrative Manager, including an accountant, a finance officer
and a procurement specialist. They would be responsible for managing the administrative and procurement
functions of the project.
*   One professional to coordinate project M&E. Duties would include the installation and operation of an MIS,
which would be integrated with financial and accounting information and monitoring of project inputs and
outputs.
Regional LeveL To coordinate, administer and monitor the project at the regional level, a small sub-unit attached
directly to the State PMU was established by the State Government by Decree No. 3954 of January 30, 2002, in each
of the 14 administrative regions of the State. The Executive Secretaries of these sub-units are EPAGRI regional
officers, who would be assisted in project execution by a similar small multi-institutional staff of SDA/EPAGRI and
SDM/FATMA personnel, in this case drawn from individuals based in the regional offices of these organizations.
Municipal LeveL Small executive units would be established at the municipal level, each consisting of one rural
extensionist and one social extensionist or rural sociologist at existing EPAGRI municipal offices. They would be
the local project "animators." Working in close collaboration with the CCM, they would initially be responsible for
mobilizing stakeholders and coordinating project publicity. Through the dissemination of project information, they
would increase awareness among the target beneficiaries and other stakeholders of the project objectives,
opportunities and procedures. Subsequently, they would train project technicians, community leaders and the direct
project beneficiaries at the microcatchment level and provide back-up assistance to microcatchment facilitators in
forming MAs and providing technical and social assistance to beneficiaries. They would coordinate the preparation
and implementation of the Municipal POAs to be approved by the CCM. They would be made available by
secondment to project duties from EPAGRI, the municipality or in some case other partners such as NGOs or the
private sector.



94
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project
Figure 1. Project Management Structure
Participatory                                                                 Executive Bodies
Decision Making
Bodies                                                                   Cabinet of Santa Catarina
l                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State Governor
"Deliberative'                             Secretary                                                                        Secretary
Conunittee       4 - - - - - - 0        of Agriculture                                                                  of Envirorunent
(CCE under CEDERURAL)*    i                       (SDA)                                                                            (SDM
Rural Extension,         Agricultural Planning                PMU                         Envirornmetal Management
I             ~~~~~Research and Trainig   rgcu.~ .angUi)nvone..Mngmnt                                                                 STATE
Agency                    Institute            (Project Management Unit)                      ATMA)               Level
Regional                                                                               Regional                                               REGIONAL
(CCR)                                                                                  PMIJLve
" De lib e ra ti ve " C o mm it tee  r-                                     -PMULe ve l
Municipal       1                                                                      Municipal                                               MUNICIPAL
"Deliberative" Committee 4  _ -   - - - - - - - - - - -    -------            --_           PMU offices
(CCM)            .                                                                 (2 extensionists)
Microcatchment       t                      -                                         Microcatchment
Associahons        {                                                               Extensionist/facilitator
* CEDERURAL: State Rural Development Council



95
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project
Figure 2. Project Management Unit Structure
STA TE Level                                                                                          M&EOfficer
Tehia Manage                                                         Financial-Adrnnistrative             Rua Inetiet
Technical Manager
.   |                                                     ~~~~~~          ~~                ~~~~~~~~~~Manager  Mangr
Coordinator of              Coordinator of              Coordinator of                      _r.
Training and             Rural Extension and           Environmental                                        Finance                Pra
Environmental Education            Research                  Management                                           Officer                 Oce
Activities                  Activities                   Activities
REGIONAL Level                                                           ( Regional PMI Coordinator
(EPAGRI Extensionist) 
Municipal PMU Offices
MUNICIPAL Level                                                                  (2 Extensionists)
MlCROCATCHMENTLevel                                                      |      eMicrocatchmento     l
Exten sion is tFac ilitator 



96
Brazil
Natural Resources Management Rural Poverty Redujction Project - Santa Catarina
Annex 13
Indigenous People's Straitegy
Introduction and Background
About 94% of the approximately 7,000 IP of Santa Catarina live in 10 regularized indigenous lands which comprise
about 40,000 hectares. It is important to recognize that these territories do not provide the natural resource base
that could support the land extensive aboriginal adaptations. Currently, the Kaingang, Xokleng and Guarani
peoples of Santa Catarina live by a mix of economic activities including extraction, subsistence and some
commercialized agriculture (e.g. tobacco), non-agricultural income generating activities (e.g. handicrafts),
periodic wage labor and public sector jobs (e.g. teachers and health agents).
The IP of Santa Catarina, similar to the non-Indian marginalized rural population of the state, live in a situation of
dire poverty and significant degradation of their natural resources. Hence, considering the project's objectives of
reducing poverty and improving natural resource management in rural areas, IP are included as one of the priority
beneficiary populations of the project. It is not anticipated that the project would generate any negative effects on IP
that would need to be mitigated.
It is important to note that, under this project, it would be the first time the State of Santa Catarina will work directly
with IP on sustainable development. One of the basic elements of the State Government of Santa Catarina Plan is a
proposal to cooperate in the process of indigenous development, respacting the principle of cultural pluralism and
respect for the environment. Specifically, it is also the first time that State's agriculture and development and
enviromnent agencies will include IP, as per their interest, for extension, technical and organizational assistance and
other assistance to help improve their production activities, natural resource management and conservation and
agricultural and non-agricultural income generation.
The project would offer a variety of support to IP in targeted microcatchments, including, among others: assistance
in establishing or strengthening local organizations (Components I ancl 4); support for special studies or diagnostics
and formulation of Microcatchment Development Plans (Component l), and in some cases river basin planning
(Component 3); technical assistance for implementing specific Development Plans for their areas (Component 2); as
well as access to the RIF to help finance activities in improving production, environmental rehabilitation, improving
housing and sanitation and income generation activities (Component 2).
Consultations carried out with the three indigenous groups during project preparation brought some lively discussion
with regards to the project proposal and demonstrated that they are positive about participating in the project; more
specifically, the indigenous groups welcomed potential assistance with environmental management, production,
housing and income generation and viewed favorably the project's participatory methodology and decentralized
decision-making structure. They also expressed interest in working directly with state agencies, in particular
EPAGRI (technical assistance and extension).
It is also important to note that the project overall is a "process project" (i.e., in continuous evolution) and that the
indigenous strategy is to maximize IPs' access to on-going project activities described in this project document,
making adjustments as needed (described below) to ensure that: their socio-cultural values and organizations are
respected; they are empowered in the decision-making processes of the project; special considerations for natural
resource use in indigenous lands are taken into consideration; and that special monitoring of IP activities is assured.
The targeting procedures for the project, described in detail in Section 3 and in the Social Assessment (Annex 11),
ensure that the presence of IP in a municipality or microcatchment will function as a weighted criterion for the
targeting of that area for inclusion in the project.
Finally, it should be recognized that given the broad range and demand-driven nature of the project, it would be able
to assist indigenous communities with the majority of their concerns that were articulated during the consultations.



97
The project addresses social concerns (e.g., improvement of housing and food self sufficiency), economic issues
(e.g., strengthening income generating enterprises) and environmental concerns (e.g., reintroduction of native fauna
species), thus contributing to improving the overall sustainability of indigenous communities.
Overview of IP of Santa Catarina
According to the Brazilian National Indian Foundation (FUNAI), the indigenous population of Brazil is
approximately 326,000 and indigenous lands cover 946,452 square kms (about 11% of the national territory). Of
the national population, about 27,950 IP live in Southern Brazil (8.6%) of which about 7,000 (2%) live in Santa
Catarina. These include the Kaingang, Xokleng and the Guarani indigenous peoples. The Guarani are subdivided
into two sub-groups, the Mbya and the Nandeva (or Chiripa). One characteristic shared by these three ethnicities is
that they all define themselves traditionally as people of the forests, with their cultures, social organization and
livelihoods strongly linked to the natural resources of the sub-tropical Atlantic Forests.
The IPs of Santa Catarina were victims of the historical process of colonization of the state and social exclusion that
contributed to a current day situation of poverty and degraded natural resources in indigenous areas. In the 1970s,
the well known ethnologist Silvio Coelho dos Santos characterized the IPs of Santa Catarina as victims of a long
process of white domination that profoundly modified their original cultures and contributed to the disappearance of
the sub-tropical Atlantic Forest (plains and Brazilian pine forests) that was their traditional habitat. He also
concluded that while prolonged contact with whites had provided some resistance to new diseases and eventual
demographic stability, it had also left the remaining indigenous population in a precarious situation in terms of
livelihoods, health and education. He observed that the relationship between the national society and IP was
generally characterized by violence and by white cultural, political, linguistic and economic dominance and by a
large social gulf between the groups.
Most of the IP of Santa Catarina live in areas administered by FUNAI that are concentrated in three distinct
locations in the state: (i) the west (predominantly Kaingang), (ii) the Alto Vale do Itajai (predominantly Xokleng),
and (iii) the coast (predominantly Guarani).  As stated, there are 10 indigenous lands regularized (the major
Xokleng area is currently under consideration for expansion); and in addition, there are another 10 indigenous lands
that are either being identified or are pending where fewer people, largely Guarani, reside. There are also some
indigenous families that live dispersed, both in rural and urban places. Table A summarizes the indigenous land
tenure situation in the state.
More recently, scholars have observed increasing contacts between IP and national society, in particular greater
integration of IP, many of whom are significantly acculturated, in the larger rural economy. Nonetheless, the
indigenous groups of Santa Catarina insist on and maintain their ethnic identities. Some recent observers have
remarked on an on-going process of cultural revitalization.
In summary, independent from the degree of integration with the national society, the IPs of Santa Catarina are
preserving their ethnic identities both as specific ethnic groups and as IP. All want the right to be IP and be
respected. They are trying to maintain their languages, intimately linked to maintaining their culture and worldview,
and their life ways that are so intimately linked to their territories, traditional knowledge (such as of the biological
diversity of the Atlantic Forest) and the sustainable use of natural resources.
Kaingang IP
According to the Anthropological Diagnosis: Indigenous Component of UHE Chapeco Falls ( Fernandes and Kurtz
de Almeida, 2001), the Kaingang belong to the linguistic family Macro-Jo and are traditional inhabitants of the
Brazilian pine forests (araucaria) in the states of Sao Paulo, ParanA, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, where
their presence is documented as of the 1600s. People of the forests and warriors, the Kaingang resisted and tried to
escape the colonization that took place during the 1 9h century. Nevertheless, the colonists managed to push the
Kaingang from much of their traditional habitat, thus altering the Kaingang culture and economy.
Contacts with the national society and other tribal groups disrupted Kaingang livelihood and reduced their territorial
unity. In their view, their territorial space is defined by their material and social subsistence activities, such as



98
fishing, harvesting pine nuts, honey and wax and the horticultural cultivation of corn, pumpkin, beans and sweet
potatoes. Their subsistence economy is largely defined by what they can extract from nature. Today, they cultivate
subsistence plots of the aforementioned crops, with minor commercialization of surplus production, as well as
working as temporary agricultural wage laborers. More recently, with uncertain returns from fishing, hunting and
agriculture, they have been increasingly unable to feed themselves and have begun to depend on the sale of crafts for
cash to supplement their livelihoods.
Today, the Kaingang, whose population is estimated to be 25,000 people in all of Brazil, live dispersed in thirty
indigenous territories in the states of Sao Paulo, Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul. Despite their
dispersion, they acknowledge themselves as belonging to the same group. During the 1980s attempts to regularize
more of their lands, it was verified that there was a large concentration of Kaingang territory in the western regions
of the State of Santa Catarina, the north and northwestern areas of Ihe State of Rio Grande do Sul and in the
southwestern area of the State of Parana. In the western region of Santa Catarina, five Kaingang indigenous lands
are now regularized: T.I. Xapec6; T.I. Toldo Chimbangue; T.I. Toldo Pinhal; T.I. Toldo Imbu; and T.I. Aldeia
Conda, which are found in the municipalities of Chapec6, Seara, Abelardo Luz, Ipuacu and Entre Rios.
Each of these Kaingang areas differ, particularly with respect to their degree of insertion in the social-political-
economic local context and attachment to the traditional Kaingang culture. In the indigenous lands of Xapec6,
Chimbangue and Toldo Pinhal, it is said that Kaingang traditional cultural values are waning. However, their
relationships to the local national society vary. In T.I. Xapec6 (delimited in 1902, 15,623 ha) with a population of
3,500 to 5,000 individuals, only 20% are said to still speak their native language, with many traditional cultural
practices already lost. The Xapec6 Kaingang are politically and economically quite integrated into the regional
society. For example, today the Kaingang chief is the vice-mayor of the municipality of Ipuacu where three
indigenous representatives serve in municipal government, and there are two indigenous representatives in
municipal government in Entre Rios.
The Kaingang of Toldo Chimbangue area (988 ha), with a population of about 700, appear to be even more
acculturated and even fewer still speak the native language. However, their relationship to neighboring communities
is largely characterized by conflicts deriving from their struggle for land. The Kaingang of Toldo Pinhal (880 ha)
,with a population of about 250, show similar levels of acculturation and language loss. The Toldo Imbu indigenous
land is currently occupied by nine families.
T.I. Aldeia CondA is comprised of about 75 families or 360 individuals, divided in two locations, Gramadinho (52
families) and Praia Bonita (23 families). Although in recent decades they have been relatively involved in the life of
the nearby city of Chapec6, they have maintained more strongly their language and traditional cultural practices.
Unlike other indigenous communities in the region, the Kaingang of Aldeia de Conda do not work as hourly-paid
workers for the neighboring farmers. Since their horticulture remains i ncipient, they depend largely on the sale of
crafts to supplement their livelihoods. Their environmental concerns include the reduction in hunting yields and
their claim that local rivers are being poisoned.
Xokleng IP
Before systematic contact with national society, the Xokleng were nomadic, with livelihoods from hunting and
gathering of pine nuts and other forest products. They did not practice horticulture. The groups, which varied
between 50 to 300 people, spent their winters on the plateau. In the summers, they would go down to the valley and
assemble in larger groups in summer villages where they would celebrate initiation rites, weddings, funeral services
and where they would hunt and plan attacks to their enemies. Once the ceremonial season ended, the village would
be dismantled and the groups would leave for the plateau for the winter.
In contact since the 1910s, today the majority of the approximately 1,010 Xokleng of Santa Catarina live in the T.I.
Ibirama, also called La Klano ( 14,156 ha), temporarily established in the 1920s and officially demarcated in 1965,
located in Alto Vale do Itajal (especially in the municipalities of Vitor Meireles and Jose Boiteux). A smaller group
of Xokleng, approximately 50 people, live in the T.I. Rio dos Pardos (770 ha) which was identified in 1992 and
demarcated in 1998 (770 ha) and is located in the municipalities of Matos Costa and North Plateau. Finally,
approximately 20 families of Xokleng live on the outskirts of the cities of Blumenau, Joinville and Itajai.



99
While the Xokleng of T.I. Rio dos Pardos have a history of intense contact with local society, working in hourly-
paid jobs on neighboring farms or as maids in the municipalities of Calmon and Matos Costa, the Xokleng (of the
Laklano faction) of T.I. Ibirama have survived until today as a more distinct group maintaining their ethnic
autonomy. Various factors have contributed to this, including among others, the history of contact between agents
of the Indigenous Protection Services (SPI, which predated FUNAI) and the Indians, the demarcation of land in the
1920s, the increase in population due to the arrival of some Kaingang from Parana who married some Xokleng and
the type of colonization in the upper and medium valley of the Itajaf River, where a type of "apartheid" was
established which contributed to Xokleng autonomy within their lands.
However, such autonomy did not mean total isolation nor that the Xokleng traditional culture and livelihood has not
changed. T.I. Ibirama has had multiple interethnic contacts. Kaingang and Guarani IP as well as cafuzos
(descendents of Black and indigenous marriages) were introduced by SPI. Although interethnic marriages between
Xokleng, Guarani and cafizos were rare, weddings between Xokleng and Kaingang were more frequent and the
number of mestizos notable. The presence of the Guarani and cafuzos diminished in the early 1990s, when
approximately half of the Guarani migrated to the coast, and the cafuzos were resettled by INCRA on community
lands in Rio Laiesz (municipality of Jose Boiteux).
Starting in the 1960s, economic factors contributed to increased contact with the national society. The T.I. Ibirama
had abundant palm trees until the 1960s, but predatory extraction practices almost entirely destroyed them. This was
followed in the 1970s by timber extraction (with the consent of FUNAI). By the mid-1980s, a significant number of
the timber reserves were gone.
In the last decades, marriages between Xokleng and whites have become more frequent in T.I. Ibirama. The
majority of Xokleng have converted to Pentecostalism since the 1950s and have reformulated their traditional beliefs
and religious practices. Their current rituals are primarily attending the church, Assembly of God, which mobilizes
a large portion of the community. The number of youngsters that speak Xokleng is also decreasing due in part to:
(i) the presence of schools for IP with the same curriculum as the other public schools, with no incentives for
maintenance of Xokleng culture; (ii) interethnic marriages; and (iii) the intensified contact with the national society.
Most youngsters today only speak Portuguese.
The social, economic and political organization of the Xokleng in the T.I. Ibirama underwent an even bigger
transformation during the 1970s with the construction of the North Barragem, a dam that embanked the Hercilio
River at their southeast border, in order to avoid flooding of industrial cities in the low Itajaf valley such as
Blumenau. The retention lake flooded almost 900 ha of their lower lands, and the Xokleng had to move to higher
more densely forested areas. This led to the formation of five smaller villages each of which has its own political
leadership although they select one leader to represent them to the outside world. Living in the hills has led to
intensification of timber extraction, a decrease in horticulture and less productive hunting. Today the Xokleng
practice swidden subsistence cultivation of corn and manioc often on sharply sloping hillsides, as well as minor
cultivation of tobacco for sale. The Xokleng have requested but not yet fully received compensation for their lands
lost to the flooding from dam construction.
Since the 1990s, observers have noted that the ethnic identity of the Xokleng has been undergoing a revitalization.
This appears to be derived in part from the degradation of the natural resource base, their struggle for compensation
and their request for a revision and expansion of the T.I. Ibirama, the study for which was carried out by FUNAI.
Since only the Xokleng are viewed as eligible for compensation, it is notable that FUNAI's most recent census has
seen an increase in those identifying themselves as Xokleng and mestizo and a concomitant decrease of Kaingang.
Internally, however, the Kaingang, mestizos, cafuzos and Guarani are well differentiated from the "pure Xokleng."
Since 1992, the learning of the Xokleng language has been incorporated in the T.I. Ibirama schools, and there is a
movement for the development of a culturally appropriate curriculum. Adults are also increasingly speaking their
native language. Despite restrictions from the Assembly of God, the Xokleng myths are resurfacing and are being
taught to children.
Guarani IP
The Guaranis belong to the linguistic family Tupi-Guarani. In South America, there are four Guarani groups, of
which three are present in Brazil: the Kayova, the Chiripa (or 1landeva) and the Mbya, with a total population in



100
Brazil of about 35,000 individuals. While the Kayova are concentrated in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, the
Nlandeva and the Mbya are located in the midwest, southeast and southern regions. The Mbya communities are the
majority along the southern coast line, approximately 2,500 individuals (7% of the total Guarani population).
In the past they lived traditionally along the southern coastline of Brazil, between the state of Sao Paulo and of Rio
Grande do Sul, the Plate Basin, to the shores of the Parana River, part of the territory of Paraguay, Argentina,
Uruguay and Bolivia. The Guarani practiced swidden horticulture and traditionally inhabited some of the best lands
of the Southern Cone. Their livelihoods are forest based and they (lefine themselves as "Forest Indians." The
Guarani consider their territories as tekoa which must have appropriate natural resources for village life, horticulture
and sufficient forests. The land is fundamental for the Guarani. According to one researcher (MeliA,1989), "The
Guarani ecology is not limited to nature, nor is defined exclusively by productive values. The tekoa means to create
simultaneously the economic, social relations and political-religious organization essential for the Guarani lifestyle."
The tekoa is the place where conditions are met to create the teko, i.e., the Guarani culture, way of life, system, law,
behavior and habit.
Their livelihood involves hunting, fishing, and swidden horticulture in the forest where they plant corn, manioc and
smaller amounts of beans, peanuts, pumpkin, sweet potato, "card" and tobacco for religious purposes. Many
researchers emphasize that the migration and mobility of Guarani are intrinsic to their culture and adaptation to
ecological conditions.
However, more recent studies of the Guarani in Santa Catarina emphasize the lack of adequate land and forest
natural resources due to the destruction of the Atlantic Forests. Hence, Guarani can no longer follow traditional
migration patterns and livelihoods. Today the Gurarani are often found migrating in small groups on the roads and
highways in search of land and selling their handicrafts. Today, more often than not, they are subject to
malnutrition, illnesses, poverty, dependency, alcoholism, depression, psychological and social stress, serious identity
crises among the younger generation, homicides and car accidents.
In Santa Catarina, their presence can be observed from the east coast to the west of the state. However, despite the
fact that Santa Catarina encompasses one of the largest areas of traditional Guarani territory, today it has the smaller
number of indigenous lands for them. Currently, on the south coast ihere are two areas that have a population of
approximately 200 individuals: the T.I. Mbiguacu (68 ha), with a population of about 85 (located in the
municipality of Biguagu), and T.I. Tekoa Marangatu (80 ha), with, a population of about 70 (located in the
municipality of Imarui). Two other lands have been identified and are currently being demarcated: T.I. Massiambu
(5 ha), with 52 people in the municipality of Palhoga, and T.I. Morro dos Cavalos (122 ha), with a population of
about 110 where the demarcation began in October 2001. Besides these four indigenous lands, there are at least 20
other locations in the state where Guarani live.
The Guarani in the indigenous lands consider that the land and forest nrsources are insufficient for their livelihoods.
Hence, the majority of Guarani in Santa Catarina find themselves; in situations of dire poverty. Illnesses,
malnourishment and alcoholism have drastically reduced their population. The commercialization of crafts and a
more sedentary horticulture have become their main livelihoods. De3pite this situation, today after 500 years of
intense and devastating contact with the non-Indian society, the Guarani continue to speak their native language
within their villages (all the Mbya-Guarani, approximately 7,000 in Brazil, are speakers of their native language),
thus continuing to preserve their traditional culture and religious practices.
Indigenous Access to the Project Activities by Components
As described in more detail in the project document (Section C.3, Appendix I of Annex 2 and Annex I1), the
project will target municipalities and microcatchments using social and environmental criteria. The presence of IP is
a weighted criteria, and hence, the project expects to reach at least 70% of the IP in the state. In general, and due to
it highly participatory approach, the project expects that indigenous areas will form microcatchment areas with their
own decision-making body and that the Microcatchment Development Plan to be developed will be specifically
suited to the realities of the indigenous area, including, among others, socio-cultural and other considerations as this
area/land is not private property and natural resource management must conform to guidelines in existing legislation
such as the Estatuto do Indio. The project has already allocated resources to ensure that there will be 6-8 facilitators



101
specifically prepared and capable of working with indigenous populations and that in the case of the scattered small
groups of Guarani that such facilitators would cover more than one microcatchment area.
With respect to Component 1, Institutional Development and Organization, project resources pertinent to IP will be
available to support a variety of types of training, both to implementers and beneficiaries (Sub-component 1.1);
environmental education activities (Sub-component 1.2), rural extension to promote the project and assist group
formation and microcatchment planning as well as training project personnel (Sub-component 1.3); and adaptive and
social research and studies to carry out diagnostics or develop specialized technologies (Sub-component 1.4). While
some of this component's activities have been predetermined, financing will also be made available for demand-
driven activities proposed by beneficiaries including IP. Examples of what could be financed with respect to IP
include, e.g., participatory diagnostic studies, formulation of specific indigenous Microcatchment Development
Plans (for more details see "Indigenous Participation" below), development of cultural archives and local histories;
and environmental educational programs with young people.
Component 2, Rural Investment, will provide grants for demand-driven community, group and family sub-projects
as identified in the Microcatchment Development Plan, in the following areas: (i) environmentally sustainable
production activities (e.g., improving agricultural techniques, improving water management); (ii) living conditions
(e.g., improving dwellings and basic sanitation); and (iii) income generation (e.g., supporting agricultural and non-
agricultural enterprises, e.g., honey or handicrafts). This component also provides support for technical assistance.
The project will also act as a catalyst for other federal (such as PRONAF), state and/or municipal programs in
support of sustainable watershed development. To that end, it is designed to facilitate access of the project
beneficiaries to resources available under these programs, so as to finance aspects of the Microcatchment
Development Plan not eligible for financing under the project.
Through Component 4, Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, support would be available from: (i) Sub-
component 4.1 for a social scientist to coordinate indigenous activities in the project implementation unit; (ii) Sub-
component 4.2 for local-level monitoring and evaluation activities; and (iii) Sub-component 4.3, Local Participatory
Management, for activities such as strengthening indigenous organizations.
Legal Issues
The Brazilian Constitution of 1988 marked a departure point from previous integrationist policies and provides a
firm basis for the recognition by the nation-state of the perpetual usufruct rights of IP in Brazil to their territories,
excluding sub-soil rights. The regularization of indigenous lands in Brazil is comprised of a multi-staged process
led by FUNAI to identify and delimit, demarcate, register and homologate indigenous lands. The process of land
regularization is further regulated by Decree 1775, adopted in 1996 which replaced Decree 22. It is imnportant to
observe that in recent years significantly more progress on regularizing indigenous lands in the Amazon region has
been accomplished than in southern Brazil, in part related to the greater challenges faced in southern Brazil,
including, among others, greater non-Indian population densities, competing land claims and conflicts and
compensation issues. Nonetheless, as stated previously, the Xokleng T.I. Ibirama is currently being revised, and the
regularization of several Guarani areas are also underway (see Table A).
Decree 1141, adopted in 1994, authorizes FUNAI, in conjunction with the Ministry of Environment, to carry out
environmental activities including, among others, environmental diagnostics, recuperation of degraded areas,
environmental enforcement, environmental education and identification and dissemination of environmentally
appropriate technologies, although FUNAI's capabilities to fulfill these functions is highly constrained.
The 1973 Indian Statute, currently being revised, defines IP as being in tutelage, essentially minors under the law. It
also provides a series of guidelines about natural resource use in indigenous lands, including, for example,
regulations pertaining to third-party natural resource use concessions. Such guidelines are not always adhered to.
For the past ten years, there has been considerable debate in Brazil to pass a revised Indian Statute and an attempt
was made to adopt the new Statute in 2000 to mark the 500 year anniversary. Due to a lack of consensus on the
draft legislation by indigenous organizations, the statute was not adopted in 2000 but has continued to be debated.
Characteristics of the proposed legislation include an end to the status of tutelage and improved natural resource
guidelines.



102
Institutional Arrangements
The SDA, via EPAGRI, is the main government entity responsible for project execution with respect to extension,
training and technical assistance in relation to sustainable development of microcatchments, improving natural
resource management and income generation (Components 1, 2 and 4). The SDM, via FATMA, is primarily
responsible for execution of Component 3, Environmental Management.
EPAGRI's experience to date with IP has been limited, primarily seed distribution and the provision of some
technical assistance and training for apiculture activities under PRONAF (National Smallholders Agricultural
Program), but they are committed to the mutual learning experience necessary to expand activities under the project.
Given the considerable flexibility in this "process project," EPAGRI expects to proceed by establishing partnerships
directly with IP and with other governmental and non-governmental entities and organizations with more
experience, as described below. Furthermore, the selection and specialized training of EPAGRI project facilitators
who will work with IP will be done in conjunction with each indigenous group, and new methods such as training
local assistants will be explored. It has also been agreed that a social scientist (anthropologist) to coordinate and
closely monitor and supervise actions with respect to IP will be included in the overall project implementation unit
(Secretaria Executiva Estadual, SEE) as well as resources for consultancies with specialized anthropologists (see
Annex 12, Project Management Structure). In addition, and to ensuwe proper assistance to IP communities, the
project has already allocated resources to ensure that there will be 6-8 facilitators specifically prepared and capable
of working with indigenous populations and that in the case of the scattered small groups of Guarani that such
facilitators would cover more than one microcatchment area.
Given that it was agreed in consultation with each indigenous group that specific mechanisms and arrangements for
working with them would be further discussed and agreed with them and would be customized for each ethnicity,
what are described here are principles that will guide the project implementation with respect to IP.
FUNAI provides some oversight and services for IP in the state (one regional administrative office in Chapeco, and
one support station in Palhoca which is linked to the FUNAI regional administrative office in Curitiba, ParanA),
albeit limited, and FUNAI already has good working relationships with the decentralized services for health and
education which are carried out by FUNASA (National Health Foumdation) and the Nucleus for Indigenous
Education of the State Secretariat for Health and Sports (SED) respectively. FUNASA, with almost two years
experience in Santa Catarina, was observed by indigenous representalives to be quite successful, and the state's
education program for the last decade is also viewed favorably. FJNASA's approach of Local Councils and
formation of a network of local health agents provides a pertinent par:icipatory model for the project as does the
education initiatives of schools, local teacher training, school associations and local councils.
The project preparation team met with FUNAI, FUNASA and SED, and the three entities have agreed to collaborate
in facilitating the project, coordinating actions and activities and building upon existing initiatives wherever
possible. A Cooperation Agreement will be signed between SDA and FUJNAI at the latest, one year after Loan
Effectiveness. Cooperation with the other two institutions will be ensure under existing arrangements for the sectors
of education and health respectively.
In addition, there is a new State IPs Council (CEPINISC) created by Law 11,266 on December 16, 1999 and
designed to articulate activities relating to IP in the State. It is comprised of 24 members: six from government
(State Secretariats of Justice, Rural Development and Agriculture (SDA), Education and Sports (SED), Social
Development and the Family, Urban Development and Environment and Health),; six from NGOs; and 12
indigenous representatives (four from each of the three ethnicities). However, as this council is still in its early
stages and not functioning fully effective yet, it is not expected to have a specific role under the project. However,
and to ensure proper coordination with existing bodies, the project will be formally presented to CEPIN/SC in the
immediate future.
During project preparation, contact and collaboration was carried out with specialists (particularly with the Federal
University of Santa Catarina and the University Museum and the Nucleus for Studies of Indigenous Populations) as
well as with non-governmental organizations, in particular the Catholic affiliated CIMI (Indigenist Missionary
Council) and CAPI (Commission for Support to Indigenous Populations); the project will continue to draw expertise
and support from the aforementioned, on a case by case basis as appropriate, as well as other NGOs existing in the



103
State.
Finally, it was verified that the majority of indigenous communities have one or more type of community
association for possible implementation of project activities, in particular the Microcatchment Development Plans
for indigenous areas. Among the Kaingang, nine indigenous organizations were cited one of which is a cooperative.
Among the Xokleng, they cited five associations, one for each village, and the proposal to form one for the entire
group; and the Guarani cited the existence of three associations with others in formation. The project will need to
carry out a careful evaluation of the existing local organizations particularly with respect to their relationship to
indigenous and non-Indian political structures, representativeness, legalization of entities, capabilities and other
dimensions.
Indigenous Participation in the Project
Participation during preparation. This Indigenous Peoples Strategy was developed to respond to the World Bank
Operational Directive 4.20 and with the objective of maximizing effective indigenous participation in the project.
Hence, the project preparation team worked closely with representatives of the University Museum (Ethnology Unit
of the UFSC), the university (UFSC), FUNAI, CIMI (Conselho Indigenista Missiondrio) and other indigenist NGOs
to identify how the project might best address key concerns of the indigenous communities in Santa Catarina.
Consultations were carried out in 1998 for a preliminary diagnostic and resumed again starting in September 2001
after a gap of approximately two years during which the project was temporarily tabled. In November 2001, the
aforementioned representatives were again consulted, as well as a representative of the new State Indigenous
Council (CEPIN), on the preliminary draft of the indigenous strategy. In January 2002, three consultations with
leaders and indigenous representatives of the three ethnicities were held with approximately 140 individuals (30
Guarani, 32 Kaingang and 80 Xokleng) and follow-up meetings are already scheduled (over the next several
months).
Indigenous Concerns and Needs. All three indigenous groups identified the following as their main concerns and
needs: (i) land tenure issues (particularly for certain areas); (ii) lack of appropriate livelihood systems and hence the
need to improve subsistence agriculture; (iii) the need to develop income generation activities; (iv) the need for
technical assistance in agricultural production, administration and management, recuperation and preservation of
natural resources; (v) the need for improving housing and sanitation; and (vi) ensuring appropriate mechanisms for
indigenous representation in public spheres both in general and for the project. The indigenous leaders are also
seeking to increase their role in public spheres outside their areas (as amply demonstrated by Kaingang involvement
in municipal politics) and are sensitized to their need to confront and work with local power structures which are
often discriminatory against IP. The communities also demonstrate a concern with the revitalization of their ethnic
identities. They expressed a strong interest in technical assistance and investments that would help guarantee their
self sufficiency and sustainability within their areas and decrease the need to work as rural wage laborers. During
the consultations, it was clarified with stakeholders that the project is designed to assist directly with all of the
aforementioned concerns except for land regularization which is in the federal domain, although it will facilitate
land questions as much as possible.
Indigenous Participation in the Project. The project is designed to guarantee the interactive participation of
diverse stakeholders, including IPs, in the processes of planning, management, execution, monitoring and evaluation
of actions by means of forums at different levels of decision-making. The project considers that the participation of
[P will signify a mutual learning process on the part of both technical personnel and the IP. It is further emphasized
that by no means are the IP of Santa Catarina homogeneous and that appropriate processes and methodologies will
need to be developed with respect to each ethnicity. Principles that will be followed in the project will be to
minimize intermediaries between the IP and flow of investment resources, maximization of local decision-making
and to use existing local organizations and mechanisms as much as possible.
The project organizational structure includes: a Microcatchment Association (or its equivalent) at the level of each
microcatchment area (or indigenous area), Municipal Deliberative Committees (CCM), Regional Deliberative
Committees (CCR) and a State Delibemtive Committee (CCE). The Microcatchment Association is 100%
beneficiaries, whereas the municipal, regional and state deliberative committees are equally divided between
representatives of the executing agencies and beneficiaries. It was agreed that when IP are present in an area, their
representation on the municipal and regional commissions will be assured. One indigenous representative will be



104
selected for the project's CCE.
Diagnostic, planning, formulation of the Microcatchment Developmen: Plan and, subsequently, specific community,
group and family sub-projects, implementation and monitoring are expected to be local level responsibilities
attributable to the MA or its equivalent for IP.  The MDP is a document that will be developed by the local
community in the following manner. A local animating group works together with the project facilitator to carry out
first dissemination and then diagnostic meetings that will provide local people with basic socioeconomic and
environmental data (from the census and other sources) and permit an ample discussion and prioritization of local
social, economic and environmental problems. The facilitator will use visual methods (e.g., color coding, etc.) to
identify the urgency and expected outcomes of identified problems.
Based on the community generated diagnosis, various alternatives and solutions to problems are discussed and
identified in community meetings. Based on these alternatives, priority activities and actions are identified in the
social, economic and environmental areas. For each priority action, the proposed solution, necessary steps, those
responsible and timing is identified and included in the MDP. The Plan also includes a basic map, identification of
the animators and association leadership and a budget.
The review and approval of the MDP will be done respectively by the MA, municipal and regional deliberative
committees. ft is important to note that the goal of the Microcatchmenit Plan is to formulate a plan "owned" by the
local population. It is a flexible document which can also be used to monitor problems and actions, and can be
updated and revised periodically.
Based on the specific MDP, the community, groups and families may develop activities for project financing in the
areas of environmental education, training, organizational strengthening and others under Components I and 4 as
described previously. They can also develop sub-projects proposals for grant financing from Component 2,
Investment Fund. Review and approval of sub-projects will be done for smaller projects by the Municipal
Deliberative Committee; larger ones, by the Regional Deliberative Committee; and largest ones, by the State
Deliberative Committee (thresholds specified in the project document and in the Project Operational Manual).
Special care will be taken to ensure that commissions considering indigenous sub-projects have sufficient
indigenous representation; if not, special arrangements to move review and approval to the state level will be
considered.
The execution and administration of local projects will be carried out by the MA or its equivalent for IP, as well as
by groups and families. Monitoring and evaluation is discussed below.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The indigenous MDPs and related sub-projects will be monitored and evaluated by a participatory process--by the
beneficiaries and the facilitator. Simultaneously, there will be physical and financial monitoring as well as
monitoring of results. Persons and organizations implementing activities will be trained in basic monitoring and
evaluation techniques (see more details in Annex 2, Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-component).
Based on local-level monitoring, facilitators will produce quarterly implementation reports for the overall project
implementation unit which will also be reviewed by the aforementioned indigenous specialist, who will be affiliated
to the PMU (SEE). It has also been agreed that an independent evaluation of activities in indigenous areas will be
carried out prior to the project's mid-term evaluation scheduled for the third year.
Project monitoring and evaluation will include the following:
(i) Implementation: Evaluation of established structures and processes, to ensure they are adequate for the targets
and timetables planned by indigenous communities, including suggestions for modifications or adaptations to
improve activities. Evaluations will be based on community-level monitoring and facilitators' reports, as well as
field visits as needed.
(ii) Financial: There will be monitoring of financial resource flow and financial management of project resources,
ensuring adherence to project norms. Special training to assist in the administration and management of financial



105
resources will be provided.
(iii) Participation: There will be continuous monitoring of indigenous participation in the different levels of project
decision-making forums, and the possibility to propose modifications as needed.
(iv) Technical Personnel: There will be careful monitoring of technical staff (facilitators, extensionists) working
with IP.
Table A Status of Indigenous Lands of Santa Catarina
Land         Group       Situation      Encompassed        Area        Estimated
Municipalities   (hectares)    Population
Cachoeira dos     Guarani     Unknown           Imarui           78            90
Inacios -         M'bya
Marangatu
Cambirela         Guarani      Pending         Palhoga        Undefined       15 (9)
N,andeva                    _____
Morro Alto -      Guarani      Pending         Araquari       Undefined        45
Laranjeiras       M'bya
Massiambu         Guarani      Pending         Palhoga          4.06           66
M'bya
M'bigua9u         Guarani      Pending         Biguagu           50            86
Nandeva e
M'bya
Moffo dos         Guarani      Pending         Palho9a           120           92
Cavalos
Pindoty           Guarani      Pending         Araquari       Undefined        30
M'bya
Corveta           Guarani   In identification  Araquari         Part of        27
M'bya                                        Pindoty
Gravata           Guarani   In identification  Navegantes       Part of         6
Mbya                                         Pindoty
Rio Inferninho   Guarani    In identification  Araquari         Part of        22
Mbya                                         Pindoty
Piraf             Guarani   In identification  Araquari       Undefined        17
M'bya
Toldo Pinhal     Kaingang    Homologated        Seara           880.07         117
La Klano         Xokleng/     Registered   Doutor Pedrinho,    14,084.88      1,650
Guarani                    Itai6polis, Jose
Boiteux & Vitor
Meireles
Aldeia Conda     Kaingang     Identified       Chapec6         2,300.23     257 a 276
Ara9ai           Guarani      Identified     Cunha Pora e      1,728.23        99
Saudades
Rio dos Pardos   Xokleng     Demarcated       Porto Uniao       758.26         50
Toldo Imbu       Kaingang     Identified     Abelardo Luz      2,210.86        173
Toldo            Kaingang    Homologated       Chapec6          988.66         294
Chimbangue                                                  I            I_I
Toldo           Kaingang/     Identified       Chapec6          968.57         45



106
Land          Group       Situation      Encompassed         Area        Estimated
Municipalities    (hectares)    Population
Chimbangue I      Guarani
Xapec6           Kaingang/   Homologated    Ipua,u & Entre Ri.os  15,623.95     3,485
Guarani
Source: FUNAI.



MAP SECTION






_________--  ~~(VENE7UEL~ A 7;C,  (FRNC
iuLC)MbIA~'  2s  :.'  ~          -SURINAME .L.iAN
C  CL L   IA  B I  A       K,
-o ~ ~ ~ ~~~r  .>t_  .     I          ? 
t ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ '      Il  !- ;;;  /
Ks I-_      y   r,N  0  R  T  H
J   I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U;I
*  c-  c,                                                    ..~-~  *kioIeza 1   g - 
_N LA-3kA-
I - 1-;- - 1, j#{ '~ ,rCEN,,ER- WESTe:
i- B C I !) aL< isq 4 F. .J. I vtd ' | | It Al  1]               D
W~~~~~~~I          *    I     -                    p.' r.H  i  )  Tc - -  > tI .A -. 1l. e....... '-l D LNPCaPTe
F       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
N 1   f ~ ''       rl9               ,-                    '.T< ;-t r  lt1,j & 16l
t.- II ' ,I I Cx. ,_ LA C'A
4 *$ iICCl
P E R U                                                              b x _ 9 | , ,is T ,-: 1,, F.PARt-GHA'  ANEtGIPt
K 1  CENTER- WEST. ''-'  -  _;
E~~~ _X!- t'I_ II L-
IT H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUH B                        R.  A  Z I L 
> ~ ~ ~ ~~.  R9  G' E  N  T  I              ,N ;.A  '.''l
C H L E ,) '-r  \                .  ,OHEAS      i e.: -rAYt            3r
I            \PARAGU.' - F.-.          j . __
/,          V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
_ _ _ _   C  /-  / 1  I:;, Z-                    1989
z t { i ~~ > S( IwJTH ...... >1'-' J ~, r l  A  Z   IIL
'-6 Ea:l  |I  ;AR G ENT IJN A~ Cr      --UHq  !gt:,     RAI
|~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ I  ,.  /   IIILr  a          .. ;rlCP,o
'~~~~~ .    .        .', I:i;, ,  ,.1, ,_--lrl o-g
'~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~         F.. .;           .:c   .  ..  - s  ~8 r 
_           |  t ; \ C ; j !RUGUA   I(              rl..;31 onol Br.,dr.d3,
| g -  p U R U o 11 ;s Y st          _ * ,         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 1 989



