Report No. 23459
Report No: I043869 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/19/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BRAZIL Project ID: P043869
Project: Santa Catarina Natural Resources Management Project      Task Team
Leader: Graciela Lituma
Appraisal Date: March 27, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m): 62.70
Board Date: June 27, 2002        IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSER     Sector: VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project objective is to reduce rural poverty in the State of Santa
Catarina, while improving the management of natural resources. Poor
farmers' families incomes and livelihoods would be improved by (i) support
for Government efforts to integrate environmental and social
sustainability into development and poverty reduction strategies, (ii)
enhanced local governance and community participation in decision making,
(iii) reversed land degradation and better protection of the State's
natural resources and (iv) improvements to income-generating opportunities
and living conditions for the rural poor.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project would be implemented over six years and would have a
base cost of US$ 106.1 million. Its goal would be to relieve poverty and
improve living conditions among small and marginal farmers, rural laborers
and indigenous people in the State of Santa Catarina. Compared to the
previous Land Management II Project (LM II, Loan 3160-BR), this successor
project would address more directly the constraints that are the current
causes of poverty among this target group. Poverty would be reduced by:
(i) supporting State Government efforts to integrate environmental and
social sustainability into strategies to alleviate poverty and improve
rural livelihoods; (ii) promoting enhanced decentralization and community
participation in decision-making; (iii) reducing degradation and improving
protection of the State's natural resources; and (iv) improving incomes
and living conditions for the rural poor. The project would be implemented
in about half of the 1,683 microcatchments into which the State is
divided, covering an area of approximately 4 million hectares. Although
the target group will be the poorest segments of the population living in
those areas (about 80,000 families including indigenous families), the
project would encourage the participation of all members of the
microcatchment in particular for environmental activities. The project
direct beneficiaries are estimated at approximately 105,000 families. It
would have four components:
(i) Institutional Development and Organization (US$ 25.4 million; 23.9w
of base cost): An extensive training sub-component would finance
preparation of both implementers and beneficiaries for behavioral changes
and new modes of operation that are implicit in the new technical
strategy. Training of 75,000 farmers and 14,650 municipal leaders in the
principles and practice of rural diagnosis, group formation and operation,
participatory planning and stakeholder monitoring would be complemented by
appropriate practical or technical courses, such as techniques for



sustainable land management, product diversification and agro-processing.
A sub-component for environmental education would boost public awareness
of, and commitment to, solving environmental problems in general, reaching
the above farmers and leaders plus some 3,000 other stakeholders.To allow
schools within the benefiting microcatchment areas comply with Federal
laws on environmental teaching, 1,000 environmental teaching projects
would also be financed. A rural extension sub-component would have as its
main objective the promotion of the project among the rural poor by
providing information, motivating decision-making bodies about the
project, assisting group formation, assisting beneficiaries in preparing
microcatchment and farm plans and assembling the community demands for
social as well as technical and financial support.This sub-component would
support rural extension and technical assistance to individuals and
communities. An adaptive and social research sub-component would respond
to specific technology adaptation and information needs arising from
demand-led participatory development programs. A technical assistance for
structural adjustment sub-component would finance special studies and
consultancies to assist the State in its structural reform efforts.
(ii) Rural Investment (US$ 68.9 million; 64.9 W of base cost): A Rural
Development Fund would be the instrument to induce the adoption of the
project strategy within the benefited microcatchment. The fund
contemplates three categories of grants: (i) those for home improvements
such as piped water, sanitation or waste disposal as well as minor
structural improvements to housing (available only to poorer farmers and
landless laborers) residing in the microcatchment); (ii) those used for
conservation and environmental purposes such as reforestation, protection
of water sources or schemes to increase biodiversity; and (iii) those for
income generation, whether through improvements to production systems,
value-added schemes or job creation. Use of grants would be demand-led,
and a consequence of the microcatchment development plans and individual
plans.
(iii) Environmental Management (US$ 4.1 million; 3.8w of base cost): A
sub-component for watershed management would expand the incipient State
efforts of integrating environmental and river basin management policies
and laws. It would pilot the preparation and implementation of three
river basin sub-catchment plans, using project microcatchment plans as the
building blocks. Selection criteria for the watersheds/sub-catchments
include the importance of the habitats they contain, threats to
biodiversity, their current under-representation among existing State PA
System, poor water quality due to poorly managed pig waste or pesticide
use, a high concentration of the target group and the prior existence of
local commitment to or implementation capacity for environmental
activities. A sub-component to create ecological corridors and protected
areas would oversee preparation of the regulations and its dissemination
and the application of the newly enacted State PA System law and the soon
to be enacted "Lei do ICMS Ecol6gico" to which Santa Catarina is
committed. This would foster the creation of public and private PAs to be
able to promote and develop the ecological corridors. One existing State
Park (Tabuleiro) would be consolidated. Promotion of new public and
private PAs, as well as consolidation of two ecological corridors, would
begin.
(iv) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 7.8 million; 7.3w
of base cost): A sub-component for project management would set up and
operate the PMU at state level and 14 subsidiary units at regional
levels. Regional units would act as executive arms for the stakeholder
- 2 -



bodies responsible for participative planning, decision-making and
oversight of implementation at state, regional, municipal and
microcatchment levels. Project monitoring, evaluation and the distribution
of findings would be supported under a sub-component for monitoring and
evaluation. A sub-component for community organization would provide
separate resources for the creation and operation of all categories of
stakeholder bodies. The PMU would be under the Secretariat for Rural
Development and Agriculture (SDA) and its head would be appointed by the
Secretary of Rural Development and Agriculture. The State and regional
units would be largely staffed by secondments from implementing partner
organizations within the Government, particularly the State Agricultural
Research and Rural Extension Enterprise (EPAGRI), SDA, the State
Secretariat for Urban Development and Environment (SDM) and the State
Environmental Management Foundation (FATMA).
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is located in the Brazilian Southern State of Santa Catarina,
and would be implemented in about half of the 1,683 microcatchments into
which the State is divided, covering an area of approximately 4 million
hectares.
Key stakeholders are small and marginal farmers and indigenous people,
whose interests would be represented through their participation in
Microcatchment Associations and municipal bodies. More specifically, the
project would bring economic and social benefits to this target
population, consisting of an estimated 105,000 small and marginal farmers'
families and indigenous people. The priority target group consists of
rural poors with a net on-farm income of less than two salaries, including
those classified as "marginal" (net on-farm income of less than one
minimum wage), "transitional type 1" (net on-farm income of less than two
minimum wages), and indigenous people. This priority target group includes
an estimated 80,000 poor rural families, i.e., 75 W of families to be
benefited under the project.
The State holds about 15t of the country's outstanding Atlantic forest,
considered one of the major world centers of plant diversity (20,000
vascular plant species, 40t endemic). These forests are distributed
throughout the State, and include five important habitat types: tropical
moist broadleaf forests, Araucaria or dense and mixed ombrophyle forests,
restingas or coastal scrub on sandy soils, natural grasslands and
mangroves.
Although these forests were originally distributed throughout the country,
comprising an estimated area of 1,360,000 km2, there are only 8t or less
remaining of the total original cover. Out of these remnants, about 33,000
km2 are under legal protection, of which, 3t are found in the State Santa
Catarina. The existing state system of parks and reserves consists of two
State Parks (Tabuleiro and Serra Furada) and three Biological Reserves,
covering about 100,000 hectares in 18 of the 293 municipalities of the
State. These Protected Areas cover only lt of the State territory, and are
widely scattered.
-3-



The State also holds important aquatic resources, including state,
national and transboundary river basins, and an outstanding coastal and
marine environment.
As mentioned in the above (see I.A.3), the project sub-component
Ecological Corridors and Protected Areas would promote the creation
ecological corridors and protected areas (private PAs (RPPN) or municipal
parks and reserves). It would also promote the consolidation of the
existing Tabuleiro State Park.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Based on the assessment of potential impacts presented below
(see Section II.D.1.a), the project is proposed for a Category B
designation. It is being designed to ensure compliance with the
requirements of the Bank umbrella policy on Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01). Despite the largely positive or neutral project impacts
anticipated, submission of an EA and respective EMP was considered prudent
to ensure conformity with the aforementioned Bank policy. The borrower
submitted the draft EA in October 2001, and a revised EA on 11 December
2001. Key provisions of the EA will be incorporated within the project 's
Operational Manual (a condition for Effectiveness).
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Social Assessment has been completed by the borrower (see "Social
Assessment Executive Summary" in Annex 11 of PCD/PAD). To implement the
project, no involuntary physical displacement or relocation of people will
take place.
Environmental Assessment: Project activities having potential
environmental impacts would mostly be those financed by the Rural
Development Fund. Impacts of the majority would be positive or neutral -
e.g. from improved soil and water conservation, replanting of riparian
forests, water source protection, domestic sanitation and improved
handling of pig waste. Impacts of any mis-directed support for
- 4 -



agricultural diversification, agro-processing, aquaculture or
rehabilitation of small rural roads could however be negative, but would
be avoided by proposing mitigation measures (see Section 4 below).
Indigenous Peoples (IP): The indigenous population of Santa Catarina is
estimated to be about 7,000 people, with 94t living in 10 regularized
indigenous lands (about 40,000 ha). The indigenous peoples include the
Xokleng, the Kaingang and the Guaranis, as well as about 500 mestizos.
Historically, these people have depended on the Atlantic forest resources,
and their economic systems are primarily oriented to subsistence
production. However, as a result of various activities undertaken in the
last 100 years by the majority non-indigenous population, leading to the
drastic reduction of the forest, these groups are now
among the poorest segments of southern Brazilian society and have never
benefited from development. Impacts of the project on livelihoods of
indigenous people are expected to be positive, as the project aims at
reducing poverty of poor farmers' families and indigenous people, which
would result in improvements to income-generating opportunities and living
conditions for these people. In this context, the project is being
designed to ensure compliance with the Bank OP 4.20. However, the project
activities will need to be specifically adapted to the cultural uniqueness
of indigenous communities living within the project microcatchments. In
that light and based on the information gathered during the project
preparation process, including workshops with relevant stakeholders and
the social assessment study, a draft Indigenous Peoples Strategy has been
prepared and submitted by the borrower (see para. 4 below).
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
No cumulative or long term adverse impacts are foreseen.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
No cumulative or long term adverse impacts are foreseen
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not required.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental Assessment
Mainstreaming of EA procedures. Mitigation measures will be integrated
into the screening, evaluation, approval and monitoring procedures for
sub-projects submitted to the Rural Development Fund. Requirements will be
included in the Project Operational Manual. Proposals would be classified
as Category 1 if no adverse impacts are foreseen and hence no mitigation
measures are necessary, Category 2 if low impacts are anticipated and
Category 3 if they are likely to have moderate or significant
environmental impacts. For Category 2 sub-projects, environmental issues
and related mitigation measures would require detailed description. These
would be incorporated into the project design before the sub-project could
be submitted to the municipal deliberative body for approval. Category 3
sub-projects would require an environmental assessment study and
mitigation proposals to be included in the submission to municipal bodies.
An Environmental License could also be required from the State
- 5 -



Environmental Management Foundation (FATMA) for Category 3 sub-projects,
such as those proposing the implementation of small agro-industries or
aquaculture systems. A list of 25 illustrative types of sub-projects is
categorised according to this scheme in the borrower's draft EA.
Responsibility for EA and institutional arrangements. Proposed
sub-projects would be categorised by the extension "facilitators" who
support Microcatchment Associations. Facilitators would advise municipal
PMU offices accordingly; these municipal PMU staff would be accountable
for final environmental review before submitting proposals to municipal
deliberative bodies.
Strengthening EA capacity. All 440 microcatchment facilitators, PMU staff
and key members of municipal administrations and other rural
intermediaries would receive extensive training in environmental issues
and procedures under the project's training component. Environmental
requirements and procedures for sub-projects financed by the Rural
Development Fund or from other sources would also be widely publicised
among the target group and members of deliberative bodies at municipal,
regional and State levels.
Indigenous Peoples (IP)
The Government fully recognizes a) the critical social conditions the
indigenous groups living within the State; b) that the development process
must foster full respect for the dignity, human rights and cultural
uniqueness of indigenous peoples living in the State; d) the significance
of the customary use of natural resources by these groups and c) the need
for long-term sustainable management of their land, as well as the need to
support their transition to more sustainable livelihoods. In this context,
representatives from the relevant stakeholders (National Indian
Foundation/FUNAI, Conselho Indigenista Missionario/CIMI, the Ethnology
Unit of the Federal University of Santa Catarina, and University of
Blumenau) participated actively in the discussions held during the project
preparation workshops and meetings, and provided substantive inputs for
project design, as well as to the preparation and revision of the draft
Indigenous Peoples Strategy, submitted by the borrower in November 30,
2001.
Targeting of project municipalities and microcatchments would be based on
the application of specific criteria that combine social and environmental
indicators and the concentration of indigenous people. In addition, the
project would support technical assistance and investments proposed by
indigenous groups living in the project microcatchments, to implement more
sustainable land management and to provide improvements to
income-generating opportunities and living conditions of these groups. To
ensure that they receive culturally-compatible social and economic
benefits, and participate in project interventions, project extensionists
assisting indigenous people would receive additional training to qualify
for work designed specifically for the indigenous peoples. Moreover, the
project would support effective participation of indigenous groups in
project management at the decision-making levels, through their
representation in the four levels of project decision-making or approval,
stretching from the Microcatchment Association through municipal, regional
and up to State levels: at every level indigenous peoples would be
included among the group of beneficiaries that would comprise the majority
on decision-making bodies. In the aforementioned draft Indigenous Peoples
Strategy, particular attention is given to ensure i) how Indigenous People
will participate and be involved in project implementation, and ii) how
- 6 -



more specific action plans will be formulated during implementation. The
borrower will submit a revised IP Strategy by January 18, 2002,
incorporating comments from the representatives of indigenous groups and
from the Bank specialist familiar with the region (additional
consultation and participation is being carried out by the borrower,
involving the with specific indigenous groups within the State; this
consultation is expected to be made before appraisal).
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The rural poor who would
be the project's primary beneficiaries are marginal farmers or other rural
dwellers with net on-farm income below two nationally-defined monthly
minimum wages, as well as most of the rural ethnic minorities (i.e.,
indigenous people and mestizos). Secondary beneficiaries, classified as in
economic transition, are those with net on-farm income between two and
three minimum wages. To reach this target group the project would
supplement the participatory approaches of LM II, which effectively
promoted improved land management but did not secure the commitment of
poorer farmers and soon weakened once that project ended, with new
elements. The main thrust of the changes would be to move from a
consultative mode to one in which the target group would be empowered to
drive the development process based on its own needs and demands. Thus the
beneficiaries or their representatives would comprise more than 50t of the
membership of the four types of "deliberative" bodies (see PCD Annex 12),
that are charged with deciding project actions at microcatchment,
municipal, regional of State levels. Both training and implementation
support for beneficiary stakeholders would emphasise the mechanisms,
entitlements, obligations and skills implicit in fully participatory
development. Project operational procedures and the rules of the Rural
Investment Fund would be shaped to require a participatory mode of
operation as a pre-condition for access to benefits. The training of
project support staff would prepare and motivate them to work in the
participatory mode.
Other key stakeholders. Other key stakeholders in the project would
include organisations within the State and municipal governments; the
"deliberative" bodies at all four levels of decision-making (i.e.,
microcatchment, municipal, regional and state levels); intermediary NGOs
such as those concerned with ethnic, poverty, gender or environmental
issues; rural workers' unions; co-operatives; commercial firms involved in
the meat, dairy, , and organisations such as universities and
special-interest lobbying groups. Many such stakeholders have been
involved in project design during the prolonged consultation process and
have been heard or informed on issues of importance to them. Topics of
this dialogue are recorded in project files. Dialogue has covered
targeting needs, beneficiary representation mechanisms for
decision-making, requirements for technical assistance, sustainability,
and needs for a holistic approach and social control of the project
agenda. Mechanisms to maintain this dialogue during project implementation
and profit from the inputs of private or voluntary sector organisations
with contributions to make, as well as to recruit new stakeholders along
the way, now need attention. A workshop is planned to review and if
necessary revise a plan to include ethnic minorities in the project that
-7 -



was originally made in 1998.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              11/12/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure          12/20/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop 12/20/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      11/30/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 12/20/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   12/20/2001
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Graciela Lituma 12/4/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Katia Medeiros   12/4/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Judith M. Lisansky/Person/World Bank     12/4/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         12/4/01
Sector Manager/Director:         John Redwood     12/4/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 8 -



Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 11, 2002\I043869.txt
January 7, 2002 10:53 AM
-9-



