Report No. PID10815
Project Name                     Brazil- Natural Resources Management ...
and Poverty Reduction (Microbacias-2)
Project- Santa Catarina
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Natural Resources
Management
Project ID                       BRPE43869
Borrower                         State Government of Santa Catarina
Implementing Agency
State Secretariat for Rural Development
and Agriculture (SDA) Rodovia Admar Gonzaga,
1486
Itacorubi - Florian6polis, Santa Catarina
Contact Person: Dr. Otto L. Kiehn,
Under-Secretary of State
Tel.: (048) 234 5711
Fax: (048) 239-4032
Email: otto@agricultura.sc.gov.br
Environment Category             B
Date this PID prepared           4 December 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         10 January 2002
Projected Board Date             15 April 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
During the 1980s, the Brazilian southern states became
increasingly concerned with decreasing soil productivity and
increasing water pollution. The rapid expansion of the
cultivated areas during the "green revolution" of the previous
decade, involving large-scale deforestation, followed by the
application of inappropriate mechanization technologies, led to
severe soil erosion, rapid land degradation and increasing river
silting. During much of the 1990s, the Bank financed a series
of pioneer state projects that supported innovative technical
approaches for soil conservation in southern Brazil, one of
which was the Land Management II Project (LM II, Loan 3160-BR).
This project aimed to increase agricultural production and
productivity in selected areas. The project, as well as its
predecessor, the Parana Land Management I Project (Loan 3018-
BR), was highly successful in expanding the adoption of improved
practices and in so doing increased productivity of staple crops
and reduced soil loss. Runoff water in streams contained less
suspended solids, coliform bacteria and pesticide residues, thus
lowering silting and water treatment costs in downstream areas
and reducing the incidence of water borne diseases and pesticide
poisoning. LM II also demonstrated the effectiveness for project
implementation of a community-based participatory approach,



using the microcatchment as the basic unit for physical
planning.
Brazil's decision to join Mercosur and macroeconomic adjustments
placed all farmers in open competition with large-scale farmers
elsewhere, negatively affecting their profitability during the
mid to late 1990s. Ex-post evaluation of the LM II project
shows that farmers who adopted improved land management
practices suffered smaller declines in income than those who did
not. Marginal and poorer farmers, who did not significantly
benefited from the project, were among the worst affected by
falling agricultural profits.
Rural incomes have declined further and faster than urban
incomes during recent economic crises. About 25% of the State's
population live in rural areas, of which   about 38 % live in
households below the poverty line.   Over 90% of the rural
population are farmers. As part of its effort to reduce rural
poverty and recognizing the strong linkages between degradation
of natural resources and rural poverty, the Government has
requested Bank support to implement a follow-up operation to the
successful LM II project.    However, the proposed project will
be especially targeted to attend the poorer rural population.
2. Project Objectives
The project objective is to reduce rural poverty in the State of
Santa Catarina, while improving the management of natural
resources. Poor rural families' incomes and livelihoods would be
improved by: (i) support for Government efforts to integrate
environmental and social sustainability into development and
poverty reduction strategies; (ii) enhanced local governance and
community participation in decision-making; (iii) reversed land
degradation and better protection of the State's natural
resources; and (iv) improvements to income-generating
opportunities and living conditions for the rural poor.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed operation is a follow-up to the Land Management II
Project. Evaluation by both the Bank and national stakeholders
has confirmed that this project, together with its sister
operations in neighboring states (Parana, where the first Land
Management I Project was implemented, and currently Sao Paulo),
has successfully introduced an effective model for land
management and soil conservation in areas where the use of
inappropriate technology and other factors are leading to rapid
natural resource degradation. In Santa Catarina, the new Project
would consolidate the advances made by Land Management II, and
both safeguard and expand its environmental gains, but would
incorporate and further extending subsequent progress achieved
by the State Agricultural Research and Rural Extension
Enterprise (EPAGRI) in targeting and outreaching the rural poor.
The planning and implementation unit would continue to be the
microcatchment, capitalizing on existing organizations at the
-2 -



local level. Needs of the poorest small-holder farmers and
rural laborers that were not targeted under LM II would be given
special attention, particularly finance to improve their housing
and sanitation, and to create alternative sources of income,
including the creation of new off-farm employment opportunities.
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of March 6, 2000
flags poverty and inequality as the most important medium to
long-term challenges for Brazil. The CAS Progress Report of May
1, 2001 notes improving prospects for poverty reduction due to
successful continuation of fiscal reforms, renewed economic
growth and increased Government efforts to improve targeted
social policies. To achieve strong, sustainable poverty
reduction impacts, the CAS further recommends well targeted
poverty programs to enhance the human and physical capital of
the poor, to improve social conditions and allow beneficiaries
to make better use of economic opportunities, couple with safety
nets to protect from economic shocks and natural disasters. To
maintain progress, decentralized approaches are advocated, under
which funding and implementation responsibilities would be
entrusted to states, municipalities and communities. More
support to small-scale farmers, education and health are among
recommendations for improvement. Environmental policies should
be such as to underpin and sustain poverty alleviation.
The proposed project would be fully consistent with these
strategic recommendations. It would build on the achievements
of the earlier LM II in promoting more sustainable farming
systems and improved management of natural resources, but with
increased emphasis on facilitating change among small and
marginal farmers and thereby alleviating poverty. The
participatory development approach of LM II, involving local
stakeholder groups and state/municipal units of government,
would be strengthened and targeting of the rural poor would be
sharpened. Additional measures would be added to address
specific welfare and financial constraints facing this target
group, including rural employment creation and a system of
matching grants. Steps would be taken to address over-arching
environmental threats to the sustainability of benefits.
4. Project Description
The proposed project would be implemented over six years and
would have four components. Its goal would be to relieve poverty
and improve living conditions among small and marginal farmers,
rural laborers and indigenous people in the State of Santa
Catarina.
The project would be implemented in about half of the 1,683
microcatchments into which the State is divided, covering an
area of approximately 3.6 million hectares. Although the
target group will be the poorest segments of the population
living in those areas (about 80,000 families including
indigenous families), the project would encourage the
participation of all members of the microcatchment in particular
-3 -



for environmental activities. The project direct beneficiaries
are estimated at approximately 105,000 families. It would have
four components:
(i) Institutional Development and Organization (US$ 25.4
million; 23.9w of base cost): An extensive training sub-
component would finance preparation of both implementers and
beneficiaries for behavioral changes and new modes of operation
that are implicit in the new technical strategy. A sub-component
for environmental education would boost public awareness of, and
commitment to, solving environmental problems in general,
reaching the target population plus other stakeholders. A rural
extension sub-component support rural extension and technical
assistance to individuals and communities. It would have as its
main objective the promotion of the project among the rural poor
by providing information, motivating decision-making bodies,
assisting group formation, assisting beneficiaries in preparing
microcatchment and farm plans and assembling the community
demands for social as well as technical and financial support.
An adaptive and social research sub-component would respond to
specific technology adaptation and information needs arising
from demand-led participatory development programs. A technical
assistance for structural adjustment sub-component would finance
special studies and consultancies to assist the State in its
structural reform efforts.
(ii) Rural Investment (US$ 68.9 million; 64.9 W of base cost): A
Rural Development Fund (FDR) would be the instrument to induce
the adoption of the project strategy within the benefited
microcatchment. It contemplates three categories of grants: (i)
those for home improvements such as piped water, sanitation or
waste disposal as well as minor structural improvements to
housing (available only to poorer farmers and landless laborers)
residing in the microcatchment); (ii) those used for
conservation and environmental purposes such as reforestation,
protection of water sources or schemes to increase biodiversity;
and (iii) those for income generation, whether through
improvements to production systems, value-added schemes or job
creation. Use of grants would be demand-led, and a consequence
of the microcatchment development plans and individual plans.
(iii) Environmental Management (US$ 4.1 million; 3.8w of base
cost): A sub-component for watershed management would expand the
incipient State efforts of integrating environmental and river
basin management policies and laws. It would pilot the
preparation and implementation of three river basin sub-
catchment plans, using project microcatchment plans as the
building blocks. A sub-component to create ecological corridors
and protected areas would oversee preparation of the regulations
and its dissemination and the application of the newly enacted
State PA System law and the soon to be enacted "Lei do ICMS
Ecol6gico" to which Santa Catarina is committed. This would
foster the creation of public and private PAs to be able to
promote and develop the ecological corridors. One existing State
Park (Tabuleiro) would be consolidated. Promotion of new public
- 4 -



and private PAs, as well as consolidation of two ecological
corridors, would begin.
(iv) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 7.8
million; 7.39 of base cost): A sub-component for project
management would set up and operate the Project management Unit
(PMU) at state level and 14 subsidiary units at regional levels.
Regional units would act as executive arms for the stakeholder
bodies responsible for participative planning, decision-making
and oversight of implementation at state, regional, municipal
and microcatchment levels. Project monitoring, evaluation and
the distribution of findings would be supported under a sub-
component for monitoring and evaluation. A sub-component for
community organization would provide separate resources for the
creation and operation of all categories of stakeholder bodies.
5. Financing
The Project cost is tentatively estimated at US$ 106.1 million.
The Bank's share will be some 59-609. Counterpart funding will
come mostly from the State Government, but also include
contributions of municipalities and beneficiaries.
6.  Project Implementation
Project implementation would be the responsibility of the Santa
Catarina SDA. In fulfilling these executive responsibilities,
SDA would be supported principally by the State Secretariat for
Urban Development and Environment (SDM), the State Environmental
Foundation (FATMA), which is affiliated to SDM, and EPAGRI,
affiliated to SDA.
The project management structure would be decentralized with
executive bodies at the state, regional, municipal and
microcatchment levels. It has been designed to maximize
participation and ownership of decision-making by the
beneficiaries, combined with transfer of these responsibilities
and project accountability to the lowest administrative levels.
It would create a pyramid of inter-linked "deliberative" bodies
in parallel to the executive ones, stretching from state level
through 14 operating regions and its 293 municipalities, the 880
project microcatchments and eventually down to the community
level.  At least 50% of the participants in project deliberative
bodies would be members of the target group or their
representatives. Other members would span remaining
stakeholders in the participatory process - NGOs, labor unions,
co-operatives, private firms, government organizations and local
political local figures.
Deliberative responsibilities. On a scale appropriate to their
levels in the pyramid (state, regional and municipal),
deliberative bodies would set project implementation policy and
priorities, approve annual operational plans and fund
allocations, resolve conflicts between stakeholders, approve
sub-projects/grants, monitor and evaluate progress and approve
- 5-



implementation reports. They would also be responsible to
oversee the focus of the project on poverty alleviation through
the correct application of the selection criteria at municipal
and microcatchment levels. Proper focus at farm level would be
monitored through the adequate application of the selection
criteria of the Rural FDR.
Executive responsibilities. An executive chain of mainly
government, mostly seconded, staff would also be formed. Under
the overall responsibility of SDA the executive chain would
service and support deliberative bodies in fulfilling their
responsibilities and in the implementation of the actions they
demand. The executive structure would echo the deliberative
pyramid, with small executive units at state, regional and
municipal levels. At the lowest level, microcatchments would be
assisted to hire their own external support agents, but these
would still be trained and backstopped by executive units. The
executive chain would also be responsible for loan
administration, project accounting, auditing and meeting the
information and reporting requirements of the Bank. A PMU would
be set up under the authority of the SDA to oversee, co-
ordinate, administer and monitor the project.
7. Project Sustainability
The project would improve beneficiaries income through greater
productivity of their existing systems, diversification of
enterprises and job creation. Together, these would increase
returns to their family labor and the limited cash resources
they can afford to commit to agriculture. These gains would,
for the most part, be relatively soon achieved. Evidence from
LM II suggests that when these conditions are met, farmers
continue to apply the improved technologies on which gains are
based -- i.e., the economic gains and the external benefits that
derive from land management changes are sustained. The
empowerment of the target group, their increased social capital
and much greater influence over access to and use of development
support, would reinforce economic and environmental
sustainability.
Institutional sustainability is most often threatened by
weakening government commitment to projects, leading to
irregular counterpart funding, mistargeting of resources,
political interference and removal of key staff. All evidence
from LM II as well as the State Government's vigorous
participatory preparation, gainsay such a scenario.
Participatory procedures are already being quite widely piloted,
beneficiaries are involved and awaiting expansion of efforts and
political will remains strong. Risks that the project will be
affected by unsustainability of Government or other stakeholder
institutions are therefore considered low.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country and
sector
-6-



Experience from all of the above and other Bank-funded projects
which support natural resources management in the context of
rural development, in particular the experience gained in Santa
Catarina with the highly successful LM II Project. The design
responds to the following lessons, which are fully consistent
with the LM II and its predecessor, the Parand Land Management I
projects.
Civil society participation is crucial for any program to
introduce more sustainable natural resource management
practices. The project would involve stakeholders to a greater
extent than LM II in priority setting, design and
implementation. Close voluntary associations would be created
between individual beneficiaries and their communities on the
ground, between these beneficiary associations and government
support organizations, and the private and voluntary sectors
would be incorporated into these stakeholder coalitions to bring
complementary skills and resources.
Clear targeting mechanisms. Verifiable and objective criteria
that reflects the center and dual objective of the project--
poverty alleviation and environmental considerations-- can
foster transparency, minimize political interference in project
resource allocation and ensure that project resources reach the
poorest areas. The project would have poverty alleviation as
the most important criterion for project intervention without
however recognizing the close interdependency between depletion
of natural resources and poverty; environmental consideration
will also constitute an important element in the selection
criteria.
Responsibilities for implementation should be entrusted to the
lowest possible levels to maximize the commitments to success of
individual and organizational stakeholders. The stratified
deliberative bodies proposed, reaching down to the level of the
microcatchment and individual communities, would further entrust
decision-making and responsibilities for implementation.
Extensive orientation and practical training are needed, both to
change the perception of stakeholders towards the concepts and
practices of participation and to build their awareness of new
approaches and techniques for sustainable resource management.
A substantial orientation, training and public awareness
campaign would be the first step in project implementation.
The microcatchment and its residents, considered together,
constitute the most convenient basic unit for planning programs.
This feature would be retained from previous projects, with
strengthened mechanisms to ensure involvement of the poorest
residents in the microcatchment.
Farmers will only adopt improved practices for land management
within their microcatchments if these changes bring early
financial benefits. Technical extensionists would focus their
advice on profitable technologies; visits by farmers to see
profitable farming practices in application by others would be
an important part of field extension programs; farmer
participatory R&D programs would ensure that profitability would
be prominent among evaluation criteria in the search for
improved technologies.
-7-



Government commitment - to provide the finance, human resources
and a facilitating legal framework - is crucial to success.
Santa Catarina has been preparing the project for four years,
committing its own resources and within these limits continuing
to improve implementation strategies and procedures. Successive
State administrations as well as the mayors of many
municipalities remain committed to the project approach. Legal
steps to allow the State to accept Bank funds are nearing
completion.
Governments should be prepared to share the costs of changed
land management with land users, especially where change brings
substantial off-farm public goods benefits or farmers' financial
benefits would be long deferred. The FDR has been designed in
response to this lesson.
Government commitment needs to be complemented by skilled
project management and constructive supervision support from the
Bank; creative and flexible handling of implementation problems
are often necessary. On the Government side, many of the key
individuals who successfully implemented LM II are involved in
design of the present project and are expected to take leading
roles in its implementation.
9. Poverty Category
The Project is part of the Bank's Program of Targeted
Interventions. It will be addressed principally to the most
vulnerable groups of the rural population, the majority of whom
earn less than one minimum wage per month and suffer from
inadequate access to basic infrastructure and services.
10. Environmental Aspects
The project is proposed for a Category B designation. The
Project is expected to have the same beneficial environmental
impact as Land Management II. Despite the largely positive or
neutral project impacts anticipated, submission of an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was considered prudent for
conformity with Bank and Government policies. The draft EMP was
submitted by the borrower in October 2001. Project activities
having potential environmental impacts would mostly be those
financed by the FDR. Impacts of the majority would be positive
or neutral - e.g., from improved soil and water conservation,
replanting of riparian forests, water source protection,
domestic sanitation and improved handling of pig waste. Impacts
of any mis-directed support for agricultural diversification,
agro-processing, aquaculture or rehabilitation of small rural
roads could however be negative. Strict environmental
evaluation procedures and environmental licensing mechanisms, as
well as proposing mitigation measures, are built in the
management of the Fund.
Mitigation measures will be integrated into the screening,
evaluation, approval and monitoring procedures for sub-projects
submitted to the FDR. Requirements will be included in the
Project Operational Manual. Proposals would be classified as
- 8 -



Category 1 if no adverse impacts are foreseen and hence no
mitigation measures are necessary, Category 2 if low impacts are
anticipated and Category 3 if they are likely to have moderate
or significant environmental impacts. For Category 2 sub-
projects, environmental issues and related mitigation measures
would require detailed description. These would be incorporated
into the project design before the sub-project could be
submitted to the municipal deliberative body for approval.
Category 3 sub-projects would require an environmental
assessment study and mitigation proposals to be included in the
submission to municipal bodies. An Environmental License could
also be required from FATMA for Category 3 sub-projects, such as
those proposing the implementation of small agro-industries or
aquaculture systems.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Graciela Lituma, LCSER
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-1892
Fax:   (202) 522-3132
12. For information on other project related documents,
contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web:  http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain elements may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 14,2001
-9-



