Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4660-BR
Loan Agreement
(Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Reduction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
Dated May 10, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4660-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 10, 2002 between the  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
Page  2
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF SANTA 
CATARINA (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank (the 
Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth:
(a)
“Approved POA” means each annual operating plan referred to in Section 3.04 
(b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means: (i) a farmer; (ii) a  rural laborer; (iii) a Community 
Association or cooperative composed of farmers and/or rural laborers; (iv) an Indigenous Peoples 
Community (all of which (i) through (iv) reside in a Microcatchment); or (v) a Microcatchment 
Association (all of which (i) through (v)  meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual as 
beneficiaries of Rural Subprojects under Part B. 1. of the Project);
(c)
“Community Association” means a civil association formed by members of a 
community (
associação civil
)
duly established in the Borrower's territory in accordance with the 
Guarantor's laws;
(d)
“Development Plan” means collectively the Farmer Plans, the Indigenous 
Page  3
Peoples’ Plan and the Microcatchment Plan;
(e)
“EPAGRI” means 
Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuária e Extensão Rural de 
Santa Catarina S.A., 
the Borrower’s Agricultural Research and Rural Extension Corporation;
(f)
“EPAGRI Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of 
this Agreement; 
(g)
“Executing Agencies” means collectively EPAGRI, FATMA and ICEPA;
(h)
“Farmer Plan” means the plan for the sustainable development of a farmer’s 
farm, for implementation together with a Rural Subproject;
(i)
“FATMA” means 
Fundação do Meio Ambiente, 
the Borrower’s Environmental 
Management Foundation established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 662, of July 30, 
1975;
(j)
“FATMA   Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement; 
(k)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
“FUNAI” means 
Fundação Nacional do Índio, 
the Guarantor’s Indian 
Foundation established pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law No. 5371, of December 5, 1967;
(m)
“FUNAI Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (e) of this Agreement; 
(n)
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary providing for a Rural Subproject Grant;
(o)
“ICEPA” means 
Instituto de Planejamento e Economia Agrícola de Santa 
Catarina, 
the Borrower’s Agricultural Planning Institute;
(p)
“ICEPA Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
“Indigenous Peoples” means the Kaingang, Xokleng, and Guarani peoples 
residing in the Municipalities;
(r)
“Indigenous Peoples Community” means a community formed by Indigenous 
Page  4
Peoples duly established in the Borrower’s territory in accordance with the Guarantor’s laws;
(s)
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” means the plan for the sustainable development of an 
Indigenous Peoples Community, for implementation together with a Rural Subproject;
(t)
“Microcatchment” means  
microbacia hidrográfica
,
a
watershed or area, with a 
population of about 120 families, bound peripherically by a water parting, and draining 
ultimately in a particular watercourse which meets environmental and social criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual;
(u)
“Microcatchment Association” means an association formed by farmers, rural 
workers, Community Associations, and/or Indigenous Peoples Communities duly established in 
the Borrower’s territory in accordance with the Guarantor’s laws for the purpose of planning, 
preparing (in agreement with its members), and implementing, one or more Rural Subprojects, 
which Microcatchment Association meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for 
participating in the Project;
(v)
“Microcatchment Plan” means the plan for the management of a 
Microcatchment, for implementation together with a Rural Subproject;
(w)
 “MIS” means the Project monitoring and information system, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to provide physical, financial and accounting information on the Project implementation, 
including, 
inter alia
, information on the Performance Indicators;
(x)
“Model Forms” means the model grant agreements set forth in the Operational 
Manual;
(y)
“Municipal Council” means a municipal council referred to in Section 3.01 (c) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(z)
“Municipality” means any municipality which meets the socioeconomic and 
environmental eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(aa)
“Municipality Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) (iii) of this Agreement;
(bb)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project referred 
to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower;
(cc)
“Performance Indicators” means the set of performance indicators, to be used for 
purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in a letter from the Borrower to the 
Bank, dated March 26, 2002, as such indicators may be revised with the agreement of the Bank;
Page  5
(dd)
“PMU” means the unit established within SDA, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 3954, of January 30, 2002, for the purposes of coordinating the carrying out of the 
Project;
(ee)
“PMU Institutional Strengthening Action Plan” means the plan for the 
strengthening of PMU’s financial management and procurement capacity, set forth in a letter 
from the Borrower to the Bank, dated March 26, 2002;
(ff)
“Rural Subproject” means a subproject consisting of one or more of the activities 
specified in Part B.1 of the Project, which subproject is selected, approved and implemented in 
accordance with the requirements of the Operational Manual;
(gg)
“Rural Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for the financing of a Rural Subproject 
pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual;
(hh)
“SDA” means 
Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Rural e da Agricultura
,
the Borrower’s Rural Development and Agriculture Secretariat;
(ii)
“SDM” means 
Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio 
Ambiente, 
the Borrower’s Secretariat for Urban Development and the Environment;
(jj)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(kk)
“State and Regional Councils” means the councils established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Resolution No. 001/2002/SDA/CDRURAL, of February 18, 2002.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty-two million eight hundred 
thousand dollars ($62,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect 
of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
Page  6
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value the first 
day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
Page  7
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through 
SDA, with the assistance of:
(i)
EPAGRI in respect of Parts A. 1 through A. 3 of the Project, and 
partially in respect of Part A. 4 of the Project;
(ii)
SDM in respect of Part C.1 of the Project;
(iii)
the Municipalities in respect of Parts A.1 through A.3 and C of the 
Project;
(iv)
FATMA in respect of Part C.2 of the Project; and
(v)
ICEPA in respect of Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, administrative, 
agricultural, environmental, financial and engineering practices, and in accordance with the 
Page  8
Operational Manual and the Approved POAs, and shall provide or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with: 
(i)
EPAGRI in respect of Parts A.1 through A.3 of the Project, and partially 
in respect of Part A. 4 of the Project;
(ii)
FATMA in respect of Part C.2 of the Project; and
(iii)
ICEPA in respect of Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project,
all under terms satisfactory to the Bank  to set forth, 
inter alia
,
the respective responsibilities of  
the Executing Agencies in the implementation of their respective Parts of the Project; and
(c)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain during Project implementation:
(A)
the PMU with responsibilities, structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(B)
State and Regional Councils with responsibilities and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)
cause the Municipalities, under the terms of the Municipality 
Agreements to establish and thereafter maintain during Project 
implementation, municipal councils with responsibilities and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii)
enter into an agreement with each Municipality under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth, 
inter alia
,
the 
Municipality’s obligation to operate the councils referred to in (ii) 
above, to assist in the promotion and dissemination of the Project, and to 
participate in the activities referred to in Parts A.1 through A.4, C and 
D.2 and D.3 of the Project within its jurisdictions.
(d)
The Borrower shall, through SDA, enter into a Grant Agreement, with each 
Beneficiary substantially in accordance with the terms of the Model Forms.
(e)
The Borrower shall, not later than one year after the Effective Date, enter into an 
agreement with FUNAI, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth, 
inter 
alia
,
FUNAI’s undertaking to, as and when needed, facilitate and expedite the issuance of 
Page  9
juridical status to Indigenous Peoples not yet established as Indigenous Peoples Communities.
(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
EPAGRI Agreement, the FATMA Agreement, the ICEPA Agreement, each of the Municipality 
Agreements and the Grant Agreements, and the FUNAI Cooperation Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the EPAGRI Agreement, the FATMA Agreement, the ICEPA 
Agreement, any of the Municipality Agreements or the Grant Agreements or the FUNAI 
Cooperation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and every year thereafter during the 
period of Project implementation, reports integrating the results of the evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of such reports and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank shortly after such reports’ preparation, the reports referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and taking into account the Bank's views on 
the matter.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by September 30 of each year during Project implementation, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank the proposed annual operating plan and budget, satisfactory to the Bank, 
detailing the Project activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding year and the 
respective sources of funding therefor; and
(b)
not later than 30 days after the enactment of the Borrower's budgetary law, 
furnish to the Bank the portion of the budget allocated to the Project for each year in question, 
and the resulting respective annual operating plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
Page  10
such year (Approved POA).
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a)
the organizational structure of the Project and the procedures for the carrying 
out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project (including the procurement and financial 
requirements thereof);
(b)
criteria for selection of Municipalities, Microcatchments, and Beneficiaries;
(c)
requirements for the selection, approval and implementation of Rural 
Subprojects, including: 
(i)
the environmental screening, evaluation, approval and monitoring 
procedures; and
(ii)
the definition of responsibility for the preparation of environmental 
assessments of  Subprojects, and respective institutional arrangements; 
(d)
(i)
the strategy to address the concerns of Indigenous Peoples, to ensure 
their participation and involvement in Project implementation, and to 
ensure their access to the various Project activities; and
(ii)
the requirement for preparation and implementation of an Indigenous 
Peoples Plan with respect of each Rural Subproject to benefit an 
Indigenous Peoples Community; and
(e)
the model draft agreement to set forth the Beneficiary’s obligation to, 
inter alia
,
contribute to the financing of the Rural Subproject, and carry out the Development Plan and 
Rural Subproject.
In the case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of the 
Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than one year after the Effective Date, 
furnish to the Bank for its comments the results of the research activities referred to in Part A. 5 
of the Project.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall carry out the PMU Institutional Strengthening Plan in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
Page  11
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
Page  12
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the Bank a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such 
first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
Page  13
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual; and
(b)
the EPAGRI Agreement, the FATMA Agreement, and the ICEPA Agreement 
have been executed on behalf of the respective parties thereto.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan has been duly registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank; and
(b)
that the EPAGRI Agreement, the FATMA Agreement, and the ICEPA 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by EPAGRI, FATMA, and ICEPA, 
respectively, and are legally binding upon such agencies in accordance with their respective 
terms.
Section 5.03. The date August 8, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Governor of  the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Governo do Estado de Santa Catarina
Page  14
Rua José da Costa Moellmann, 193
88020-170 Florianópolis, Santa Catarina
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-48) 221-3167
Page  15
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, DF
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61)225 4022
Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento
  Rural e da Agricultura
Rodovia Admar Gonzaga, 1486
Itacorubi, C.P. 436
88034-001 Florianópolis, Santa Catarina
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-48) 239-4093 or 239-4001
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda
Rua Tenente Silveira, 60
88010-300 Florianópolis, Santa Catarina
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-48) 216-7536
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Florianópolis, SC, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinod Thomas
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
By /s/ Esperidião Amin Helou Filho
Authorized Representative
Page  16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Works (other than
160,000
73%
under Rural Subproject
Grants)
(2)  Goods (other than
2,700,000
65%
under Rural Subproject
Grants)
(3) Rural Subproject
46,900,000
75% of the expenditures 
Grants
for goods, works,
services and operating
costs for a Rural
Subproject financed by
a Rural
Subproject
Grant
(4) (a)
Consultants’ services
10,400,000)
56% 
and training for Parts
)
A, C and D of the
)
Project
)
)
(b) Audits
100,000)
(5) Fee
628,000
Amount due 
under Section 
2.04 of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated 1,912,000
TOTAL
62,800,000
Page  17
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Training” means expenditures incurred in connection with the 
provision of training (including workshops and seminars) under the Project, including rental of 
equipment and facilities and reasonable travel cost and per-diem of the trainees; and
(b)
“Operating Costs” means the initial working capital costs of a Rural Subproject 
eligible for financing in accordance with the Operational Manual.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $3,000,000, may be made on 
account of payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case prior to January 18, 2002; and
(b)
payments under a Rural Subproject Grant unless the respective Grant Agreement 
shall have been entered into between the parties thereto.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower:
(a)
under contracts for goods costing less than the equivalent of $350,000 per 
contract and for works costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract; 
(b)
for services of individual consultants under contracts under $50,000 equivalent 
per contract;
(c)
for services of consulting firms under contracts under $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; 
(d)
under Rural Subproject Grants; and
(e)
for training.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to integrate environmental and social sustainability 
into development and poverty reduction strategies of the Borrower; (b) to enhance local 
governance and community participation in decision-making; (c) to reverse land degradation and 
Page  18
better ensure protection of the Borrower’s natural resources; and (d) to improve the 
income-generating opportunities and living conditions for the rural poor.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Institutional Development and Organization
1.
Training
(a)
Training of Beneficiaries, in the principles and practice of rural diagnosis, group 
formation and operation, participatory planning, and stakeholder monitoring, complemented with 
technical subjects including, 
inter alia:
(i)
techniques for sustainable land management;
(ii)
product diversification, processing, and/or marketing;
(iii)
sustainable improvements to social infrastructure or habitation; and
(iv)
environmental protection. 
(b)
Carrying out of seminars to review progress of Project implementation, and 
learning visits to projects, in the Guarantor’s territory, with similar approaches to the Project.
(c)
Preparation of revisions to the Operational Manual, and publication of a manual 
on good practices in road rehabilitation to guide the training of municipal road workers on road 
maintenance rehabilitation works carried out in the Borrower’s territory.
2.
Environmental Education
(a)
Carrying out of environmental education activities in rural schools located in or 
adjacent to Microcatchments to facilitate and promote awareness, appreciation, knowledge, and 
stewardship of natural resources in teachers and students, including 
inter alia:
(i)
development and dissemination of classroom-ready teaching aids and 
materials;
(ii)
presentation of awards to schools that improve their environmental 
education efforts; 
(iii)
organization of  workshops with school staff, seminars with school 
Page  19
parents, and field trips and outdoor workshops for primary and high 
school students; 
(iv)
preparation and implementation of environmental education projects in 
selected schools; and 
(v)
school group formation to enhance the abilities of teachers and students 
in problem solving, leadership, decision making, and cooperation.
(b)
Carrying out of environmental education activities for Community Associations, 
Indigenous Peoples Communities, and Microcatchment Associations, including, 
inter alia: 
(i)
organization of courses and workshops for farming families, members of 
environmental working groups, local leaders, Indigenous Peoples and 
technicians;
(ii)
establishment of partnerships with governmental and nongovernmental 
institutions to undertake joint environmental education activities; and
(iii)
preparation of environmental education materials.
3.
Rural Extension
Provision of extension services to, 
inter alia
:
(a)
facilitate the formation of Community Associations, Indigenous Peoples 
Communities, Microcatchment Associations and other groups and associations, to assist in the 
preparation of Development Plans and Rural Subprojects;
(b)
collect community demands for social as well as technical and financial support 
arising from those plans; and
(c)
assist with implementation of Development Plans at the community level.
4.
Adaptive and Social Research
Carrying out of research activities for, 
inter alia
:
(a)
preparation of the microcatchment maps necessary for Microcatchment Plans; 
(b)
carrying out of municipal agricultural censuses; 
Page  20
(c)
(i) review of farming and environmental issues related to the pursuit of 
profitable, sustainable, and environmentally acceptable activities; (ii) identification of constraints 
affecting the Beneficiaries, and of individual and collective income-enhancing activities that 
could be implemented by the Beneficiaries; and (iii) adaptive trials, demonstrations, meetings, 
and publications to disseminate research results among Beneficiaries; and
(d)
monitoring of technology change by producers, and the resulting economic and 
environmental impacts.
5.
Technical Assistance in Support of the State Structural Reform
Provision of technical assistance to assist the Borrower in the evaluation of: 
(a)
its poverty reduction programs and policies, including its micro- and rural credit 
and social inclusion schemes; and 
(b)
alternatives to reform its water (including watershed management) and energy 
public services including, in particular, a review of  the legal and institutional framework 
governing the Borrower’s water resources sector and its management system,  a review of the 
structure and regulatory framework for the Borrower’s water supply and sanitation sector, and 
the  design of a subsidy program aimed at increasing delivery of water supply and sewerage 
services to the poor. 
Part B
: Rural Investments
1.
Financing of investments  (Rural Subprojects) for Beneficiaries for, 
inter alia:
(a)
home improvements such as piped water, sanitation or waste disposal, as well as 
minor structural improvements to housing;
(b)
control of water pollution and soil erosion, forest conservation and reforestation, 
protection of water sources or schemes, and other conservation and environmental activities to 
increase biodiversity; and
(c)
income generation, whether through improvements to production systems, 
value-added schemes or job creation.
Part C
: Environmental Management
1.
Preparation and implementation of  management plans for the Timbó, Chapecó Upper 
River Valley, and Jacutinga watersheds, integrating two or more Microcatchment Plans and, 
including, 
inter alia,
 technical assistance, workshops and training for: 
Page  21
(a)
strengthening or creating watershed committees; 
(b)
carrying out socioeconomic, environmental and stakeholder assessments; 
(c)
developing detailed assessments and characterization of aquatic resources, 
problems, their causes and sources (including land-based activities); 
(d)
establishment of water resources and environmental objectives consistent with 
the Guarantor’s and the Borrower’s legislation and reflecting the needs of watershed 
stakeholders; 
(e)
identification of financial and regulatory mechanisms to facilitate sustainability 
of water resources management; 
(f)
identification of indicators to monitor the implementation of watershed 
management plans; and
(g)
identification of specific implementation actions that will attain the plans’ goals, 
including the setting of milestones, assignment of responsibility, and identification of existing 
and potential sources of funding for implementation. 
2.
Ecological Corridors and Protected Areas
(a)
Design and implementation of ecological corridors for the Timbó Watershed and 
Chapecó Upper River Valley Watershed, including
, inter alia
:
(i)
studies, surveys and mapping to identify the corridors, and public 
consultations to raise conservation awareness and to involve local 
communities living inside and outside the boundaries of parks and 
reserves in the watershed;
(ii)
establishment of a coordination and participatory management structure; 
(iii)
implementation of an integrated geographical information system and 
information dissemination campaigns;
(iv)
training, through workshops and focus group meetings involving land 
owners and municipal officers, on the design of management plans for 
private and municipal protected areas; and
(v)
promotion of the implementation of Rural Subprojects for sustainable 
management of natural resources and conservation by local 
communities, in particular in private nature reserves, mandatory legal 
Page  22
reserves, and permanent preservation areas on private lands. 
(b)
Carrying out of:
(i)
a dissemination campaign to raise awareness in the public at large on the 
Borrower’s new legislation relating to economic incentives for the 
establishment of ecological corridors and protected areas; and
(ii)
workshops and technical assistance for preparation of the regulations for 
the Borrower’s protected areas legislation, and for the development of an 
inventory of existing protected areas.
(c)
Carrying out of activities for the consolidation of the Borrower’s Tabuleiro State 
Park including 
inter alia
: 
(i)
improvements of the visitors’ infrastructure, such as construction of 
interpretative trails and two thematic centers in the buffer zone, and 
equipping for these centers, and for fire control; and 
(ii)
training of community leaders, school teachers, municipal and park staff 
and other local stakeholders to promote awareness, appreciation and 
knowledge of the Tabuleiro State Park; and 
(iii)
preparation and publication of promotional materials. 
Part D
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
(a) 
Establishment and operation of the PMU.  
(b)
Carrying out of  a communications program to ensure that relevant stakeholders 
are informed about the Project's objectives, opportunities and procedures and are able to provide 
feedback and participate in the process.  
(c)
Installation and operation of MIS.
(d)
Provision of auditing services for the carrying out of the financial audits referred 
to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for monitoring, evaluation (including the carrying out 
of a baseline evaluation study, annual physical performance reviews, and a mid-term 
implementation review) and dissemination of Project results and impacts.
Page  23
3.
Financing of expenditures for the creation and/or operation of Microcatchment 
Associations, Community Associations, Indigenous Peoples Communities, Municipal Councils, 
and State and Regional Councils.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
        (Expressed in Dollars
)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2007 
through April 15, 2017
3,140,000
_____________________
*  The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Page  24
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 hereof, 
(a)
goods estimated to cost less than $ 350,000 equivalent per contract and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $860,000 equivalent may; and 
(b)
works shall,
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 
of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, and the following 
Page  25
provisions:
(i)
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, 
whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those 
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that 
the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed 
in the invitation to bid.
(ii)
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in 
Brazil.
(iii)
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (
consórcio)
 of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance 
by the Bank in each case.
(iv)
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
(v)
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more 
than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
National Shopping
Except as provided in Part C.4 hereof, goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in Part C.4 hereof, works estimated to cost less than  $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $220,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Page  26
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works costing $50,000 equivalent or less per contract under Rural 
Subprojects, and not exceeding in the aggregate $58,000,000, may be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the Operational Manual.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract to be procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B.1 of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods and for works procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first three contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Parts C.2 and C.3 hereof, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures (including small works), the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures (including small works), the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  27
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits, small engineering designs, and travel services may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training, special studies, and extension services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $1,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement except 
for those under Rural Subprojects, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
Page  28
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for services 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for services 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 
(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  29
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $3,200,000, or such 
other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equal to $1,600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $15,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
Page  30
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
Page  31
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
