                                          Document of
                                     The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                           Report No: 62794-ET




                                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                             ON A

                   PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                 OF
           AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1 PROJECT
          GLOBAL ENVIROMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND TF090543-ET


                                         June 19, 2007



                                              TO

                 FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA



                                         June 20, 2011




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group
authorization.
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASP       Africa Stockpiles Programme
ASP-P1    ASP Project 1
CESA      Country Environmental and Social Assessment
CLI       CropLife International
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
GEF       Global Environment Facility
HSE       Health, Safety and Environment
IPM       Integrated Pest Management
MDTF      Multi Donor Trust Fund
MoARD     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PMU       Project Management Unit
PSMS      Pesticide Stock Management System
TF        Trust Fund
TSU       Technical Support Unit
WWF       World Wildlife Fund




             Regional Vice President:     Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
         Regional Integration Director:   Yusupha B. Crookes
                     Country Director:    Kenichi Ohashi
                      Sector Manager:     Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
                   Task Team Leader:      Ellen J. Tynan
                                 AFRICA
            AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1 ETHIOPIA
                                 P105711
                                CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                  Page
A.  SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 3 
B.  PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 3 
C.  PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5 
                                   .
D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................... 7 
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 9 
ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ...................................................................... 12 
ANNEX 3: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE ...................................................................... 13 
                                           DATA SHEET

Restructuring Status: Draft
Restructuring Type: Level 1

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                               P105711: Africa Stockpiles Programme – Project 1
Country                                         Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Task Team Leader                                Ellen J. Tynan
Sector Manager                                  Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
Director (Regional Integration)                 Yusupha B. Crookes
Country Director                                Kenichi Ohashi
Original Board Approval Date                    June 19, 2007
Original Closing Date:                          06/30/2011
Current Closing Date                            06/30/2011
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]           12/31/2012
EA Category                                     A-Full Assessment
Revised EA Category                             N/A
EA Completion Date                              3/10/2004
Revised EA Completion Date                      N/A

2. Revised Financing Plan (US$ m)
Source                                                    Original                     Revised
GEF (through the World Bank)                                    2.62                          2.62
Ethiopia Government                                             0.42                          0.42
Belgium                                                         3.47                          3.47
Japan                                                           1.14                          1.14
Finland                                                         1.02                          1.02
Total                                                           8.67                          8.67

3. Recipient
         Organization                           Department                        Location
Federal Democratic Republic of                                          Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Ethiopia

4. Implementing Agency
          Organization                          Department                        Location
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural       Crop Protection Department     Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Development




                                                  i
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$)
Actual amount disbursed as of May 18, 2011
Total to-date: 510,000

         Fiscal Year                            Annual                             Cumulative
Through 2011                        521,549                            1,038,437
2012                                1,281,563                          2,320,000
2013                                300,000                            2,620,000
                                                       Total                            2,620,000

6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                  N
Does the scale-up of restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes,                  N
please select from the checklist below.

Safeguard Policy                                                          Last Rating      Proposed
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                                              X               X
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       X                   X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)

7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Assist the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia to eliminate inventoried publicly-held obsolete
pesticide stockpiles and associated waste, and implement measures to reduce and prevent future related
risks.

7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
 Assist the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia to dispose of and/or safeguard inventoried publicly-
held obsolete pesticide stocks and associated waste, and develop a strategy for sustainable management of
future accumulations.




                                                ii
                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER
A. SUMMARY

This Restructuring Paper requests Board approval for (i) the revision of the Project
Development Objective (PDO) and PDO Level Results Indicators, (ii) introduction of a
project-level Results Framework (RF), (iii) introduction of changes in the description of
component B (Disposal of Obsolete Pesticides) and C (Prevention of Obsolete Pesticide
Accumulation) and merger of activities under component C and D (Capacity Building),
(iv) extension of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant Closing Date; and (v)
reallocation of the GEF Trust Fund (TF) proceeds.

The PDO and PDO Level Results Indicators require revision in order to reflect a shift
from complete elimination of all inventoried publicly-held obsolete stocks and associated
waste to elimination overseas and lower-cost in-country safeguarding of the stocks in
face of higher than estimated volumes of obsolete pesticides and associated waste
resulting in a funding gap for disposal. The revised PDO and related indicators will also
reflect a shift from prevention of re-accumulation of stocks to the development of a
strategy for the sustainable management of future obsolete stocks. The original objective
was based on the assumption that demand for pesticides could be substantially reduced
through project-funded prevention activities despite evidence of increasing demand for
pesticides as a result of agricultural intensification. A project-level RF has not been
prepared for Africa Stockpile Program (ASP)-Ethiopia, (or any other ASP country
projects), when it was submitted to Board in May 2007; rather, the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) contained a program-level RF and project-specific Performance
Monitoring Indicators. Proceeds reallocations and Closing Date extension are required to
accommodate the disposal and/or safeguarding of the additional stocks found, and
finalize all remaining project activities, respectively. Activities planned under
Component D (Capacity Building) will be merged with the prevention activities under the
revised Component C due to their mutual prevention function.

B. PROJECT STATUS

The Implementation Performance rating for ASP Ethiopia is Moderately Satisfactory; it
is held back mainly by delays in signing contracts within the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development (MoARD). The PDO is rated Unsatisfactory due to the impossibility
of achieving full disposal with available funds. Following the restructuring, the PDO will
become achievable and its rating will consequently be upgraded to Satisfactory.

The following progress has been made under the project components:

Component A: Obsolete Pesticides Inventory: A detailed inventory of the Recipient's
publicly-held obsolete pesticides stocks and associated waste was carried out, and all data
were entered into a database and validated in May 2010. The database was used for risk
profiling of the stocks and the preparation of a final draft Country Environmental and
Social Assessment (CESA-2) ready for submission to the Bank.




                                            3
Component B: Disposal of Obsolete Pesticides: The Project Management Unit (PMU)
has currently obtained Bank’s clearance for the bidding document for the disposal tender
following World Bank Regional Procurement Unit’s advice. This one stop process is
expected to assist the project in meeting the timeline for disposal completion by
December 31, 2012. Following a technical review of the inventory database, five sites
have been prioritized for full disposal, totaling 250 tons of pesticides. The remaining 200
tons of inventoried obsolete pesticides will be safeguarded at lower cost. A work plan and
a budget have been developed for a rapid assessment of pesticide-contaminated soil. The
elimination of the 400 tons left-over stocks from a former FAO-managed project is
expected to be finalized in June 2011 with the funding of CropLife International (CLI),
an ASP partner. It used a CESA (CESA-1) which was prepared for this purpose during
project preparation and approved by the Bank during Negotiations in March 2007. Also
under this component, the project has commissioned a container management study; the
results are expected to provide tailor-made shredder specifications prior to launching the
procurement process via ICB. Finally, the project has hired a consultant to review the
design of a new pesticide storage warehouse to be funded by the project. An Environmental
and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) for the construction has been prepared.

The project is facing an estimated US$4.1 million funding gap for disposal of all
inventoried stocks and associated waste as a result of additional 200 tons of obsolete
pesticides and 850 tons of associated waste not budgeted during appraisal. Discussions
between the Bank and the Government in the past year have resulted in the decision to
reallocate GEF proceeds toward disposal, dispose of the highest risk stocks and only
safeguard stocks with a lower risk profile. In addition, the Bank will allocate US$500,000
from the ASP Multi-Donor Trust Fund to decrease the funding gap for the disposal and
safeguarding work.

Component C: Prevention of Obsolete Pesticide Accumulation: A Pesticide Registration
and Control Proclamation1 was approved in January 2010 by the Council of Ministers,
proclaimed by Parliament in June 2010 and published in August 2010 in a federal
newspaper. Important steps have been made to prepare a national pesticide management
strategy for adoption by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MoARD),
aiming to enhance the sustainability of MoARD’s organizational and financial provisions
to deal with obsolete pesticide and associated waste. The ASP national Non
Governmental Organization (NGO) network has been involved in various awareness
raising activities on ASP and the risks of obsolete pesticides mishandling.

Component D: Capacity Building: Training has been provided for data entry, CESA and
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) preparation and procurement. CropLife
Ethiopia provided training on pest/pesticide management and pesticide storage
management.

Component E: Project Management and Monitoring: The project is managed through a
PMU whose performance has been improving gradually since the beginning of the
project thanks to project-funded training and the provision of World Bank-funded
technical and operational support. Fiduciary requirements, including external audits and

1
    Proclamation number 674/2010.


                                            4
safeguards, are being complied with. Disbursement is standing at 19.5% of the GEF Trust
Fund with the remaining funds earmarked mostly for the disposal and warehouse
construction tender contracts.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Project’s Development Objectives

The original PDO is: Assist the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia to eliminate
inventoried publicly-held obsolete pesticide stockpiles and associated waste, and
implement measures to reduce and prevent future related risks.

The revised PDO is: Assist the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia to eliminate
and/or safeguard inventoried publicly-held obsolete pesticide stockpiles and associated
waste, and develop a strategy for sustainable management of future accumulations.

The original PDO implied that all inventoried obsolete pesticides would be eliminated.
With the discovery of higher than estimated stocks, including associated waste, it is
preferable to adopt a blended approach of disposal overseas and lower cost safeguarding
in-country based on risk profiling of the inventoried pesticides and associated waste, and
availability of satisfactory storage facilities. In addition, the original PDO assumed no
new accumulations of obsolete pesticides during the life of the project, which has been
proven difficult to achieve in the context of agricultural intensification resulting in
continuous new accumulations. Therefore, it is proposed that the project focus rather on
developing a strategy for management of future accumulations.

Results/indicators

The project PDO Level Results Indicators2 will be reduced in number and revised to
focus on the two project objectives (disposal and/or safeguarding and development of a
management strategy). All other original PDO indicators will be integrated in the RF as
intermediate results indicators as appropriate:

The original PDO Level Results Indicators are:

1. The inventory database of Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks is in place and
being used by the PMU and the Recipient's staff;
2. Inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks have been disposed of, as a result
of the completion of the Disposal Services contract(s) in accordance with national and
international laws and regulations;
3. A plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, for the decontamination of soils
in priority sites has been prepared by the Recipient;
4. The legal and regulatory framework for pesticide management has been improved and
includes measures to strengthen compliance with the Basel Convention and the
Rotterdam Convention;

2
    In the GEF Grant Agreement, the term is Performance Monitoring Indicators


                                                     5
5. The training program under Part B of the Project has been implemented, and the
knowledge so acquired is being used by the PMU and the Recipient's staff;
6. The PMU is functional, and its operation is satisfactory to the Bank.

The revised PDO Level Indicators are:

1. Inventoried publicly held obsolete pesticides and associated waste disposed of and/or
safeguarded by the end of the project;
2. A strategy for sustainable management of future accumulations adopted by the
Steering Committee3 by the end of the project.

In addition, a project-specific RF will be introduced for effective monitoring and
evaluation of project progress. The new RF will replace the programmatic one submitted
to Board, which did not include country-specific intermediate results indicators. For the
proposed RF, please refer to Annex 1.

Components

The following changes will be introduced to Parts B and C in the GEF Grant Agreement,
Schedule 2 (marked in Italic):

Part B: Disposal and/or Safeguarding of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste

Safeguarding and/or disposal of Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks and Associated
Waste by: (a) carrying out of a technological assessment of available safeguarding and
disposal options; (b) implementation of the safeguarding and/or disposal technology
selected; (c) improving the operations of Obsolete Pesticide stocks collection centers,
including store stabilization and safety measures at those centers; and (d) container
management.

The changes reflect the addition of safeguarding as an outcome and clearly define
associated waste as an integral part of the stocks to be treated.

Part C: Reduction of Obsolete Pesticide and Associated Waste Re-Accumulation

Carrying out of activities aimed at reducing Obsolete Pesticide and Associated Waste re-
accumulation, including: (a) awareness raising activities on the Program, health and
environmental hazards of pesticides; (b) a review and update of the legal and regulatory
framework to control Obsolete Pesticide accumulation and strengthen enforcement
mechanisms; (c) preparation of a sustainable pesticide management strategy; (d)
strengthening the pesticide management capacity of storage warehouses; (e) provision of
training to relevant staff of the Recipient on health and safety issues, and environmental
monitoring; and (f) strengthening awareness on the pesticide management legal
framework and homologation systems.


3
 The Project Steering Committee is comprised of appropriate line ministries and defined in the grant
agreement.


                                                    6
The changes reflect the integration of the capacity building component in the revised
prevention component as both aim at improved pesticide management practices, and
removal of the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) activities where the potential impact is
likely to be marginal.

Financing

o      Reallocations

A reallocation of the GEF proceeds from the Goods (US$414,000), Consulting Services
(US$77,000), Operating Costs (US$47,000) and Unallocated (US$80,000) categories to
the Disposal Services (US$600,000) and Training and Workshops categories
(US$18,000) is required to accommodate the disposal and/or safeguarding of all the
additional stocks and associated waste inventoried and provide additional related training.
For the proposed reallocation, please refer to Annex 2.


Closing date

The GEF TF Closing Date requires extension from June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2012
in order to compensate for start-up delays. By extending the closing date, the revised
PDO will become achievable. This will be the first extension of the closing date for a
total of 18 months. A procurement plan for the extended period is available. For the
proposed extension, please refer to Annex 3.

Implementation schedule

Given the extension of the Closing Date and start-up delays, the disposal and
safeguarding activities are expected to commence in November, 2011 and conclude in
December 2012.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

      Technical. The PAD indicates that inventoried obsolete pesticide stocks and
associated wastes will be safeguarded and then shipped overseas to approved, high
temperature hazardous waste disposal facilities. Under the restructuring and as a result of
higher than budgeted stocks of pesticides, 200 tons of lower-risk stocks across 40 sites
will be safeguarded in-country by local staff at a lower cost, and will not be shipped
overseas for disposal. Safeguarding entails repackaging and storing of stocks in secure
storage facilities to which the public has no access. All safeguarding operations will be
monitored by the competent national authorities in accordance with national regulation
and the Basel and Stockholm conventions, and will follow separate EMPs and associated
Health and Safety and Environment (HSE) plans.




                                            7
Table 1. Average Toxicity Value of Pesticides (Sp)
 Safeguarding monitored by Government                             29,672
 Safeguarding and disposal operated by the                        95,079
 contractor

       Risk. During the preparation of the PAD, a number of country-level risks were
identified. The following risks are those that are still valid in terms of their effect on the
revised PDO:

Table 2. Project Risks
 Risk                       Status                               Rating

       Weak                This has been a key impediment       Medium-I
 procurement                to project implementation. The
 implementation             Bank had provided procurement
 capacity                   support to the PMU through the
                            ASP MDTF, which has resulted
                            in improved procurement
                            capacity within the PMU
       Lack of clear       Although the procurement             Medium-I
 procurement working        working arrangements are clear,
 arrangement between        procurement has been
 PMU and the                experiencing significant delays
 Ministry’s                 due to delays in approving
 Procurement and            procurement within the
 Property                   Administration. The Bank team
 Administration             continues to work with the PMU
                            and Ministry to improve process
                            time.




                                              8
                                                                ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring

                                                     ETHIOPIA - AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1

                     Project Development Objective (PDO):
                     Assist the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia to eliminate inventoried publicly-held obsolete pesticide stockpiles and associated
                     waste, and implement measures to reduce and prevent future related risks.
                     Revised Project Development Objective:
                     Assist the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia to dispose of and/or safeguard inventoried publicly held obsolete pesticide stocks and
                     associated waste, and develop a strategy for sustainable management of future accumulations.
                                        D=Dropped                                               Cumulative Target Values**                                               Responsibility
                                 Core




     PDO Level Results                  C=Continue   Unit of                                                                                          Data Source/         for Data
                                                                    Baseline       Actual through                               YR6     Frequency
       Indicators*                      N= New       Measure                                               YR5                                        Methodology         Collection/
                                        R=Revised                                      YR4                                                                                Explanation
Indicator One:                          N            Percent    0              0                            40            100         Semi-annual   Progress reports,    PMU, Bank
Inventoried publicly held                            age                                                                                            supervision
obsolete pesticides and                                                                                                                             missions, disposal
associated waste disposed of                                                                                                                        certificate/s
and/or safeguarded by the end
of the project4
Indicator Two:                          N            Qualitat   No strategy    Draft strategy       Strategy adopted by   -           Semi-annual   Semi-annual          PMU, Bank/
A strategy for sustainable                           ive        in place       prepared and         SC                                              progress reports,    The PMU will
management of future                                                           discussed with                                                       supervision          submit the final
accumulations adopted by the                                                   stakeholders                                                         missions             draft strategy
Steering Committee by the end                                                                                                                                            to the project
of the project.                                                                                                                                                          SC which will
                                                                                                                                                                         adopt it and
                                                                                                                                                                         include its
                                                                                                                                                                         decision in the
                                                                                                                                                                         meeting’s
                                                                                                                                                                         minutes
                                                                                                INTERMEDIATE RESULTS




      4
          The final inventory consists of 450 tons of obsolete stocks and 850 tons of associated waste.




                                                                                                9
                     Intermediate Result (Component A): Not available

                     Revised Intermediate Result (Component A): Obsolete pesticide stocks and associated waste prioritized on the basis of risk and available funds

Intermediate Result indicator                        Percent     0                    100             -                       -               Semi-annually       Progress reports   PMU,
One:                                                                                                                                                              and supervision    FAO/TSU
Percent of validated inventory        N                                                                                                                           missions
data entered into PSMS
Intermediate Result indicator                        Qualitat    CESA-1 in     A draft                CESA cleared by         -               Semi-annually       Progress reports   PMU and
Two: Approved CESA                    N              ive         place         CESA(CESA-2)           the Bank and                                                and supervision    Bank/ CESA
available for use by the                                                       available              disclosed at                                                missions           approved by
disposal company                                                                                      InfoShop and in-                                                               the Bank and
                                                                                                      country                                                                        disclosed in-
                                                                                                                                                                                     country and in
                                                                                                                                                                                     Infoshop
                     Intermediate Result (Component B): Not available
                     Revised Intermediate Result (Component B): A final disposal tender and an approved container management strategy
Intermediate Result indicator         N              Qualitati   No            Terms of reference     A final draft           -               Semi-annually       Progress reports   PMU, Bank/
One: A final draft container                         ve          strategy in   available,             strategy in place and                                       and supervision    The PMU will
management strategy submitted                                    place         consultants CVs        submitted to the SC                                         missions           forward the
to the Steering Committee for                                                  obtained               for endorsement                                                                final draft
approval                                                                                                                                                                             report to its SC
                                                                                                                                                                                     for
                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement.
                                                                                                                                                                                     The meeting’s
                                                                                                                                                                                     decision will
                                                                                                                                                                                     be minuted.
                     Intermediate Result (Component C): Not available

                     Revised Intermediate Result (Component C): Reduction of Obsolete Pesticide and Associated Waste Re-Accumulation
Intermediate Result indicator                        Number      0             0                      1                       2               Semi-annually       Progress reports   PMU, ASP
One: Two planned                      N                                                                                                                           and supervision    NGO network,
communication tools                                                                                                                                               missions           WWF
implemented
Intermediate Result indicator                        Qualitati   No plan in    Consultative           A final draft           -               Semi-annually       Progress reports   PMU, Bank/
Two: A final draft sustainable        N              ve          place         process started        strategy finalized                                          and supervision    The PMU will
management plan for obsolete                                                                          and submitted to the                                        missions           hand the final
pesticides and associated                                                                             SC                                                                             draft report to




                                                                                                 10
wastes prepared and submitted                                                                                                                                 the SC, whose
to the SC for endorsement                                                                                                                                     decision will
                                                                                                                                                              be minuted.
Intermediate Result indicator     N   Qualitati   None in   A Pesticide         Workshops for up-     -                   Semi-annually    Progress reports   PMU, Bank/
Three: A Pesticide Registration       ve          place     Registration and    dating and merger                                                             The PMU will
and Control Proclamation                                    Control             of ministerial                                                                coordinate the
drafted for submission to                                   Proclamation        directives into one                                                           planned
Parliament                                                  approved and        regulation                                                                    workshops.
                                                            proclaimed by                                                                                     The regulation
                                                            Parliament                                                                                        will be in a
                                                                                                                                                              draft form for
                                                                                                                                                              Government’s
                                                                                                                                                              future action
                                      Number      0         Design of a new     -                     Construction work   End of project   Completion         PMU, Bank
Intermediate Result indicator
                                  N                         warehouse in                              completed                            report
Four: Availability of one new
                                                            Kality and ToRs
storage warehouse for pesticide
                                                            for review of
management
                                                            design




                                                                           11
                            ANNEX 2: Reallocation of Proceeds

             ETHIOPIA – AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME-PROJECT 1
                                   P105711
                                  TF090543

1. Proceeds for Africa, Africa Stockpiles Programme – Project 1, Grant No TF090543,
   P105711 will be reallocated as follow:

    Category of Expenditure         Allocation (US$)           % of Financing
     Current        Revised        Current    Revised       Current     Revised
  Goods          Goods            550,000    136,000       100        100
  Works          Works            310,000    310,000       100        100
  Consultancy    Consultancy      320,000    243,000       100        100
  Services       Services
  Disposal       Disposal         600,000        1,200,000 100        100
  Services       Services
  Training and   Training and     140,000        158,000   100        100
  Workshops      Workshops
  Operating      Operating        620,000        573,000   100        100
  Costs          Costs
  Unallocated    Unallocated      80,000    0
  Total                           2,620,000 2,620,000

  2. See sections B and C above for more detail.




                                            12
                        ANNEX 3: Extension of Closing Date

          ETHIOPIA – AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME-PROJECT 1
                                P105711
                               TF090543


1. The Closing Date for Africa, Africa Stockpiles Programme – Project 1, Grant No
    TF090543, P105711 will be extended from June 30, 2011 until December 31, 2012.
2. This will be the first extension of the project for a total of 18 months.
3. See sections B and C above for more detail.




                                       13
                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                      Report No: 62795-ZA




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                          ON A

                   PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                 OF
           AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1 PROJECT
           GLOBAL ENVIROMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND TF055763

                                     August 12, 2005



                                         TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA

                                      June 20, 2011




This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank Group authorization.
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASP      Africa Stockpiles Programme
ASPIC    ASP Implementation Committee
ASP-P1   ASP - Project 1
AVCASA   Agricultural and Veterinary Chemicals Association of South Africa
CESA     Country Environmental and Social Assessment
CLI      CropLife International
DAFF     Department of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries
DEA      Department of Environmental Affairs
DEAT     Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
GEF      Global Environment Facility
IIWMP    Integrated Industry Waste Management Plan
IP       Implementation Performance
MDTF     Multi-Donor Trust Fund
NEPAD    New Partnership for Africa’s Development
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PAN-UK   Pesticide Action Network – United Kingdom
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PPRI     Plant Protection Research Institute
RF       Results Framework
RSA      Republic of South Africa
TSU      Technical Support Unit
WWF      World Wildlife Fund




             Regional Vice President:     Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
         Regional Integration Director:   Yusupha B. Crookes
                      Country Director    Ruth Kagia
                      Sector Manager:     Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
                   Task Team Leader:      Ellen J. Tynan
                              AFRICA
       AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1 SOUTH AFRICA
                              P105711
                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                  Page
A.  SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 1 
B.  PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 1 
C.  PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 3 
                                   .
D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................... 7 
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 8 
ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ...................................................................... 10 
                                                  DATA SHEET

Restructuring Status: Draft
Restructuring Type: Level 1

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                                        P075776: Africa: Africa Stockpiles Programme – Project 1
Country                                                  Republic of South Africa
Task Team Leader                                         Ellen J. Tynan
Sector Manager                                           Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
Director (Regional Integration)                          Yusupha B. Crookes
Country Director                                         Ruth Kagia
Original Board Approval Date                             August 12, 2005
Original Closing Date:                                   11/30/2009
Current Closing Date                                     06/30/2012
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]                    N/A
EA Category                                              A-Full Assessment
Revised EA Category                                      N/A
EA Completion Date                                       3/17/2004
Revised EA Completion Date                               N/A

2. Revised Financing Plan (US$ m)1
Source                                                   Original                               Revised
GEF (through the World Bank)                             1.70                                   1.70
RSA Government2                                          0.70                                   0.70
CropLife International3                                  0                                      0.51
Total                                                    2.40                                   2.91

3. Borrower
Organization                               Department                                   Location
Republic of South Africa                                                                Pretoria, Republic of South
                                                                                        Africa

4. Implementing Agency
Organization                                 Department                               Location
Ministry of Water and                        Department of Environmental              Pretoria, Republic of South Africa
Environmental Affairs                        Affairs


     1
       This is an update to the financing plan identified in the PAD. The one change introduced is parallel
     financing from CLI as described in footnote 3.
     2
       Parallel financing for expenditures not financed by the GEF Grant, such as staff salaries, offices and other
     operating costs.
     3
       Parallel financing through direct agreement between CLI and DEA for activities not financed by the GEF
     Grant. Disbursement is managed according to DEA’s guidelines.
                                                           i
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$)
Actual amount disbursed as of May 31, 2011
Total to-date: US$ 546,666
Fiscal Year                     Annual                                Cumulative
Through 2011                    700,000                               700,000
2012                            400,000                               1,100,000
2013                            600,000                               1,700,000
                                Total                                 1,700,000

6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                         No
Does the scale-up of restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes,         No
please select from the checklist below.

Safeguard Policy                                                         Last Rating      Proposed
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                                             X               X
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       X               X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)

7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
To assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and
Associated Waste; and (b) implementing measures to reduce and prevent future related risks.

7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
To assist the Recipient in the development and piloting of a sustainable system to identify, collect and
dispose of obsolete pesticides and associated waste.




                                               ii
                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

This Restructuring Paper requests the Board’s approval to make revisions to (i) the
Project Development Objective (PDO) and PDO Level Results Indicators, (ii) project
description, (iii) proceeds allocation, (iv) financing plan, (v) safeguard requirements, (vi)
implementation schedule, and (vii) introduce a project-specific Results Framework (RF).
In addition, a formal update of the responsible agency’s title is requested.

The Project Development Objective (PDO) and PDO Level Results Indicators require
revision in order to reflect a shift from complete elimination of all inventoried publicly-
held obsolete stocks and associated waste to the development and piloting of a
sustainable system to identify, collect and dispose of obsolete pesticides and associated
waste in the private and public sectors. The new PDO and PDO indicators would reflect
the South Africa reality where (i) most obsolete pesticide stocks are held by private
farmers and not by government, (ii) the discovery of higher than budgeted stocks, and
(iii) agricultural intensification leading to continuous accumulation of obsolete stocks and
the need to develop an independent sustainable system which would treat them in the
future and that would be driven by the pesticides industry. As with all ASP country
projects, a project-level RF was not prepared for Africa Stockpile Program (ASP)-South
Africa when it was submitted to Board in 2005; rather, the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) contained a program-level RF and project-specific Performance Monitoring
Indicators. Proceeds will be reallocated to accommodate the increased disposal budget
and the temporary storage of obsolete pesticide stocks safeguarded by the project. The
project’s financing plan and implementation schedule will be updated, and a revised
safeguards instrument agreed to by the Bank safeguard team will be introduced.

B. PROJECT STATUS

Because of the major differences between the reality on the ground in South Africa and
the original PDO as described, the project has been rated “Unsatisfactory” in its last ISRs.
Implementation Performance is rated “Moderately Satisfactory”. Following the
restructuring, there is every indication that the project will begin to perform at a
satisfactory level. Project rate of disbursement stands at 32 percent, and is expected to
increase significantly (an additional 60 percent) once the disposal and safeguarding of the
stocks in two additional provinces commence.




                                             1
The following progress has been made under the project components:

Component A: Obsolete Pesticides Inventory

This component has not been implemented since at the time the project was launched it
became clear that a national inventory using the proposed traditional tools would not be
cost-effective to accurately map and quantify obsolete pesticide stocks in a reality where
most stocks are held by private farmers and not in the public domain, as is the case in the
other ASP-P1 countries. The proposed restructuring will therefore include a revision of
this component to the development and piloting of a booking line run by the private
sector and supervised by the government, where farmers voluntarily declare stocks in
their possession.

Component B: Disposal of Obsolete Pesticides

A pilot operation was carried out in Limpopo Province to collect obsolete pesticide
stocks. A Risk Assessment (RA) Report and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
were developed for the pilot, peer reviewed by the Department of Environmental Affairs
(DEA), an independent consultant and the ASP-South Africa Non-Government
Organization (NGO) representative, and cleared by the Bank on November 15, 2010.
Disposal of the stocks was funded through CropLife International (CLI), the ASP private
sector partner; following all necessary protocols, including the Basel Convention
guidelines, the non-hazardous pesticides and associated waste were disposed in-country
while the hazardous stocks (approximately 100 tons) were shipped to the UK for disposal
by a qualified hazardous waste disposal operator.

The pilot confirmed that the majority of obsolete stocks were held by private farmers and
not by the public sector, which is the focus of the overall ASP. In addition, it showed that
the nation-wide amount of obsolete pesticides had been underestimated and, therefore,
under-budgeted (90 tons in Limpopo Province alone compared to a national estimate of
250 tons at appraisal), and that better information on stocks held by farmers was needed.
Based on this and other lessons learned during this pilot, it was agreed with the South
Africa private sector association, Agricultural and Veterinary Chemicals Association of
South Africa (AVCASA), that the remaining disposal budget would be used to collect
and dispose of public and private stocks in two additional provinces: Free State and
Western Cape, where the amount of stocks was known, through collaboration with the
private sector. It was further agreed that the experience from this clean-up operation
would help inform the development of an Integrated Industry Waste Management Plan
(IIWMP) dictating a private sector-run scheme for collection and disposal as stipulated
by national law. The IIWMP will be a key sustainable prevention mechanism against re-
accumulation of obsolete pesticide stocks. Bidding documents for this operation are in
the final stages of preparation, and a booking line has been established by DEA and
AVCASA and introduced in the two provinces. The collection of stocks is expected to
commence in August 2011 and all stocks will be disposed of by June 2012.




                                             2
Component C: Prevention of Obsolete Pesticide Accumulation

Prevention activities which were to be funded by the project include awareness raising
activities on the health and environmental hazards of pesticides, review and updating of
the legal and regulatory framework, preparation and implementation of an Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) strategy and the preparation and implementation of a training plan.
The national Department of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF) indicated that
they would not require the funding for these activities, as these have already been carried
out by DAFF and the private sector using their own budget since these fall under their
mandate. Funds for this component will therefore be reallocated to other components of
the project (see Annex 2).

Component D: Capacity Building

DEA staff have benefited from a study tour to Australia funded by CLI, in which they
became familiar with the country’s privately-run obsolete pesticide collection and
disposal system, which now serves as a model for the intended system in South Africa.

Component E: Project Management

The project is managed by DEA staff, who coordinates consultancies and audits, prepares
reports and communicates regularly with the Bank.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Project’s Development Objective

The original PDO is: to assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held
Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and (b) implementing measures to
reduce and prevent future related risks.

The revised PDO is: to assist the Recipient in the development and piloting of a
sustainable system to identify, collect and dispose of obsolete pesticides and associated
waste.

The new PDO would reflect the South Africa reality where (i) most obsolete pesticide
stocks are held by private farmers and not by government, (ii) the discovery of higher
than budgeted stocks, and (iii) agricultural intensification leading to continuous
accumulation of obsolete stocks and the need to develop an independent sustainable
system which would treat them in the future and that would be driven by the pesticides
industry.

Results/indicators

PDO Level Results Indicators4 will be reduced in number and revised to focus on the
revised outcomes, i.e., the development of a system to manage future accumulations and

4
    In the Grant Agreement and PAD these indicators are called Key Performance Indicators.

                                                     3
safeguarding and/or disposal of stocks in the three selected pilot sites (Limpopo5,
Western Cape and Free State provinces). All other original PDO indicators will be
integrated in the RF as intermediate results indicators as appropriate.

The original PDO Level Results Indicators are:

1)      Inventory database of Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks in place and being
used by the PMU and the Recipient’s government staff;
2)      Completion of CESA, and implementation of the measures contained therein;
3)      Inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks disposed of, as a result of
the completion of the Disposal Services contract(s) in accordance with national and
international laws and regulations;
4)      Legal and regulatory framework for pesticide management improved, including
measures to strengthen compliance with the Basel Convention and the Rotterdam
Convention;
5)      The training program under Part D of the Project is implemented and the
knowledge so acquired is being used by the PMU and Recipient’s government staff;
6)      The PMU is functional and its operation is satisfactory to the Bank.

The revised PDO Level Indicators are:

1)      A system for identifying, collecting and disposing of private and public obsolete
pesticide stocks and associated waste developed through collaboration with the private
sector association6;
2)      Three pilot safeguarding and/or disposal operations implemented.

In addition, a project-specific RF will be introduced for effective monitoring and
evaluation of project progress. The new RF will replace the programmatic one submitted
to Board, which did not include country-specific intermediate results indicators. For the
proposed RF, please refer to Annex 1.

Components

The proposed revised components reflect the following:

(i) A change from a nationwide inventory of publicly-held obsolete pesticides to a
voluntary booking line where farmers in selected provinces can declare obsolete
pesticides;

(ii) A shift from a nationwide clean-up of public obsolete pesticides to developing and
piloting an adapted sustainable system for identifying, collecting and disposing of private
and public obsolete pesticide stocks and associated waste;

(iii) Removing the upgrading of intermediary collection centers as national selected
centers meet international standards;

5
    The pilot operation in Limpopo has already been finalized as described.
6
    Taking into account lessons learnt from Limpopo pilot operation and Australian fact finding mission.

                                                       4
 (iv) Adjusting prevention activities, including IPM development, to take into account
those activities already being carried out by DAFF, the Plant Protection Research
Institute (PPRI) and AVCASA under their respective mandates and budgets, and merger
with the capacity building component;

(v) Adjusting the prescribed safeguards instruments for the safeguarding and disposal
work. It has been agreed with the Bank Safeguards team that given South Africa’s
environmental assessment policies and successful implementation of the EMP and
independent review during the Limpopo pilot, a Country Environmental and Social
Assessment (CESA, as required in other ASP countries) will not be utilized in the South
Africa case. Instead, the proven approach of an EMP and an independent review will be
utilized for the operations in the two additional pilot provinces.

The following revised project description is proposed:

Part A: Identification and Collection of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste

Identification and collection of obsolete pesticides and associated waste by: (a)
establishing a booking line where farmers in selected provinces voluntarily declare
obsolete pesticides and associated waste in their possession; (b) preparing Environmental
Management Plans; and (c) collecting and transporting identified obsolete pesticides and
associated waste to collection centers.

Part B: Safeguarding and/or Disposal of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste

Safeguarding and/or disposal of obsolete pesticides stocks and associated waste by: (a)
carrying out of a technological assessment of available safeguarding and disposal
options; and (b) implementing the safeguarding and/or disposal technology selected in
three pilot provinces.

Part C: Awareness Raising and Capacity Building

Carrying out of activities aimed at raising awareness on the health and environmental
hazards of pesticides and strengthening the capacity of the PMU to implement the Project
through the provision of training.

Part D: Project Management

Supporting the PMU in carrying out Project coordination, implementation, monitoring
and evaluation through the provision of technical advisory services, equipment and
operational support.




                                            5
Safeguards

As a condition for disposal, an EA/EMPs will be prepared and submitted for approval by
the Bank, followed by disclosure in-country (through DEA website) and in InfoShop.
This approach has been agreed with the Bank safeguards team given the successful
implementation of the Limpopo EMP and independent review. The list of triggered
safeguard policies remains unchanged.

Institutional Arrangements

The name of the project implementing agency/Recipient representative identified in the
GEF Grant Agreement and PAD is the Department of Environmental Affairs and
Tourism (DEAT), under the Ministry of Environmental Affairs and Tourism. The
Ministry has since been replaced by the Ministry of Water and Environmental Affairs and
the implementing agency is the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA). This has
had no effect on procurement or financial management capacity since no relevant
personnel have been replaced or removed.

Financing

o Financing Plan

The revised financing plan will reflect the parallel financing of the private sector partner,
CLI, which has contributed funds toward the disposal of the privately-held hazardous
waste stocks from the Limpopo Province, an activity which was not to be funded by the
GEF Grant. CLI’s contribution was provided through a direct agreement between CLI
and DEAT using DEAT’s disbursement guidelines.

Table 1. Original and Revised Financing Plan (US$ million)
 Source                      Original                   Revised
 GEF (through the World      1.70                       1.70
 Bank)
 RSA Government              0.70                       0.70
 CLI                         0                          0.51
 Total                          2.40                           2.91

o Reallocations

A reallocation of GEF proceeds is proposed, from the Consultant Services category
(US$215,000), Workshops and Training category (US$75,000) and Unallocated category
(US$245,000) to the Goods, Works, Disposal Services and Operating Costs categories.
The proposed changes are the result of: (i) costs incurred by the temporary storage of
obsolete pesticides collected during the Limpopo pilot (Works category); (ii) a smaller
than expected number of workshops were needed and necessary training carried out using
parallel financing; (iii) an increase in the budget for disposal to fund disposal and/or
safeguarding of additional stocks; and (iv) increased operating costs because of the recent
extension of the project (approved on May 3, 2011). Since a significant portion of the

                                              6
planned consulting, workshops and training is financed by DAFF, PPRI and the private
sector, project performance will not be adversely affected by the proposed reallocation.
See Annex 2 for the reallocation table.

Implementation Schedule

Disposal and safeguarding is expected to be completed in June 2012.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

Financial Management. GEF Grant allocation and percent of expenditures to be financed
will be modified as described in Annex 2.

Environment. The original design called for the preparation of a CESA and site- or
activity-specific EMPs. As agreed with the Bank for the pilot operation in Limpopo, in
the case of South Africa, the two additional pilot operations will be guided by
independently reviewed EMPs.

Risks. During the preparation of the PAD, a number of country-level risks were
identified. The following risks are those that are still valid in terms of their effect on the
revised PDO:

Table 2. Project Risks
 Risk                       Status                                   Rating
       Inventory is        A booking line based on voluntary        Medium-L
 inaccurate                 declaration of stocks is in place and
                            operating, determining the scale of
                            the collection and treatment
                            operations. However, private sector
                            has good estimates as to the scale of
                            the stocks in the two provinces.

The main new risk after restructuring is: there could be a delay in the implementation of
the collection and disposal contract. However, the more significant involvement of the
World Bank procurement specialist and the recent extension of the Closing Date are
expected to successfully mitigate this risk. It will continue to be closely monitored by the
team.




                                              7
                                                                  ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring

                                                 SOUTH AFRICA - AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1

                     Project Development Objective (PDO):
                     Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and (b) implementing
                     measures to reduce and prevent future related risks.
                     Revised PDO:
                     Assist the Recipient in the development and piloting of a sustainable system to identify, collect and dispose of obsolete pesticides and
                     associated waste.
                                         D=Dropped                                            Cumulative Target Values                                                         Responsibility for
                                  Core




     PDO Level Results                   C=Continue   Unit of                                                                                                  Data Source/
                                                                       Baseline                                                              Frequency                         Data Collection/
       Indicators7                       N= New       Measure                       Actual through YR5                 YR 6                                    Methodology
                                                                                                                                                                                 Explanation
                                         R=Revised
Indicator One: A system for              N            Qualitati    No system in   A booking line is use in    Private and public        Semi-annually until   Progress        DEA, Bank,
identifying, collecting and                           ve           place          the two pilot provinces     obsolete pesticides       year 6                reports,        AVCASA, CLI/
disposing of private and public                                                                               stocks and associated                           supervision     The system includes
obsolete pesticide stocks and                                                                                 waste are identified,                           missions,       a booking line where
associated waste developed                                                                                    collected and disposed                                          farmers declare their
through collaboration with the                                                                                of                                                              obsolete stocks and
private sector association                                                                                                                                                    have them collected
                                                                                                                                                                              for safeguarding
                                                                                                                                                                              and/or disposal
Indicator Two: Three pilot               N            Number       0              1. Limpopo Province         3. Obsolete pesticides    Semi-annual           Progress        DEA, Bank,
safeguarding and/or disposal                                                      pilot implemented, stocks   from Western cape and                           reports,        AVCASA, CLI
operations implemented                                                            were safeguarded and        Free State Provinces                            supervision
                                                                                  non-hazardous stocks        are collected, safe-                            missions,
                                                                                  disposed of. This pilot     guarded and disposed of                         incineration
                                                                                  did not follow the                                                          certificates
                                                                                  recently developed
                                                                                  system


                                                                                               INTERMEDIATE RESULTS


       7
           Performance Monitoring Indicators in the Grant Agreement.


                                                                                                8
                    Intermediate Result (Component A): Not available

                    Revised Intermediate Result (Component A): Obsolete pesticide stocks identified accurately in two provinces
Intermediate Result Indicator                       Qualitati   No booking      Established.                 -                      Semi-annually until   Progress reports   DEA, Bank,
One: Booking line established.       N              ve          line in place                                                       year 6                and Bank           AVCASA/
                                                                                                                                                          missions           This activity has been
                                                                                                                                                                             completed by DEA
                                                                                                                                                                             and AVCASA. It is
                                                                                                                                                                             being used to identify
                                                                                                                                                                             location and
                                                                                                                                                                             quantities of obsolete
                                                                                                                                                                             stocks in the two
                                                                                                                                                                             provinces in
                                                                                                                                                                             preparation for their
                                                                                                                                                                             collection,
                                                                                                                                                                             safeguarding and/or
                                                                                                                                                                             disposal.
Intermediate Result Indicator                      Number     0                 3                            -                      Semi-annually         Progress reports   DEA, Bank, NGO
Two: Number of site-specific         N                                                                                                                    and Bank           representative
Environmental Management                                                                                                                                  mission
Plans
                     Intermediate Result (Component B): Not available

                    Revised Intermediate Result (Component B): Identified obsolete pesticide stocks disposed of or safeguarded
Intermediate Result indicator         N             Number     0                1 (Limpopo province)         3 (Limpopo, Western    Semi-annually         Progress           DEA
One: Number of sites in which                                                                                Cape and Free State)                         reports and
identified stocks are collected                                                                                                                           Bank missions
                      Intermediate Result (Component C): Not available

                    Revised Intermediate Result (Component C): Capacity building activities implemented
Intermediate Result indicator                       Number      0               1. Study tour to Australia   2. Auditing and        Annually              Submitted          Bank
One: Two training/study tours        N                                          for government staff to      monitoring courses                           training plans
implemented                                                                     learn firsthand about the
                                                                                country’s collection and
                                                                                disposal system; project
                                                                                management




                                                                                               9
                              ANNEX 2: Reallocation of Proceeds

           SOUTH AFTICA - AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1
                                    P075776
                                   TF055763

1. Proceeds for the Africa, Africa Stockpiles Programme Project 1, Grant No.
   TF055763, P075776 will be reallocated as follow:

Category of Expenditure         Allocation                % of Financing
Current       Revised           Current       Revised     Current        Revised
Goods         Goods             100,000       150,000     100%           100%

Works          Works            45,000        295,000     100%            100%

Consultant     Consultant                                 100% of         100% of
Services       Services         470,000       255,000     foreign         foreign
                                                          expenditures    expenditures
                                                          83% of local    83% of local
                                                          expenditures    expenditures
Disposal       Disposal                                   100%            100%
Services       Services         685,000       850,000

Workshops      Workshops                                  100%            100%
and Training   and Training     105,000       30,000

Operating      Operating                                  100%            100%
Costs          Costs            50,000        120,000

Unallocated    Unallocated      245,000       0
Total          N.A.             1,700,000     1,700,000

2. See sections B and C above for more detail.




                                             10
                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                      Report No: 62796-TZ




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                          ON A

                   PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                 OF
           AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1 PROJECT
           GLOBAL ENVIROMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND TF056693

                                    September 8, 2005



                                           TO

                         UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA




                                      June 20, 2011




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank Group authorization.
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASP       Africa Stockpiles Programme
ASP-P1    ASP - Project 1
CESA      Country Environmental and Social Assessment
CLI       CropLife Intenational
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organisation
GEF       Global Environment Facility
HSE       Health, Safety and Environment
IP        Implementation Performance
IPM       Integrated Pest Management
MAFSC     Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
NPPAC     National Plant Protection Advisory Committee
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCT       Project Coordination Team
PDO       Project Development Objective
PMU       Project Management Unit
PSMS      Pesticide Stock Management System
RF        Results Framework
TAD       Technical Advisor for Disposal
TF        Trust Fund
TSU       Technical Support Unit
WWF       World Wildlife Fund




             Regional Vice President:      Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
         Regional Integration Director:    Yusupha B. Crookes
                     Country Director:     John Murray McIntire
                      Sector Manager:      Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
                   Task Team Leader:       Ellen J. Tynan
                                AFRICA
           AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1 TANZANIA


                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                  Page
A.  SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 3 
B.  PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 3 
C.  PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5 
                                   .
D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................... 8 
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING .............................................. 10 
ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ...................................................................... 13 
ANNEX 3: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE ...................................................................... 14 
                                                DATA SHEET

Restructuring Status: Draft
Restructuring Type: Level 1

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                                     P103189: Africa: Africa Stockpiles Programme – Project 1
Country                                               United Republic of Tanzania
Task Team Leader                                      Ellen J. Tynan
Sector Manager                                        Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
Director (Regional Integration)                       Yusupha B. Crookes
Country Director                                      John Murray McIntire
Original Board Approval Date                          September 8, 2005
Original Closing Date:                                06/30/2010
Current Closing Date                                  12/31/2011
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]                 12/31/2012
EA Category                                           A-Full Assessment
Revised EA Category                                   N/A
EA Completion Date                                    3/10/2004
Revised EA Completion Date                            N/A

2. Revised Financing Plan (US$ m)1
Source                                                             Original                             Revised
GEF (through the World Bank)                                        6.87                                 6.87
FAO (Netherlands)2                                                  0.22                                 0.22
Recipient3                                                          0.39                                 0.39
CropLife International4                                               0                                  0.43
Total                                                               7.48                                 7.91

3. Recipient
         Organization                                 Department                                 Location
United Republic of Tanzania                                                          Dar es Salaam, Tanzania



     1
       This financing plan is an update to the plan in the PAD. The one change is the addition of CLI parallel
     financing as explained in footnote 4.
     2
       Parallel financing provided by the Government of Netherlands through a contract with FAO for provision
     of training and technical assistance to the project, which is not paid for by the GEF Grant. Funds are
     disbursed by FAO following its own disbursement guidelines.
     3
       Government cash and in-kind financing through payment of salaries, provision of offices and other
     operating costs not covered by the GEF Grant. Disbursement follows GoT disbursement guidelines.
     4
       Parallel financing through direct agreements between CLI and GoT using a separate account according to
     GoT disbursement guidelines. Funds used to supplement disposal efforts and provide additional capacity
     building not paid for by the GEF Grant.
                                                         i
4. Implementing Agency
          Organization                         Department                          Location
National Environment                                                   Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Management Council (NEMC)

5. Disbursement Estimates (US$)
Actual amount disbursed as of May 27, 2011
Total to-date: US$2,064,000
           Fiscal Year                     Annual                                    Cumulative
Through 2011                    2,064,000                                2,064,000
2012                            4,806,000                                6,870,000
                                                Total                                     6,870,000

6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                    No
Does the scale-up of restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes,                    No
please select from the checklist below.

Safeguard Policy                                                            Last Rating      Proposed
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                                                X               X
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                         X                   X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)

7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated
Waste; and (b) implementing measures to reduce and prevent future related risks.

7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Assist the Recipient in: (a) disposing and/or safeguarding inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide
stocks and Associated Waste; and (b) developing a strategy for sustainable management of future
accumulations.




                                                 ii
                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

This Restructuring Paper requests Board approval for (i) the revision of the Project
Development Objective (PDO) and PDO Level Results Indicators, (ii) introduction of a
project-level Results Framework (RF), (iii) introduction of changes in the description of
components B (Disposal of Obsolete Pesticides) and C (Prevention of Obsolete Pesticide
Accumulation), (iv) extension of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant Closing
Date, (v) reallocation of the GEF Trust Fund (TF) proceeds, and (vi) removal of the
requirement for a disposal coordinator in the Project Management Unit (PMU).

The PDO, PDO Level Results Indicators and related components require revision in order
to reflect a shift from complete elimination of all inventoried publicly-held obsolete
stocks and associated waste to elimination overseas and lower-cost in-country
safeguarding of the stocks. This will address the existence of higher than estimated
volumes of associated waste, particularly contaminated soils, resulting in a funding gap
for disposal. The revised PDO, related indicators and components’ description will also
reflect a transition from prevention of accumulation of stocks to the development a
strategy to deal with future obsolete pesticides and associated waste re-accumulation,
endorsed by Government. The original objective was based on the assumption that
demand for pesticides could be substantially reduced through project-funded prevention
activities despite evidence of increasing demand for pesticides as a result of agricultural
intensification. A project-level RF was not prepared for Africa Stockpile Program (ASP)-
Tanzania (or any other ASP country projects), when it was submitted to Board in
September 2005; rather, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) contained a program-
level RF and project-specific Performance Monitoring Indicators. The Closing Date
requires extension in order to compensate for delays in launching the disposal work and
allow for completion of all core activities. Proceeds will be reallocated to accommodate
additional field visits and training as directed by the project’s environmental and social
assessment; and the requirement for a disposal coordinator within the PMU will be
removed to reflect current working arrangements.

B. PROJECT STATUS

Disbursement is standing at 30% of the GEF Trust Fund, with the remaining funds
earmarked mostly for the disposal and safeguarding work expected to start in September
2011 (contract value US$3,177,000). The Implementation Performance (IP) rating is
Satisfactory and PDO rating is Moderately Satisfactory. With the safeguarding and
disposal contract expected to be completed in December 2012, and given the approval of
the restructuring, it is expected that the project will be completed with satisfactory
ratings.


The following progress has been made under the project components:


                                            3
Component A: Obsolete Pesticides Inventory

The nation-wide inventory of obsolete pesticides and associated waste was validated in
October 2009, covering the country’s six zones (including Zanzibar), revealing 665 tons
(net weight) of publicly held obsolete pesticides and a large amount of associated waste,
including 2,515 tons of contaminated soils in 149 sites. Importantly, while the amount of
obsolete pesticides inventoried in Tanzania is much lower than the initial estimates
(1,300 tons at appraisal), the amount of associated waste, particularly contaminated
soils5, is beyond the allocated disposal budget. Therefore, the project does not have
sufficient funds to dispose of all inventoried stocks (estimated funding gap of USD 2.4
million). It has been agreed with the Recipient that a proportion of the highly
contaminated soils would be included in the disposal contract as these pose a significant
threat to human and animal health. A Country Environmental Social Assessment (CESA)
report is currently being finalized following Bank comments, and is expected to be
disclosed in-country and in InfoShop in July 2011.

Component B: Disposal of Obsolete Pesticides

A draft disposal tender document has been prepared and submitted to the World Bank for
review on May 26, 2011. Work is expected to commence in September 2011.
Importantly, the project has conducted an emergency safeguarding operation at a high
risk site in Morogoro as advised by the Bank using an approved Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). This operation eliminated the risk emerging from obsolete
pesticides and provided the project with important experience in preparing a satisfactory
EMP and carrying out safeguarding activities, which is expected to facilitate the
forthcoming safeguarding and disposal work. The tender document will cover all
inventoried obsolete pesticides (665 tons net weight, 700 tons gross weight), a portion of
the inventoried heavily contaminated soils (300 tons gross weight) based on highest risk
profile from Morogoro as well as a limited amount of other associated waste.

Two consultative studies have been conducted through Netherlands/FAO co-financing on
assessment of contaminated soil and buried pesticides; and on pesticide management in
Tanzania. The GEF grant has funded a review of pesticide legislation and a container
management strategy and pesticide lifecycle management framework. All studies are
currently being used to develop national pesticide and empty containers management
plans. The plans will recommend changes to current legislation to be endorsed by the
National Plant Protection Advisory Committee (NPPAC) in 2011.

Component C: Prevention of Obsolete Pesticide Accumulation

Radio and TV spots have been developed and aired, and a sustainability roadmap has
been developed and adopted by NPPAC. The roadmap was also endorsed by the project’s
Steering Committee6 in June 2010.

5
  Noteworthy, the legal agreement gives the Bank the authority to determine the cases where contaminated
soils is considered as obsolete pesticide/associated waste and therefore included in the project.
6
  The Steering Committee is comprised of appropriate line ministries and others as defined in the grant
agreement.

                                                   4
Component D: Capacity Building

Representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives
(MAFSC) and NEMC participated in a CropLife International (CLI)7-funded study tour
to Kenya to learn about a private-public program8 being implemented in the country to
identify, collect and dispose of obsolete pesticides. Remaining capacity building funds
will focus on agro-chemical waste management training and other training identified by
the CESA.

Component E: Project Management

The project is managed through a well performing PMU. Project planning,
implementation and reporting are generally on-track, and satisfactory audits have been
submitted in a timely manner.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Project’s Development Objectives

The original PDO is: Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held
Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and (b) implementing measures to
reduce and prevent future related risks.

The revised PDO is: Assist the Recipient in: (a) disposing and/or safeguarding
inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and (b)
developing a strategy for sustainable management of future accumulations.

The original PDO implied that all inventoried obsolete pesticides and associated waste
would be disposed of through disposal overseas. However, with the discovery of greater
than budgeted associated waste, especially contaminated soils as described above, and the
consequent increase in the total cost for disposal, it is preferable to adopt a blended
approach of disposal overseas and lower-cost safeguarding in-country based on risk
profiling of the contaminated waste, i.e. obsolete pesticides and higher risk stocks of
heavily contaminated soils will be disposed of overseas while lower risk stocks of
associated waste will be safeguarded (and later decontaminated subject to additional
funding) in-country. This approach is expected to eliminate the stocks’ risk to nearby
population and the environment. In addition, the original PDO assumed zero new
accumulations of obsolete pesticides during the life of the project, which has been proven
difficult to achieve in the context of agricultural intensification resulting in continuous
new accumulations. Therefore, it is proposed that the project focus rather on developing a
strategy for management and reduction of future accumulations to be endorsed by the
Steering Committee.



7
    CLI is an ASP partner representing the plant science industry.
8
    CleanFarms Kenya (http://kenya.cleanfarms.net/website_english_indemnity/).

                                                     5
Results/indicators

The project PDO Level Results Indicators9 will be reduced in number and revised to
focus on the two main project outcomes (disposal and/or safeguarding and a strategy). All
other original PDO indicators will be integrated in the RF as intermediate results
indicators as appropriate:

The original PDO Level Results Indicators are:

      1. Inventory database of Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks in place and being
         used by the PCT and the Recipient’s government staff;
      2. Completion of CESA, and implementation of the measures contained therein;
      3. Inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks disposed of, as a result of
         the completion of the Disposal Services contract(s) in accordance with national
         and international laws and regulations;
      4. Legal and regulatory framework for pesticide management improved, including
         measures to strengthen compliance with the Conventions;
      5. IPM Strategy is developed and implemented;
      6. The training program under Part D of the Project is implemented and the
         knowledge so acquired is being used by the Recipient.

The revised PDO Level Indicators are:

      1. Quantity of inventoried publicly- held obsolete pesticides and associated waste
         disposed of and/or safeguarded
      2. Quantity of inventoried heavily contaminated soil disposed of and/or safeguarded
      3. Comprehensive strategy for dealing with future stocks of obsolete pesticides and
         associated wastes adopted by the Steering Committee.

In addition, a project-specific RF will be introduced for effective monitoring and
evaluation of project progress. The new RF will replace the programmatic one submitted
to Board, which did not include country-specific intermediate results indicators. For the
proposed RF, please refer to Annex 1.

Components

The following changes will be introduced to Parts B and C in the GEF Grant Agreement,
Schedule 2 (marked in Italic):

Part B: Disposal and/or safeguarding of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste

Safeguarding and/or disposal of Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks and Associated
Waste by: (a) carrying out a technological assessment of available treatment and disposal
options; (b) implementing the safeguarding and/or disposal technology selected; and (c)
improving the operations of Obsolete Pesticide stocks collection centers, including store
stabilization and safety measures at those centers.

9
    In the GEF Grant Agreement, the term is Performance Monitoring Indicators

                                                     6
The changes reflect the addition of safeguarding as an outcome and clearly define
associated waste as an integral part of the stocks to be treated.

Part C: Reduction of Obsolete Pesticide Re-Accumulation

Carrying out of activities aimed at reducing Obsolete Pesticide and Associated Waste re-
accumulation, including: (a) awareness raising activities on the Program, and health and
environmental hazards of pesticides; (b) a review and update of the legal and regulatory
framework to control Obsolete Pesticide accumulation and strengthen enforcement
mechanisms; (c) preparation and implementation of an integrated pest management
(IPM) strategy; and (d) preparation of a pesticide and container management strategies.

The change reflects the transition from prevention (zero new accumulations) to reduction
of new accumulations and the addition of a pesticide and container management
strategies as key outputs.

Financing

o      Disbursement arrangements

The ceiling for the Designated Account will increase from US$100,000 to US$200,000
based on projected expenditures. Other disbursement and financial management
arrangements will remain unchanged. This increase would lower the transaction costs
related to transferring GEF funds to the project, and allow for a more expedited
disbursement toward the end of the project.

o      Reallocations

GEF proceeds will be reallocated from the Goods (US$60,000), Works (US$40,000),
Consultant Services (US$50,000) and Unallocated (US$620,000) categories to the
Training and Workshops and Operating Costs categories. The reallocation would
accommodate field activities, training and workshops related to the prevention
component that will be conducted during the extended period. For the proposed
reallocation, please refer to Annex 2.

Closing date

The GEF TF Closing Date requires extension from December 31, 2011 to December 31,
2012 in order to compensate for delays experienced during the disposal tender process
and allow completion of all core activities, including the treatment of large quantities of
highly contaminated soils. By extending the closing date the revised PDO will become
achievable and its rating is expected to be upgraded from Moderately Satisfactory to
Satisfactory. This will be the second extension of the closing date for a total of 30
months. A work plan and a procurement plan for the extended period are available. The
project has no outstanding audits. For the proposed extension, please refer to Annex 3.



                                            7
Implementation schedule

Assuming the extension of the closing date is granted, all project activities, including the
disposal and safeguarding of inventoried obsolete pesticides and associated waste, and
the preparation of a sustainable pesticide management strategy, are expected to conclude
by December 31, 2012.

Others

o      Implementing Unit’s Title and Staff Functions (See Schedule 4 A.1.(a) of the
Grant Agreement): the project’s implementing unit’s title will change from Project
Coordination Team (PCT) to Project Management Unit (PMU) as it is currently referred
to. In addition, the requirement for a disposal coordinator within the PMU will be
removed, as disposal will be managed by the Project Coordinator with the technical
support of a CLI-funded Technical Advisor for Disposal (TAD).

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

        Technical. The PAD indicates that inventoried obsolete pesticide stocks and
associated wastes will be safeguarded and then shipped overseas to approved, high
temperature hazardous waste disposal facilities. Under the restructuring, and as a result of
significantly higher than budgeted stocks of contaminated soils, some lower-risk
contaminated soils and other associated waste will be safeguarded in-country by the
disposal contractor and local staff at a lower cost, and will not be shipped overseas for
disposal. Safeguarding entails repackaging and storing of stocks in secure storage
facilities to which the public has no access. While the contractor will be responsible for
safeguarding stocks with a relatively higher level of toxicity, the PMU will coordinate the
safeguarding of stocks with lower level of toxicity. All safeguarding operations will be
monitored by the competent national authorities in accordance with national regulation
and the Basel and Stockholm conventions, and will follow separate EMPs and associated
Health and Safety and Environment (HSE) plans.

Table 1. Quantities of Obsolete Pesticide and Associated Waste Stocks for Disposal
(Net Weight)
                                                        OP and Associated Waste
 Type of Material           Total Qty Net weight (kg)
                                                        Exported for Disposal (kg)
 Contaminated building                            2,000                           2
 Contaminated equipment                           1,250
 Contaminated material                            3,600                         3.6
 Contaminated soils                           2,515,240                        265
 Empty container                                    382                         0.4
 Pesticides                                     628,227                   628,227
 Total general                                3,150,699                   628,498

       Risk. During the preparation of the PAD, a number of country-level risks were
identified. The following risks are those that are still valid in terms of their effect on the
revised PDO:

                                              8
Table 3. Project Risks
 Risk                     Status                                   Rating
       Inventory is      Inventory has been completed and         Low
 inaccurate               validated, revealing lower than
                          budgeted stocks of obsolete pesticides
                          but larger amounts of associated
                          waste. The available disposal budget
                          will be used to dispose and/or
                          safeguard the higher risk waste
                          according to a risk profile.
        Inadequate       Lower-cost in-country safeguarding of    Low
 resources due to the     some low risk associated wastes
 scale of the pesticide   (especially contaminated soils) will
 problem                  allow utilization of available funds
                          without the need for additional
                          financing.




                                          9
                                                                   ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring

                                                      TANZANIA – AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME - PROJECT 1

                     Project Development Objective (PDO):
                     Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and (b) implementing
                     measures to reduce and prevent future related risks
                     Revised Project Development Objective:
                     Assist the Recipient in: (a) disposing and/or safeguarding inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and
                     (b) developing a strategy for sustainable management of future accumulations
                                         D=Dropped                                 Cumulative Target Values**
                                         C=Continue                                                                                                                    Responsibility for
                                  Core




     PDO Level Results                                 Unit of                          Actual                                                   Data Source/
                                         N= New                         Baseline                                      Frequency                                        Data Collection/
       Indicators*                                     Measure                         through           YR6                                     Methodology
                                         R=Revised                                                                                                                       Explanation
                                                                                         YR5
Indicator One:                           R             Percenta     0              0               100              Semi annually   Mission and progress reports,    PMU, Bank
Quantity of inventoried                                ge                                                                           incineration certificate/s
publicly- held obsolete
pesticides and associated
waste disposed of and/or
safeguarded10
Indicator Two:                           N             Percenta     0              0               100              Semi annually   Missions and progress reports,   PMU, Bank
Quantity of inventoried                                ge                                                                           incineration certificates
heavily contaminated soil
disposed      of    and/or
safeguarded11
Indicator Three:                         N             Qualitati    No strategy    Draft           Strategy         Semi annually   Missions and progress reports    PMU, Bank/
Comprehensive strategy for                             ve           in place       Strategy        finalized and                                                     The PMU will submit a
dealing with future stocks of                                                      prepared and    adopted by the                                                    final draft strategy to
obsolete pesticides and                                                            discussed       SC                                                                the SC, whose decision
associated wastes adopted                                                          with                                                                              will be minuted
                                                                                   stakeholders
by the Steering Committee


      10
           Final inventory consists of 700 tons (gross) of obsolete pesticides and associated wastes.
      11
           Final inventory consists of 300 tons (gross) of heavily contaminated soil.


                                                                                                  10
                                                                                               INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

                    Intermediate Result (Component A): Not available
                    Revised Intermediate Result (Component A): Obsolete publicly held pesticides stocks and associated waste prioritized on the basis of risk and available funds

Intermediate Result Indicator        N              Yes/No      No            Yes               -               Semi-Annually     Progress reports, and supervision        PMU, Bank, FAO/TSU
One: Validated inventory data                                                                                                     missions
entered on PSMS
Intermediate Result Indicator                       Yes/No      No            Yes               -               Semi-annually     Progress reports, and supervision        PMU, Bank/
Two: CESA completed                  N                                                                                            missions                                 CESA approved by the
                                                                                                                                                                           Bank, and disclosed in-
                                                                                                                                                                           country and in
                                                                                                                                                                           InfoShop. The CESA
                                                                                                                                                                           will guide the
                                                                                                                                                                           safeguarding and
                                                                                                                                                                           disposal work
                    Intermediate Result (Component C): Not available
                    Revised Intermediate Result (Component C): Communication plan implemented and sustainability roadmap adopted by Government
Intermediate Result Indicator                       Number     0              2                 4               Semi Annually     Progress reports and supervision         PMU, Bank, WWF
One: 4 communications                 N                                                                                           missions
actions implemented
Intermediate Result Indicator         N             Yes/No     No             No. A study       Yes             Semi-annually     Progress report and supervision          PMU, Bank/
Two: A final draft Container                                                  conducted and                                       missions                                 The PMU will submit
management plan submitted for                                                 reviewed.                                                                                    the final draft to the SC,
endorsement by the Steering                                                                                                                                                whose decision will be
Committee                                                                                                                                                                  minuted.
Intermediate Result Indicator                       Qualitati No              Sustainability    -               Semi Annually     Progress reports and supervision         PMU, Bank/
Three:                                N             ve         sustainabili   roadmap                                             missions                                 The PMU will submit
A final draft sustainability                                   ty measures    finalized and                                                                                the final draft to the SC,
roadmap developed and                                          in place       submitted to                                                                                 whose decision will be
submitted for endorsement by                                                  the SC for                                                                                   minuted.
the Steering Committee                                                        endorsement
                      Intermediate Result (Component D): Not available
                    Revised Intermediate Result (Component D): Capacity of key actors built for pesticide management

Intermediate Result Indicator                       Number      0             1. Field visit    3. Additional   Semi Annually     Progress reports                         PMU
One:                                 N                                        on pesticide      training as
Three training and/or field                                                   management        directed by




                                                                                               11
visits implemented on   by Public       CESA
improved pesticide      Private
management practices    partnerships




                                       12
                            ANNEX 2: Reallocation of Proceeds

           TANZANIA – AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME-PROJECT 1
                                 P103189
                                TF056693


1.    Proceeds for Africa, Africa Stockpiles Programme - Project 1, Grant No.
 TF056693, P103189 will be reallocated as follow:

Category of Expenditure   Allocation (US$)            % of Financing   Disbursement
  Current     Revised    Current    Revised          Current Revised      to-date
Goods        Goods      835,000    775,000           100     100       738,393
Works        Works      230,000    190,000           100     100       62,736
Consultant   Consultant 640,000    590,000           100     100       277,418
Services      Services
Disposal      Disposal       3,040,000 3,040,000 100         100       6,993
Services      Services
Training      Training       415,000    785,000      100     100       247,779
and           and
Workshops     Workshops
Operating     Operating      1,090,000 1,490,000 100         100       630,881
Costs         Costs
Unallocated   Unallocated    620,000   0         -           -         0
Total                        6,870,000 6,870,000                       1,964,200

2.     See sections B and C above for more detail.




                                          13
                      ANNEX 3: Extension of Closing Date

       TANZANIA – AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME-PROJECT 1
                             P103189
                            TF056693


1. The Closing Date for Africa, Africa Stockpiles Programme - Project 1, Grant No.
   TF056693, P103189 will be extended from December 31, 2011 until December
   31, 2012.
2. This will be the second extension of the closing date for a total of 30 months.
3. See sections B and C above for more detail.




                                      14
                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                      Report No: 62797-TN




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                          ON A

                  PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                OF
          AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1 PROJECT
         GLOBAL ENVIROMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND TF055745-TN

                                   November 21, 2005



                                         TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA



                                      June 20, 2011




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANGed    National Waste Management Agency (Agence Nationale de Gestion des
         Déchets)
ANPE     National Environmental Protection Agency (Agence Nationale de Protection
         de l’Environnement)
ASP      Africa Stockpiles Programme
ASP-P1   ASP - Project 1
CESA     Country Environmental and Social Assessment
EMP      Environment Management Plan
ESIA     Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FFEM     French Global Environment Fund (Fonds Français pour l’Environnement
         Mondial)
GEF      Global Environment Facility
IP       Implementation Performance
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
MNA      Middle East and North Africa
NGO      Non Government Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMU      Project Management Unit
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RF       Results Framework
TF       Trust Fund
TSU      Technical Support Unit




            Regional Vice President:     Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                 Regional Director:      Yusupha B. Crookes
                  Country Director:      Neil Simon M Gray
                  Sector Managers:       Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough/Hoonae
                                         Kim
                  Task Team Leader:      Ellen J. Tynan
                                 AFRICA
             AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME – PROJECT 1 TUNISIA


                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                  Page
A.  SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 3 
B.  PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 3 
C.  PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 4 
                                   .
D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................... 7 
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 9 
ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ...................................................................... 12 
ANNEX 3: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE ...................................................................... 13 
                                        DATA SHEET

Restructuring Status: Draft
Restructuring Type: Level 1

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                           P075776: Africa: Africa Stockpiles Programme – Project 1
Country                                     Republic of Tunisia
Task Team Leader                            Ellen J. Tynan
Sector Manager                              Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough/Hoonae Kim
Director (Regional Integration)             Yusupha B. Crookes
Country Director                            Neil Simon M Gray
Original Board Approval Date                November 21, 2005
Original Closing Date:                      11/30/2009
Current Closing Date                        07/31/2011
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]       06/30/2012
EA Category                                 A-Full Assessment
Revised EA Category                         N/A
EA Completion Date                          2/3/2010
Revised EA Completion Date                  N/A

2. Revised Financing Plan (US$ m)
Source                                               Original                      Revised
GEF (through the World Bank)                           4.0                           4.0
FFEM                                                  0.63                          0.63
Recipient                                             0.53                          0.53
Total                                                 5.16                          5.16

3. Recipient
         Organization                       Department                          Location
Republic of Tunisia                                                 Tunis, Tunisia

4. Implementing Agency
         Organization                       Department                          Location
Ministry of Agriculture and        The National Waste Management    Tunis, Tunisia
Environment (previously            Agency of Tunisia (ANGed)
Ministry of Environment and
Sustainable Development)




                                              i
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$)
Actual amount disbursed as of May 10, 2011
Total to-date: 990,591.66
           Fiscal Year                     Annual                                    Cumulative
Through 2010                    88,066                                   724,015
2011                            775,985                                  1,500,000
2012                            2,500,000                                4,000,000
                                                Total                                     4,000,000

6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                No
Does the scale-up of restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes,                Yes
please select from the checklist below.

Safeguard Policy                                                            Last Rating      Proposed
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                                                X               X
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                         X                   X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)                                                                    X
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)

7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated
Waste; and (b) implementing measures to reduce and prevent future related risks.

7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating and/or safeguarding inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide
stocks and Associated Waste; and (b) implementing measures to reduce future related risks.




                                                 ii
                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER
A. SUMMARY

This Restructuring Paper requests Board approval for (i) the revision of the Project
Development Objective (PDO) and PDO Level Results Indicators, (ii) introduction of a
project-level Results Framework RF), (iii) introduction of changes in the description of
components B and C, (iv) official change of the implementing agency’s title, (v)
extension of the GEF Grant Closing Date, (vi) reallocation of the GEF Trust Fund (TF)
proceeds, and (vii) addition of OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement to the list of
triggered safeguard policies.

The PDO and PDO Level Results Indicators require revision in order to reflect a shift
from complete disposal of all inventoried publicly-held obsolete stocks and associated
waste to disposal overseas and lower-cost in-country safeguarding of the stocks in face of
higher than estimated volumes of obsolete pesticides and associated waste. The revised
PDO and related indicators will also reflect a transition from prevention of accumulation
of stocks to putting in place measures for the reduction of future re-accumulations of
obsolete stocks. The original objective was based on the assumption that demand for
pesticides could be substantially reduced through project-funded prevention activities
despite evidence of increasing demand for pesticides as a result of agricultural
intensification. A project-level RF was not prepared for Africa Stockpiles Programme
(ASP) -Tunisia when it was submitted to Board, (or for any other ASP country project);
rather, the PAD contained a program-level RF and project-specific Performance
Monitoring Indicators. The Closing Date requires extension in order to compensate for
delays in launching the disposal work, including the recent country socio-political unrest.
Proceeds will be reallocated to the disposal category in order to accommodate the
disposal and safeguarding of the additional stocks. Finally, OP/BP 4.12 will be
introduced due to the planned short-term reallocation of occupants in the upcoming
clean-up of one storage site in Fathallah, for which a succinct Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) has been prepared and found satisfactory by the Bank.

B. PROJECT STATUS

Component A: Obsolete Pesticides Inventory

A detailed inventory of the Recipient's publicly-held obsolete pesticides stocks and
associated waste was carried out in 2007, revealing 1,280 tons of obsolete pesticide
stocks and 756 tons of associated waste in 205 sites across the country. The detailed
inventory revealed significantly more sites and associated waste than the 2005 total
appraised amount of 1,200 tons of obsolete pesticides across 128 sites. Following the
inventory, data were entered into a required database and validated later that year. The
database was used for risk profiling of the stocks and the preparation of a Country
Environmental and Social Assessment (CESA), which was disclosed in February 2010. A
succinct RAP was also submitted to the Bank as recommended by the CESA for the site
of Fathallah near Tunis, and was cleared on May 12, 2011.


                                            3
Component B: Disposal of Obsolete Pesticides

The disposal contract (accounting for 72% of project cost) was awarded in July 2010 to a
France-Tunisia joint venture, and the contract became effective in July 2010. As of the
end of May 2011, around 560 tons of obsolete pesticides in 12 sites and associated waste
have been treated and prepared for disposal/safeguarded. The disposal work is expected
to be completed by the end of December 2011.

Component C: Prevention of Obsolete Pesticide Accumulation

400 technical staff have been trained as part of an awareness campaign targeting 8,000
pesticide users in 2011. A diagnostic study looking at the current pesticide management
situation and offering a plan of action has been finalized and its action plan is currently
being implemented. An empty container management program began in 2009 with a pilot
operation for the collection and treatment of empty containers in two sites - Sousse and
Monastir. The operation was evaluated in December 2010 and was consequently
extended to two additional governorates. Activities under this component are expected to
be completed before the end of June 2012.

Component D: Capacity Building

Under this component, Project Management Unit (PMU) members and Non-Government
Organization (NGO) representatives received training in various areas, and a number of
workshops were organized for journalists, technical staff, engineers and NGOs on themes
related to pesticide management and environmental protection.

Component E: Project Management

The project is managed through a PMU whose performance has been Satisfactory.
Fiduciary requirements, including external audits and safeguards, are being complied
with. Disbursement is standing at 25% of the GEF Trust Fund, with the remaining funds
earmarked mostly for the disposal and safeguarding work (contract value US$2,707,700).
The Implementation Performance (IP) and PDO rating for ASP Tunisia is Moderately
Satisfactory. With the safeguarding and disposal contract expected to be completed in
December 2011, and given the proposed restructuring, it is expected that the project will
be completed with satisfactory ratings.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Project’s Development Objectives

The original PDO is: Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held
Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and (b) implementing measures to
reduce and prevent future related risks .

The revised PDO is: Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating and/or safeguarding
inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and (b)
implementing measures to reduce future related risks.

                                            4
The original PDO implied that all inventoried obsolete pesticides would be eliminated
with their disposal carried out through environmentally and technically sound disposal
overseas. However, with the discovery of higher than estimated stocks, including
associated waste as described above, and the consequent increase in the total cost for
disposal, it is preferable to adopt a blended approach of environmentally and technically
sound disposal overseas and lower-cost safeguarding in-country based on risk profiling of
the inventoried pesticides and associated waste, i.e. higher risk stocks will be shipped
overseas for disposal while lower risk stocks will be safeguarded in-country thus
eliminating their risk to nearby population and the environment. In addition, the original
PDO assumed zero new accumulations of obsolete pesticides during the life of the
project, which has been proven difficult to achieve in the context of agricultural
intensification resulting in continuous new accumulations. Therefore, it is proposed that
the project focus rather on developing a strategy and/or action plan for management and
reduction of future accumulations. It is expected that following the amendment of the
PDO, it will become achievable and its rating will be upgraded from Moderately
Satisfactory to Satisfactory.

Results/indicators

The project PDO Level Results Indicators1 will be reduced in number and revised to
focus on the two main project outcomes (disposal and/or safeguarding and reduction of
future accumulations). All other original PDO indicators will be integrated in the RF as
intermediate results indicators as appropriate:

The original PDO Level Results Indicators are:

1. Inventory database of Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks in place and being used
by the PMU and the Recipient's government staff;
2. Completion of CESA, and implementation of the measures contained therein;
3. Inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks disposed of, as a result of the
completion of the Disposal Services contract(s) in accordance with national and
international laws and regulations;
4. Legal and regulatory framework for pesticide management improved, including
measures to strengthen compliance with the Basel Convention and the Rotterdam
Convention;
5. The training program under Part D of the Project is implemented and the knowledge so
acquired is being used by PMU and Recipient's government staff;
6. The PMU is functional and its operation is satisfactory to the Bank.

The revised PDO Level Indicators are:

1. 100% of publicly held inventoried obsolete pesticides and associated waste disposed of
and/or safeguarded by the end of the project;



1
    In the GEF Grant Agreement, the term is Performance Monitoring Indicators

                                                     5
2. A strategy and/or action plan to sustainably improve management and reduce
accumulation of obsolete pesticides (including Integrated Pest Management) developed
and endorsed by the Steering Committee2.

In addition, a project-specific RF will be introduced for effective monitoring and
evaluation of project progress. The new RF will replace the programmatic one submitted
to Board, which did not include country-specific intermediate results indicators. For the
proposed RF, please refer to Annex 1.

Components

The following changes will be introduced to Parts B and C in the GEF Grant Agreement,
Schedule 2 Part B (marked in Italic):

Part B: Disposal and/or safeguarding of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste

Safeguarding and/or disposal of Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks and Associated
Waste by: (a) carrying out a technological assessment of available treatment and disposal
options; (b) implementation of the safeguarding and/or disposal technology selected; and
(c) improving the operations of Obsolete Pesticide stocks collection centers, including
improving safety measures at those centers.

The changes reflect the addition of safeguarding as an outcome and clearly define
associated waste as an integral part of the stocks to be treated.

Part C: Reduction of Re-Accumulation

Carrying out of activities aimed at reducing Obsolete Pesticide and Associated Waste re-
accumulation, including: (a) awareness raising activities on the health and environmental
hazards of pesticides; (b) a review and update of the legal and regulatory framework to
control Obsolete Pesticide accumulation and enforcement mechanisms; (c) preparation
and implementation of an integrated pest management (IPM) strategy; (d) a review of
pesticide management practices and preparation and implementation of a training plan;
and (e) preparation and endorsement of a strategy and/or action plan to sustainably
manage and reduce the re-accumulation of Obsolete Pesticides.

The change reflects the transition from prevention (zero new accumulation) to reduction
of new accumulations.

Safeguards

OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement will be added to the list of triggered safeguard
policies. As part of the Environmental Assessment carried out by the project, OP/BP 4.12
on Involuntary Resettlement was triggered for a storage site in Fathallah, a southern
suburb of Tunis, being used for business purposes by occupants. A succinct RAP,

2
  The Steering Committee is comprised of members from appropriate line ministries and others as defined
in the grant agreement.

                                                   6
considered a good practice in MNA, was prepared and found satisfactory to the Bank on
May 12, 2011. It has been subsequently disclosed in-country and in InfoShop.

Institutional Arrangements

The name of the project implementing agency identified in the PAD is the Agence
Nationale de Protection de l’Environnement (ANPE), under the Ministry in charge of
Environment. In the corresponding GEF Grant Agreement the implementing agency is
identified correctly as the Agence Nationale de Gestion des Déchets (ANGeD) under the
same ministry which was replaced in early 2011 by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Environment. However, the acronym of this implementing agency needs to be corrected
from ANGD to ANGeD in the Grant Agreement.

Financing

o      Reallocations

A reallocation of the GEF proceeds from the Consulting Services (US$250,000) and
Operating Costs (US$100,000) categories to the Disposal Services category is required in
order to accommodate the 100% disposal and/or safeguarding of the additional stocks and
associated waste inventoried. Contributions received from the French Global
Environment Fund/Fonds Français pour l’Environnement Mondial (FFEM) and GoT
will be used to cover budgeted consulting services and operating costs, respectively for
which GEF funds will not be available. For the proposed reallocation, please refer to
Annex 2.


Closing date

The GEF TF Closing Date requires extension from July 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012 in
order to compensate for start-up delays, delays experienced during the disposal tender
process and delays caused by the recent socio-political unrest in Tunisia, which held back
a portion of planned activities. By extending the Closing Date, and assuming no further
unrest in the country, the revised PDO will become achievable. This will be the second
extension of the closing date for a total of 31 months. A work plan and a procurement
plan for the extended period are available (see letter of request from Government -
Annexes 3 and 4, respectively). For the proposed extension, please refer to Annex 3.

Implementation schedule

Provided the extension of the closing date is granted, all project activities, including the
disposal and safeguarding of inventoried obsolete pesticides and re-accumulation
reduction, are expected to conclude by June 30, 2012.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

      Technical. The PAD indicates that inventoried obsolete pesticide stocks and some
associated wastes will be safeguarded and shipped overseas to be disposed of by high

                                             7
temperature hazardous waste disposal facilities. Under the restructuring, and as a result of
higher than budgeted stocks, some lower risk stocks could be safeguarded in-country at a
lower cost, and would not be shipped overseas for disposal.

      Social. The CESA which was carried out by the project determined that a succinct
RAP should be prepared for the work planned in a storage facility in Fathallah, triggering
OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. As mentioned above, a succinct RAP was
prepared and disclosed in-country and in InfoShop.

       Risk. During the preparation of the PAD, a number of country-level risks were
identified. The following risks are those that are still valid in terms of their effect on the
revised PDO:

Table 2. Project Risks
 Risk                       Status                                         Rating
       Inventory is        Inventory has been completed and               Low
 inaccurate                 validated; however there still remains a
                            risk that additional stocks could be found.
                            As a mitigation measures, the disposal
                            contract is based on two alternative
                            scenarios, including one in which
                            additional stocks are revealed during the
                            disposal and safeguarding work by the
                            contracted disposal company.
        Inadequate         Reallocation of proceeds and lower-cost        Low
 resources due to the       in-country safeguarding of lower risk
 scale of the pesticide     stocks will allow utilization of available
 problem                    funds without the need for additional
                            financing.




                                              8
                                                                   ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring

                                                       TUNISIA – AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME - PROJECT 1

                     Project Development Objective (PDO):
                     Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste; and (b) implementing
                     measures to reduce and prevent future related risks.
                     Revised Project Development Objective:
                     Assist the Recipient in: (a) eliminating and/or safeguarding inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste;
                     and (b) implementing measures to reduce future related risks.
                                          D=Dropped                                                   Cumulative Target Values**                                                           Responsibility
                                   Core




      PDO Level Results                   C=Continue   Unit of                                                                                                           Data Source/        for Data
                                                                        Baseline                                                                       Frequency
        Indicators*                       N= New       Measure                         Actual through YR5                YR6                YR7                          Methodology        Collection/
                                          R=Revised                                                                                                                                         Explanation
Indicator One:                            R            Percent      0               Stocks inventoried (100);             70          100             End of project   Completion          PMU, Bank
Percent of publicly-held                                                            Stocks prepared for disposal                                                       mission and
inventoried obsolete pesticides                                                     or safeguarding (44)                                                               completion
and associated waste disposed                                                                                                                                          report. disposal
of or safeguarded by end of                                                                                                                                            certificate/s and
project                                                                                                                                                                safeguard
                                                                                                                                                                       report(s)
Indicator Two:                            N            Qualitati    No strategy     Completion of a national        A national        Adoption of     Semi annually    Missions and        PMU, Bank,
A strategy and/or action plan to                       ve           and/or action   pesticide management            workshop          strategy                         progress reports    FFEM/
sustainably improve                                                 plan in place   diagnostic study and an         conducted to      and/or action                                        The
management and reduce                                                               action plan. Preparation of a   receive further   plan by the                                          strategy/action
accumulation of obsolete                                                            sustainability strategy,        input and         Steering                                             plan will be
pesticides (including Integrated                                                    validated by a technical        finalize the      Committee                                            submitted to
Pest Management) developed                                                          committee and submitted to      strategy and                                                           the SC by the
and endorsed by the Steering                                                        relevant line ministries for    action plan                                                            PMU. The
Committee                                                                           comments.                       accordingly                                                            SC’s decision
                                                                                                                                                                                           will be
                                                                                                                                                                                           minuted.

                                                                                                 INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

                     Intermediate Result (Component A): Not available
                     Revised Intermediate Result (Component A): Obsolete publicly held pesticides and associated waste identified




                                                                                                  9
Intermediate Result Indicator   N   Yes/No   No   Yes                            -   -   Semi-      Progress reports,   PMU, Bank,
One:                                                                                     Annually   and supervision     FAO/TSU/
PSMS training completed                                                                             missions            Training
                                                                                                                        provided by
                                                                                                                        FAO
                                                                                                                        consultants on
                                                                                                                        FAO’s stocks
                                                                                                                        management
                                                                                                                        software
                                                                                                                        (PSMS). The
                                                                                                                        training would
                                                                                                                        allow staff to
                                                                                                                        enter inventory
                                                                                                                        data into the
                                                                                                                        database for
                                                                                                                        risk profiling_
Intermediate Result Indicator       Yes/No   No   Yes. 100% of data entered in   -   -   Semi-      Progress reports,   PMU, Bank,
Two:                                              FAO database and validated             Annually   and supervision     FAO/TSU/
Inventory completed             N                                                                   missions, PSMS      Nation-wide
                                                                                                    software            inventory of all
                                                                                                                        publicly held
                                                                                                                        obsolete
                                                                                                                        pesticides and
                                                                                                                        associated
                                                                                                                        waste

Intermediate Result Indicator       Yes/No   No   Yes                            -   -   Semi-      Progress reports,   PMU, Bank/
Three: CESA completed                                                                    annually   and supervision     Approved by
                                N                                                                   missions            the Bank and
                                                                                                                        disclosed in-
                                                                                                                        country and in
                                                                                                                        InfoShop. The
                                                                                                                        CESA guides
                                                                                                                        the disposal
                                                                                                                        and/or
                                                                                                                        safeguarding
                                                                                                                        work in terms
                                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                                        environmental
                                                                                                                        ad social
                                                                                                                        considerations.




                                                               10
                     Intermediate Result (Component B): Not available
                     Revised Intermediate Result (Component B): Disposal strategy implemented in accordance with the CESA
Intermediate Result Indicator        N              Number    0             2. A plan has been drafted for Preparation of Consolidatio     Semi       Progress reports,   PMU and Bank
One:                                                                        collection and treatment of    an evaluation  n of the         Annually   and supervision
Drafting and piloting of a                                                  empty containers, and piloted  report of the  piloting                    missions
container management plan in                                                in Sousse and Monastir         pilot area     results in the
two governorates                                                            governorates                                  two
                                                                                                                          governorates
                                                                                                                          targeted
                     Intermediate Result (Component C): Not available

                    Revised Intermediate Result (Component C): Reduction of Obsolete Pesticide and Associated Waste Re-Accumulation

Intermediate Result Indicator                       Number     0            0.                             1                2              Semi       Progress reports    PMU, Bank,
One: Communications                   N                                                                                                    Annually   and supervision     WWF
strategies drafted.                                                                                                                                   missions
Intermediate Result Indicator                       Qualitati   0           1                              -                2              Semi       Progress reports    PMU, FFEM/
Two: Number of revised                N             ve                                                                                     Annually   and supervision     Promulgation
pesticide management                                                                                                                                  missions            beyond the
regulation(s) drafted and                                                                                                                                                 control of the
submitted for promulgation                                                                                                                                                project
                      Intermediate Result (Component D): Not available

                    Revised Intermediate Result (Component D): Capacity of key actors built

Intermediate Result Indicator                      Number      0            26                             28               28             Semi       Progress reports    PMU and Bank
Three:                               N                                                                                                     Annually   and supervision
Number of training courses                                                                                                                            missions
provided on improved pesticide
management practices




                                                                                         11
                            ANNEX 2: Reallocation of Proceeds

              TUNISIA – AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME-PROJECT 1
                                    P075776
                                   TF055745


1.    Proceeds for Africa, Africa Stockpiles Programme - Project 1, Grant No
 TF055745, P075776 will be reallocated as follow:

  Category of Expenditure          Allocation (US$)        % of Financing
   Current       Revised          Current    Revised    Current     Revised
Goods          Goods             100,000    100,000    100        100
Consultant     Works             500,000    250,000    100        100
Services, audit,
training and
workshops
Disposal           Disposal      3,150,000 3,500,000 100          100
Services           Services
Operating          Operating     250,000     150,000   100        100
Costs              Costs
Unallocated        Unallocated   0         0           -          -
Total                            4,000,000 4,00,000

2.      See sections B and C above for more detail.




                                           12
                      ANNEX 3: Extension of Closing Date

        TUNISIA – AFRICA STOCKPILES PROGRAMME-PROJECT 1
                              P075776
                             TF055745


1. The closing date for Africa, Africa Stockpiles Programme - Project 1, Grant No.
   TF055745, P075776 will be extended from July 31, 2011 until June 30, 2012.
2. See sections B and C above for more detail.
3. This will be the second extension of the closing date for a total of 31 months.




                                      13
