Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2230 
Operation Name 
Education Sector Development Support Credit II 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Secondary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P084567 
Borrower(s) 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
Date PID Prepared 
January 9, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 25, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 7, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Relatively rapid economic growth has helped Bangladesh to reduce the poverty rate by about one 
percentage point per year since 1990.  The advent of democracy in the early 1990s was accompanied by a 
quickening in the pace of economic reforms with greater macroeconomic stability, a trend towards trade 
openness, and economic deregulation.  Growth in GDP per head has increased from 1 percent during the 
1980s to over 3 percent since the early 1990s: per capita growth has moved to an even higher trajectory of 
4
percent since FY03.  Growth has also been remarkably stable: Bangladesh is among the handful of 
countries that have sustained positive per-capita growth in each year since the early 1990s. 
 
In the context of such confrontational politics, poor initial conditions and vulnerability to natural 
disasters, Bangladesh’s achievements in economic and social development have been remarkable.  
Progress on social measures has been encouraging.  Gross primary enrollment rates are close to 100 
percent, and the secondary enrollment rate has more than doubled since independence.  Bangladesh has 
already met the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) on gender parity in school enrollment at 
secondary and primary levels.  The child mortality rate has halved, and life expectancy has increased by 
more than 15 years.  The decline in infant and child mortality rates, from 140 and 95 respectively in 1972 
to about 60 and 30 in 2000, was among the fastest in the developing world.   
 
Despite sustained progress, a formidable development agenda remains given the low starting base.  
Almost half the population is still under the poverty line, over half the country is functionally illiterate, 
and despite expanded access to education, poor quality pervades the system: less than 10 percent of grade 
one pupils complete grade 12.  Child malnutrition and maternal mortality rates are among the highest in 
the developing world.   
 
Many of these challenges can be attributed to systemic level problems with governance.  Corruption is 
widespread, the law and order situation is weak, regulations are unenforced and the government’s 
capacity to deliver essential services is restricted by a centralized administrative system.   Cognizant of 
these problems, the Government is beginning to implement a broad-based reform program to tackle 
governance issues.  Reforms in core governance areas such as public administration, tax administration, 
procurement and financial management are being implemented and are likely to have long-term benefits.  
The Government’s recently completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) also lays out an 
ambitious agenda of systemic reforms.   
 
Page  2
The Bank has
 supported a subset of the Government’s reform agenda through a series of Development 
Support Credits (DSCs) the first three of which were approved by the Board in 2003, 2004, and 2005.  
The DSCs support reforms focusing on improving governance contributing to accelerating the rate of 
economic growth, employment creation and poverty reduction.   
 
An area which lies outside the immediate ambit of the DSCs is education sector reform.  While the 
broader reform programs supported under the DSCs are complementary, the education sub-sector needs 
focused attention as the scope of reforms is too large and deep to be covered under an umbrella operation.  
In view of this, education sector interventions and reforms have been kept outside the DSCs and have 
been covered with deeper attention under alternative investment and development support operations. 
 
While Bangladesh has made impressive gains in access to education, governance constraints have 
contributed to the poor quality of education at all levels.  Recognizing that improving quality in the 
education sector is imperative in order to make substantial progress towards achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) and Bangladesh’s Education for All (EFA) targets, the Government has 
launched several reform measures to address this issue.   
 
At the primary education level, the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MOPME) is supported by a 
multi-donor group in implementing the Primary Education Development Program II (PEDP II) - a six-
year program of support which aims to strengthen educational access, quality and efficiency.  At the 
secondary and higher levels, reform efforts are being championed by key policymakers in the Ministry of 
Education.  The Ministry of Education (MoE) developed a medium-term framework for the secondary 
education sub-sector, which spelt out the targets to be achieved for quality improvements, and the policy 
reform measures needed to achieve these targets. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Government requested World Bank assistance in order to leverage support to implement the reform 
agenda, and the Bank supported the first phase through a single tranche programmatic development support 
credit – Education Sector Development Support Credit I (ESDSC I).  The objective of the Credit was to 
support the Ministry of Education in instituting and implementing substantive policy reforms to improve 
governance, quality and relevance of secondary education.  The credit focused on (i) greater transparency 
in the use and allocation of resources through devolving and improving the efficiency of the system with 
greater stakeholder participation; (ii) initiating reforms to help develop a transparent and high quality 
teacher recruitment system based on agreed criteria and standards; and (iii) enhancing competition in 
textbook production and publishing in order to reduce rent-seeking and improve quality of publications. 
 
The Government’s commitment to reforms has been demonstrated by the successful implementation of the 
first phase of reforms under ESDSC I.  Given the progress made, the Government has requested the Bank for 
support in deepening the reform agenda through implementing the second phase of reforms.  This credit will 
provide balance of payments support to the Government to leverage reforms aimed at raising the quality 
and cost-effectiveness of service delivery, while at the same time, improving equity of access.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The reform agenda focuses on: 
Accountability. 
 Reforms in these areas include rigorously enforcing criteria governing the establishment 
of institutions, and setting up institutional mechanisms for linking school subventions to objective 
Page  3
measures of school performance.  School management committees are being strengthened to give them 
greater responsibility regarding school supervision. 
 
Equity.
 
Demand-side interventions to encourage rural girls to attend secondary school are continuing.  
Means-testing mechanisms are being piloted to better target these subsidies to the poor.  Incentives are 
also being provided to set up institutions in underserved areas. 
 
Administration/Capacity Building 
–
MoE’s planning and policy making capacity is being strengthened 
and greater implementation responsibility will be devolved to lower levels. 
 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination.
 
MoE is placing significantly greater emphasis on program 
evaluation and monitoring to guide policy.  The capacity of the Bangladesh Bureau of Educational 
Statistics (BANBEIS) to provide good quality data is being enhanced.  Public expenditure tracking 
surveys and impact evaluation of programs are being undertaken.  Information on standardized 
examination outcomes, school performance, and on program effectiveness is being disseminated widely.  
 
Teachers’ Quality.
 
An autonomous Teacher Registration and Certification Authority has been 
established, which will have the responsibility for developing a roster of pre-qualified and certified 
individuals who are eligible to be hired as teachers.  An apex institution has been set up to be responsible 
for the management of teacher training and regulate training institutions, and teacher training is being 
undertaken in a phased manner.  
 
Textbook Production and Curriculum Development.
 
Textbook production is being opened up to 
competition, which will, over time, result in 
National Curriculum and Textbook Board’s (NCTB) role in 
publishing textbooks to be reduced.  NCTB’s role is being focused on a transparent process of textbook 
evaluation and approval.  The curriculum wing of NCTB is being strengthened to enable it to perform its 
functions more effectively.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
1. 
Overall, the program is environmentally benign, and will not have significant effects on the 
environment, natural resources, or forests.  In particular, the policies supported under the program will not 
lead to higher levels of physical investment, but will support more equitable access through reductions in 
the establishment of new schools in overserved upazilas, balanced by the establishment of institutions in 
underserved
 
upazilas
.
The proposed triggers for the third credit include the review and strengthening of 
the environmental guidelines for school construction.
 
2. 
At the secondary education level, a principal environmental concern is the need to ensure the 
provision of safe drinking water at schools, and the provision and maintenance of adequate sanitation.  To 
address these issues, IDA has been working with MoE (as part of the Second Female Secondary 
Education Stipend Project currently being implemented) to put in place arrangements to guard against the 
arsenic contamination of drinking water.  The agreed guidelines are also being used to design and 
maintain latrines.  Since 2003, over 1,400 tubewells and latrines have been constructed in schools.  Wells 
are also tested for arsenic every six months and contamination rates are in the vicinity of 15 percent.  In 
areas where the wells have been found to be contaminated, MoE has attempted to develop alternative 
means to provide arsenic-free water to children. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  4
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Amit Dar 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3430 
Fax:  
Email: Adar@worldbank.org 
 
