                                  Documentof
                               TheWorld Bank




                                                              ReportNo. 35015-BD




            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION

                          PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                     FORA

      PROPOSED SECONDPROGRAMMATICEDUCATIONSECTOR
                   DEVELOPMENTSUPPORT CREDIT

                 INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR69.1MILLION

                    (US%lOOMILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

              THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLICOFBANGLADESH


                               February7,2006




HumanDevelopmentSector Unit
South Asia Region


This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmaybe usedby recipientsonly in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwisebe disclosed

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
              Currency Unit= Bangladeshi Taka (Tk.)
                US$1 = Tk. 65.65 (December 2005)




                      GovernmentFiscal Year
                           July 1- June 30


             ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS


ADB        Asian Development Bank
ADP        Annual Development Program
BANBEIS    BangladeshBureau o f Educational and Information Statistics
BISE       Board o f Intermediate and Secondary Education
BTEB       BangladeshTechnical Education Board
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs       Community Based Organizations
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
DIA        Directorate of Inspection and Audit
DfID       Department for International Development
DSC        Development Support Credit
DSHE       Directorate o f Secondary and Higher Education
EC         European Commission
EED        Education Engineering Department
EFA        Education For All
ESDSC      Education Sector Development Support Credit
ESR        Education Sector Reform
ESRP       Education Sector Reform Program
EU         European Union
FDI        ForeignDirect Investment
FFE        FoodFor Education Program
FIMA       Financial Management Academy
FMRP       Financial Management Reform Program
FSS        Female Secondary Stipends
FY         Fiscal Year
GBs        Governing Bodies
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOB        Government o f Bangladesh
HSC        Higher Secondary Certificate
IDA        International Development Association
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
IMF        International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP     Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MDG        MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MoE        MinistryofEducation
MoF        MinistryofFinance
MoPME      MinistryofPrimaryandMass Education
MPO        Monthly Pay Order
NACER      National Advisory Committee on Education Reforms
NAEM       National Academy o f EducationManagement
NAPE       National Academy of Primary Education


                                   ..
                                  11

NCTB              National Curriculum and Textbook Board
NGOs              Non-Governmental Organizations
NORAD             NorwegianAgency for Development Cooperation
NTRCA             Non-government Teacher Registration and CertificationAuthority
NVTB              National Vocational Training Board
PEDP I            Primary Education Development Program I
PEDPII            Primary Education Development Program I1
PER               Public Expenditure Review
PRGF              Poverty Reduction GrowthFacility
PRSP              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC              Poverty Reduction Support Credit
RIBEC             Reform inBudget andExpenditure Control
ROSC              Report on Observance o f Standards and Codes
SMCs              School Management Committees
SOEs              Statement o f Expenditures
ssc               Secondary School Certificate
UNICEF            UnitedNations International Children's Fund
WDR               World Development Report




                  Country Director                Chnstine I.Wallich
                  Sector Manager                  Michelle Riboud
                  Team Leader                     Amit Dar
                 I                                                    I




   This documenthasa restricteddistributionand may beusedby recipients only in
   the performanceoftheir officialduties. Itscontentsmay not otherwisebe disclosed



                                         ...
                                        111


               THE PEOPLE'SREPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
 SECONDPROGRAMMATICEDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
                                        CREDIT


                      Creditand ProgramSummary

Borrower:     The People's Republic o f Bangladesh

Amount:       SDR 69.1 million(US$lOO million equivalent)

Terms:        Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity with 10-year grace period

Description:  This credit will assist the Ministryo f Education (MoE) inundertaking the
              secondphase o f a medium-termreform agendaaimed at addressing systemic
              governance issues inorder to raise the quality and cost-effectiveness o f
              service delivery, and improve equity o f access to secondary education. The
              reform agenda focuses on:
                 Accountability. Reforms inthese areas include rigorously enforcing the
                  criteria governing the establishment o f institutions, and setting up
                  institutionalmechanisms to link school subventions to objective
                  measures o f school performance. School management committees are
                 being strengthened to give them greater responsibility regarding school
                  supervision.
                 Equity. Demand-side interventions to encourage rural girls to attend
                  secondary school are continuing. Means-testing mechanisms are being
                  piloted to better target these subsidies to the poor. Incentives are also
                  beingprovided to set up institutions inunderserved areas.
                 Administration/Capacity Building - MoE's planning and policy making
                  capacity is being strengthened and greater implementation
                  responsibility will be devolved to lower levels.
                  Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination. MoE i s placing
                  significantly greater emphasis on program evaluation and monitoring to
                  guide policy and planning. Capacity o f the Bangladesh Bureau o f
                  Educational and Information Statistics (BANBEIS) to provide good
                  quality data i s being enhanced. Public expenditure tracking surveys and
                  impact evaluation o f programs are being undertaken. Informationon
                  standardized examination outcomes, school performance, andprogram
                  effectiveness i s being disseminated widely.
                  Teachers 'Quality. An autonomous Non-Government Teacher
                  Registration and Certification Authority has been established, which
                  will have the responsibility to develop a roster o f pre-qualified and
                  certified individuals eligible to be hired as teachers. An apex institution
                  i s being set up to be responsible for the management o f teacher training
                  andregulate training institutions. Teacher training is beingundertaken
                  inaphasedmanner.
                  TextbookProduction and Curriculum Development. Textbook
                  production i s being opened up to competition, which will, over time,
                  result ina reduction inthe role o f the National Curriculum and
                  Textbook Board (NCTB) inpublishingtextbooks. NCTB's role i s
                  being focused on a transparent process o f textbook evaluation and
                  approval. The curriculum wing o f N C T B is being strengthened to
                  enable it to perform its functions more effectively.



                                            iv

Benefits:    Improving governance has repeatedly beenidentified as the biggest
             development challenge facing Bangladesh. Lack o f good governance has
            beenthe greatest impedimentto achieving its growth potential and thus
             achieving the poverty reduction MDG. The proposedcredit will assist in
             leveraging reforms aimed at raising the quality o f service delivery, while at
             the same time improving equity inaccess to secondary education. By
             altering the incentives for the financing and provision o f education, and
             building greater accountability, these reforms will reduce rent-seeking
             opportunities and enhance cost-effectiveness.

             Itis intendedthat these reforms will leadto outcomes such as more
             equitable access to secondary education with more schools being set up in
             underservedareas, better trained and more effective teachers, reduced
             teacher absenteeism, higher enrollment and completion rates, better
             performance in standardized examinations, reducedtime to complete the
             secondary cycle, and reduced unit cost per student completingthe cycle.
             This will ultimately leadto a more skilledlabor force attuned to market
             needs, raising Bangladesh's competitiveness inglobal markets.

Risks and    Key risks andmitigation strategies include:
Mitigation   0    Macroeconomic Risks: There is a risk o f deterioration inthe
Strategy:    macroeconomic situation. Creating a stable macroeconomic environment i s
             a central pillar inGovernment's strategy inthe PRSP. The Government has
             taken actions inkey areas o f macroeconomic management - e.g. fiscal
             deficits and their domestic financing have beencurtailed, and fiscal
             transparency and budget management are being improved.
                   Political Risks. Giventhat the next elections are only about 12months
             away, there are real challenges to maintainingthe momentum ina turbulent
             political climate. However, there are also grounds for optimism. Lessons
             o f experience show that successive governments have continued to
             implement ongoing education programs and policies, and t h s trend is likely
             to continue. Furthermore, the Government has done a very soundjob o f
             communicating these reforms and the potential benefits they entail to
             stakeholders. It will thus be difficult for vested interest groups to renege on
             these reforms without meeting significant resistance from stakeholders.
                   Corruption. There have been allegations o f corruptionand resources
             meant for education have sometimes been misused. A key feature o f this
             reformpackage i s buildinggreater transparency and openness inthe system.
             Through conducting and disseminating results o f expenditure tracking
             surveys, stakeholders are made aware o f how resources meant for the
             systemare being utilized. These reforms are likely to curb corrupt
             practices.
                   Capacity Constraints. Capacity o f M o Eneeds to be strengthened to
             ensure that implementation o f reforms take place ina timely manner.
             Particular emphasis i s beingplaced on building technical planning capacity
             and focusing the ministry'srole on formulating policies, financing, setting
             quality standards, assuring quality delivery, and monitoring and evaluation.
             The capacity o f DSHE and BANBEISi s also being enhanced. Towards
             strengthening local level capacity, oversight committees have been formed
             at district andupazilla levels to monitor school performance and ensure
             public disclosure o f information. The strategy also relies on strengthening
             school management committees to give them greater responsibility to
             supervise schools. Furthermore, many reforms will be implemented in
             collaboration with the private sector and independent service providers on a
             competitive basis. This will not only leadto higher quality o f services, but



                                           V

              also ensure that MoE's capacity is not unduly stretched.
              0    Fiduciary Risks. A recent Review o f InstitutionalArrangements for
              Public Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement revealed that
              Bangladesh's public expenditure institutions needto be strengthened
              significantly. Key links inthe chain o fpublic financial accountability are
              weak. The government has begun to addressthese weaknesses
              systematically as part o f a program o f reforms being supported by UK
              DFID,theWorld Bank andthe IMF. Significant progress has beenmade
              towards the introductiono f a Medium-Tern Budgetary Framework
              (MTBF). Thisis beingpiloted infour ministries (including MoE) inFY06
              and will be extended to 6 ministries inFY07. There has beenconsiderable
              improvement inthe speed with which accounts are generated, and allowed
              the government to produce monthly fiscal reports. The Government has also
              eliminated a major conflict o f interest by separating the external audit and
              internal accounting functions, andnow needs to make the Comptroller and
              Auditor General a truly independent body, not relyingon the government
              for its budgetary allocations and administrative decisions. The Bank i s
              working with the government to develop a detailed action plan that will
              help improve the ratings on the Public Financial Management (PFM)
              indicators during the next CAS period.
                    Financial risks. While there are concerns about the uncertain external
              environment, the PRSP clearly demonstrates the Government's
              commitment to maintaining a high level o f investment inthe education
              sector. This commitment has been further strengthened through measures
              which are aimed at allocating resources more efficiently and reducing
              leakages from the system. Furthermore, Bangladesh enjoys considerable
              support from the donor community, which has indicated that their support
              to the education sector will remain high ifthe reform efforts are sustained.

Estimated     SDR 69.1 million ($100 million equivalent) disbursedina single tranche
Disbursement  upon credit effectiveness.


Sector Code:  Education
ProjectID     PO84567
Number:




                                            vi


                                   TABLEOF CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms                                                                    ii

Credit and ProgramSummary                                                                     iv

I. Introduction                                                                                1

11.   Status of the SecondaryEducation Sector                                                  3

111. The Governments ReformAgenda and Bank and Donor Support                                   6
      The Medium-Term Macro Framework                                                          6
      The PRSP                                                                                 7
      The PRSP and the Medium-Term Strategy for Education                                      7
      Bank and Donor Strategy inEducation                                                     10

IV. IDA'SSupport to the Medium-Term ReformAgenda                                              12
      System Management                                                                       14
      Teacher Effectiveness                                                                   18
      Textbooks and Curriculum                                                                20

V.    The ProposedCredit                                                                      23
      Fiduciary Issues                                                                        24
      Environmental Aspects                                                                   27
      Monitoringand Evaluation                                                                21
      Poverty and Social Impacts                                                              28
      Lessons Learned andBenefits and Risks                                                   29

Annexes

Annex A1 - Letter o f Sector Policy                                                           33
Annex A2          Policy Matrix                                                               40
AnnexB - Status o fthe Secondary EducationSector                                              46
Annex C           Data Monitoringand Performance Evaluation                                   53
AnnexD - Enhancing Community Participation Strengtheningthe Roles o f School
                                                          -
                  Management Committees                                                       57
Annex E           ESDSC I1  - Comparison   o f Triggers with Prior Actions                    60
Annex F           Environment Screening Matrix                                                62
AnnexG - Economic and FinancialAnalysis                                                       65
Annex H           IMFPublic RelationsNotice                                                   74
Annex I Bangladeshat a Glance                                                                 80

MAP IBRD 33368
 ~                                                      ~~



                                             Task Team
  Amit Dar, Task TeamLeader; Qaiser Khan, Lead HD Specialist; Hena Mukherjee, Lead Education
  Specialist; Nazmul Chaudhury,Economist; Subrata S. Dhar, Sr. Operations Oflcer, Kishor Uprety,
  Sr. Counsel; Anthony Bottrill, Lead Economist; Sandeep Mahajan, Sr. Economist; Burhanuddin
  Ahmed, Sr. Financial Management Specialist; Chau-Ching Shen, Sr. Finance Oflcer; P.K.
  Subramanian,Lead Financial Management Specialist; Irajen Appasamy, Operations Oflcer; Paul
  Martin&     Environmental Specialist, Pema Lhazom, Operations Oflcer; Syed Rashed AI-Zayed,
  Economist; Mokhlesur Rahman, Consultant; Bertha Mburugu, Program Assistant; Nazma Sultana,
  Program Assistant; and Nasreen Begum, Program Assistant.

  Peer Reviewers: Eduardo Velez, Sector Manager; ChingboonLee, Sector Leader; Trina Haque, Lead
  Economist




                                                 vii


                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT
 FORTHE SECOND PROGRAMMATICEDUCATIONDEVELOPMENTSUPPORT
                                       CREDIT (ESDSCII)


                                           I. Introduction

1,       The proposed Education Sector Development Support Credit I1(ESDSC 11)i s the second
of a series o f three Development Support Credits which aim to sustain Bangladesh's reforms in
the education sector. The first credit was approved bythe Boardon August 29,2004. The
proposed credit would support the second phase o f the Government's reform agenda for the
education sector and consolidate the progress made inimplementingreforms during the first
phase.

2.       Relatively rapid economic growth has helpedBangladesh to reduce the poverty rate by
about one percentagepoint per year since 1990. The advent o f democracy inthe early 1990s was
accompanied by a quickeninginthe pace o f economic reforms with greater macroeconomic
stability, a trend towards trade openness, and economic deregulation. Growth inGDP per head
has increased from 1percent duringthe 1980sto over 3 percent since the early 1990s:per capita
growth has moved to an even higher trajectory of 4 percent since FY03. Growth has also been
remarkably stable: Bangladesh i s among the handful o f countries that have sustained positiveper-
capita growth ineach year since the early 1990s.

3.       The political culture inBangladesh i s yet to become congenial. Prolongedopposition
boycotts o f parliament, frequent hartals (work stoppages), and more recently, political violence,
have contributedto increased turbulence inthis young democracy.

4.       Inthe context ofsuch apolitical scenario, poor initial conditions andvulnerability to
natural disasters, Bangladesh's achievements ineconomic and social development have been
remarkable. These issues are discussed indetail inthe new Bangladesh CAS and highlighted
only briefly here. Progress on social measures has been encouraging. Gross primaryenrollment
rates are around 100percent, and the secondary enrollment rate has more than doubled since
independence. Bangladeshhas already met the MillenniumDevelopment Goal (MDG) on gender
parity in school enrollment at primaryand secondary levels. The childmortality rate has halved,
and life expectancy has increasedby more than 15 years. The decline ininfant and child
mortality rates, from 140 and95 respectively in 1972to about 60 and 30 in2000, was among the
fastest inthe developing world.

5.       Despite sustained progress, a formidable development challenge remains given the low
starting base. Almost halfthe population i s still under the poverty line, and childmalnutrition
and maternal mortality rates are among the highest inthe developing world. Over half the
country i s functionally illiterate, and despite expanded access to education, poor quality pervades
the system: less than 10percent o fgrade one pupils complete grade 12.

6.       Many o fthese challenges can, at least partially, be attributed to systemic problems with
governance. Corruption, the weak law and order situation, inadequate enforcement o f
regulations, and the government's limited capacity to deliver essential services are significant
constraints facing the system. Cognizant o f these problems, the Government i s beginning to
implement a broad-basedreform program to tackle governance issues. Reformsin core
governance areas such as public administration, tax administration, procurement and financial
management are being implemented and are likely to have long-term benefits. The Government's


                                                    I

recently completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) also lays out an ambitious agenda
o f systemic reforms.

7.       The Bank has supported a subset o fthe Government's reform agenda through a series o f
Development Support Credits (DSCs), the first three o f which were approvedby the Board in
2003,2004, and 2005.' The DSCs support initiatives focusing on deepening governance reforms
over time contributing to accelerating the rate o f economic growth, employment creation and
poverty reduction.

8.       An area which lies outside the immediate ambit ofthe DSCs is education sector reform.
While the broader reform programs supportedunder the DSCs are complementary, the education
sub-sector needs focused attention as the scope o freforms i s too large and deep to be covered
under anumbrella operation. Inview o fthis, education sector interventions andreformshave
been kept outside the DSCs and have been covered with deeper attention under alternative
investment and development support operations.

9.       While Bangladeshhas made impressive gains inaccess to education, governance
constraints have contributed to the poor quality o f education at all levels. Recognizingthat
improving quality inthe education sector i s imperative inorder to make substantial progress
towards achieving the MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs) and Bangladesh's Educationfor
All (EFA)targets, the Government has launched several reformmeasures to address this issue.

10.      At the primary education level, the Ministryof Primary andMass Education(MoPME) is
supported by a multi-donor group inimplementing the Primary Education DevelopmentProgram
I1(PEDP 11) a six-year program of support which aims to strengthen educational access, quality
              -
and efficiency. At the secondary and higher levels, reform efforts are being championed by key
policymakersinthe Ministry o f Education. The Ministryo f Education (MoE) developed a
medium-term framework for the secondary education sub-sector, which spelt out the targets to be
achieved for quality improvements, and the policy reformmeasures neededto achieve these
targets. This strategy i s currently beingupdated.

11.      The Governmentrequested World Bankassistance inorder to leverage support to implement
the reform agenda, andthe Bank supportedthe first phasethrough a single tranche programmatic
development support credit -Education Sector Development Support Credit I(ESDSC I).        The
objective o f the Credit was to support the Ministry o f Educationininstitutingand implementing
substantive policy reforms to improve governance, quality and relevance of secondary education.
The credit focused on (i)   greater transparency inthe use and allocation o fresources through
devolving and improving the efficiency o f the system with greater stakeholder participation; (ii)
initiating reforms to help develop a transparent and highquality teacher recruitment systembased
on agreed criteria and standards; and (iii)  enhancing competition intextbook production and
publishinginorder to reducerent-seeking andimprove quality o fpublications. Inaddition, the
Bank has also been working collaboratively with other donors, notably ADB, CIDA and EU, who
have also been supporting M o E to implement some o f the reformsproposedunder the medium-
term framework.

12.      The Government's commitment to reformshas been demonstrated by the successful
implementation of the f r s t phase of reforms under ESDSC I.Several steps havebeentaken to
enhance system efficiency. The Government has movedahead inllnkingfinancing o finstitutions to
performance, leading to the suspension o f government subsidies to the worst performinginstitutions.

 DSC I11was approvedbythe BoardonDecember 1,2005,


                                                    2

The composition andfunctions o f school management committees havebeenreformulatedso that
communities have more voice inthe monitoring o finstitutional activities. Improvedmonitoringof
the system has ledto better outcomes and reduced leakages. Financialmanagement system reforms
are under way leading to greater transparency and accountability inthe spendingand allocation o f
resources. Widespread dissemination o f information o fperformance o f institutions i s also being
undertaken.

13.       Interms ofimprovingteachereffectiveness, anon-GovernmentTeacher Registrationand
Certification Authority (NTRCA) hasbeenestablished which uses a standardized andtransparent
procedure to accredit potential teachersandi s expected to have apositive impact onreducingrent-
seelung andcollusion inthe hiringo fteachers.

14.       The process o ftextbook productionandpublicationhas also beenmade transparent and
competitive leadingto better quality textbooks being delivered to students ina timelymanner. These
reforms are also expected to lead to areduction intextbook costs.

15.       One year on, preliminarydatapoints to a positive impact o fthe first phase o freforms. Pass
rates inthe Grade 10standardized examinations rose to 50 percent from 37 percent. 20 percent o f
the worst performinginstitutions hadtheir subsidies suspended. One thirdof schoolmanagement
committees have already been electedbased on the newrules. The first standardized teacher
certification examinations were heldrecently. All textbooks at grades 11-12and40 textbooks at
grade 6-10 were published andproducedusingtransparent criteria andina competitive manner.
Textbooks are beingdeliveredto students on time.

16.       However, muchmoreremains to be done. The Governmenthasrequested the Bankfor
support indeepening the reform agendathrough implementingthe secondphase o freforms. This
credit will provide balance o f payments support to the Government to leverage reforms aimed at
raising the quality and cost-effectiveness o f service delivery, and at the same time, improving
equity inaccess.

17.       The remainder o fthis document i s organized as follows. Section I1provides an overview
o f the secondary education sector, including challenges that the sector was facing when the
Government decided to embark on their ambitious reform agenda. This i s followed in Section
I11by a discussion o fthe government's reformagendaineducation. Section IVdiscusses the
Bank'support to this reformagenda. Section V concludes with an assessment o f the benefits and
risksofthe operation. The medium-term policy reformmatrix is attached as Annex A.


                            II.Statusof theSecondaryEducationSector

 18.      The Ministry of Education (MoE) i s responsible for managing secondary, vocational and
tertiary education in Bangladesh. Within the secondary education system, there are three main
types o f schools: government schools (i.e,, publicly financed and service providers are public
sector employees), non-government schools which receive public funding, and government
recognized religious schools (madraashas) which receive public financing.'                   The overwhelming
majority o f secondary school pupils in Bangladesh (8 1percent) attend non-government schools.
T h i s reflects the pragmatic strategy o f GOBto expand the supply o f secondary schooling by


 There are also purely privately operated and financed religious schools. There i s no systematic information on such
schools given that they are not officially recognized by the government. The share o f secondary schools students
attending unrecognized religious schools is not exactly known.

involving the private sector in service provision, and stimulating demand for education by
subsidizing the cost o f schooling.        The system has been characterized by significant
achievements, but has also faced critical challenges. These are highlighted below (also see
Annex B for a more detailed description).

19.     Key achievements o f the sector include:
    0   Increased Demandfor Education and Gender Parity. Bangladesh has made significant
        progress in increasing secondary school enrollment. Enrollment at the secondary level
        has more than tripled since 1980 to over eight million. During the same time period
        female enrollment has increased seven-fold to over four million, which has led to gender
        parity. There i s also gender parity inenrollments at the primarylevel.
        Building public-private partnerships in the delivery of education. The growing demand
        for education has been accompanied by a doubling in the supply o f secondary schools
        over the same period. More than 98 percent o f secondary schools are managed and
        operated by the private sector with financial support from the government.
    0   Conditional Cash Transfers. The Female Secondary Stipends (FSS) program provides
        stipends and tuition waivers to females residing in non-municipal areas attending
        secondary schools - conditional upon maintainingregular attendance, passing grades, and
        remaining unmarried while in secondary school. This program has been effective in
        enhancing access. It i s estimated that an additional year o f the FSS increases female
        secondary enrollment by as muchas eight percent.

20.     While these achievements are impressive, challenges facing the sector engendered the
need for a comprehensive reformprogram that was launched by the government in 2003/4. The
main challenges facing the sector at that time included:
    0   Poor outcomes. Completion rates at the primarylevel are less than 65 percent. Less than
        40 percent o f the students passed the standardized examinations at grades 10 and 12. Out
        o f every 100 students that entered grade six, less than 10 completed grade 12 owing to
        high dropout and low completion rates. While completion rates in lower secondary
        (grades 6-8) were relatively high, there was a sharp drop in upper secondary school (9-
        10) completion rates, primarily due to the fact that while lower secondary school exams
        are school-based exams, upper secondary school exams are standardized at the national
        level -hence making it difficult to mask deficiencies inthe quality o f schooling.
    0   Thepoor were left out. Most poor children were unable to afford the (direct and indirect)
        expenses o f secondary schooling.       According to the 2000 Household Income and
        Expenditure Survey, at the secondary level, the ratio o f poor to non-poor students
        enrolled was below 30 percent and only 24 percent o f the public secondary education
        spending benefitedthe poor

21.     Poor system quality was directly related to the lack o f effective governance,
accountability and community oversight. In the past, there was little accountability o f either
teachers or school management committees to the pupils and communities they served. The
government was not playing a significant role in monitoring that providers were delivering the
services   properly.      Besides the need o f government            oversight  and enforcement,
parents/communities were also not delegated responsibilities to hold providers accountable.
Some key governance and accountability issues in the secondary school sub-sector were
identifiedas system management; teacher effectiveness; and textbooks and curriculum.


22.     Inthe areaofSystemManagement some ofthe key issues included:



                                                  4

         Enforcement of School Establishment and Registration criteria. Criteria which need to
         be met for a school to be registered and to receive government subsidies are fairly
         comprehensive. However, these criteria were rarely enforced due to lack o f government
         oversight capacity andpolitical interference andrent-seeking.
         Transparency in Financing of Schools. Once a school i s recognized, it receives monthly
         government subventions - mainly in the form o f teacher salaries. The government now
         finances 90 percent o f the salaries o f teaching staff in non-government schools. This
         payment scheme i s known as the Monthly Pay Order (MPO). To ensure that schools
         have an incentive to maintain highlevels o f performance, the subventions were supposed
         to be linked to performance criteria. However, these criteria were not clarified in the
         past, and in practice, till recently, once schools attained eligibility to receive the MFO,
         subsidies flowed regardless o fperformance.
         Planning Capacity and Community Oversight. The planning wing o f MoE was weak,
         and an important lacuna was the inadequate use o f data in policymaking. Inprinciple,
         there should be a strong institutional mechanism for community participation in the
         secondary educational system. School managing committees3 (SMCs) and Governing
         Bodies (GBs) were supposed to play a critical role in the hiring o f teachers and
         monitoring school performance. However, these bodies were sometimes influenced by
         politicians to dole out teaching jobs to unqualified relatives. This political interference
                      -
         led to an apparent lack o f interest o f genuine community members and guardians to
         actively participate inSMCs/GBs.
         Information Dissemination and Evaluation of Peij6ormance. The Bangladesh Bureau o f
         Educational and Information Statistics (BANBEIS), under M o E oversight, collects
         essential data on secondary and higher education.                 However, there was limited
         coordinationbetween BANBEISDSHE and the planningunit inMoE. Data collected by
         BANBEIS were rarely used for decision-making.                   There was also no systematic
         dissemination o f school-specific performance indicators to stakeholders.

23.      IntheareaofTeacherEffectiveness someofthekeyissuesincluded:

          Conditions of Employment.          Teachers in private schools were recruited directly by
          SMC's/GBs.       While the appointment procedures were clearly laid out in government
         rules and regulations, the hiringsystem, however, was open to abuse and rent-seeking. A
         combination o f the lack o f application o f standardized hiring criteria, and inadequate
         community/parental participation in SMC's/GB's contributed to frequent violation o f
         hiring practices.        Poorer, better-qualified applicants were overlooked in favor o f
         candidates who could contribute to the school's finances. Pressure was also put on the
          school to appoint relatives o f Managing Committee members/chairperson or those in
         powerful positions within the community.
          Teacher Training/Standards.         The National Academy o f Educational Management
          (NAEM) is responsible for overseeing teacher training.                However, owing to poor
         planning and limited oversight o f the public and private teacher training institutions, a
          significant number o f existing and new teachers didnot receive training.



24.      Inthe areaof Textbooksand Curriculum some ofthe keyissues included:

 SMC's are required inall recognizednon-government secondary schools (grades 6-10) and GB's inhigher secondary
schools/intermediate colleges - grades 11-12.


                                                     5

    e   Effectiveness of National Curriculum and TextbookBoard (NCTB). NCTB i s responsible
        for developing curriculum and publishingand distributing standard textbooks. Its two
        professional wings - the curriculum andtextbook units, respectively      - correspond to these
        two purposes. As the curriculum and textbook wings operate in different fields, they
        require specialist staff with completely different skills. In Bangladesh, the demarcation
        between the two wings was blurred and there was a substantial degree o f overlap - with
        the curricula wing staff often performingthe duties o f the textbook wing.
    e   Transparency in Manuscript Approval and Textbook Production. The manner in which
        NCTB evaluated textbook manuscripts was not transparent. Criteria and ratings in the
        selection process were not made public, nor were they made available to the author
        submittinga manuscript. Textbookpublishingfor the secondary sector was also not open
        to competition    - publishing and  printing were undertaken by firms chosen by NCTB
        without recourse to a competitive process. The lack o f competition led to rent-seeking,
        and was responsible for poor textbook quality, high production costs, and unavailability
        o ftextbooks to schools ina timely manner.

25.     As noted inSection N,reformsundertakenbythe government and supportedthroughthe
ESDSC series o f development policy credits are leading to improvements in system governance
and are reversing the poor trends inperformance.


          III.TheGovernment'sReform AgendaandBankandDonorSupport

TheMedium-Term Macro Framework

26.     As detailed out inDSC I11document, Bangladeshi s satisfactorily implementing an
adequate macro policy framework. The Government's medium-term macroeconomic framework,
commits to fiscal and monetaryprudence and deepening structural reforms. The framework
envisages an acceleration inthe rate o f economic growth     - from 5.4 percent inFY05 to 6.5
percent inFY06 and 7.0 percent inFY08       - which would require a significant higher level o f
investment and more efficient investment decisions. Fiscal projections are consistent with
Bangladesh's reformneeds, with increased revenue mobilization andbetter prioritized
expenditures being central elements o f the budget strategy over the medium term.

27.     The Government has maintainedan adequate macroeconomic policy framework which i s
conducive to growth and poverty reduction. Macroeconomic prudence was maintaineddespite
heightened exogenous pressures due to sharp global commodity price increases and the 2004
floods. Fiscal deficit was kept at 3.5 percent o f GDP inFY05 and the inflation rate was contained
at 6.5 percent for the year inthe face o f emerginginflationary pressures. Rising cost of oil and
other commodity prices contributedto a sharp increase inimports, puttingpressure on the current
account. However, foreign concessional lending and other capital flows broadly offset the
current account deficit, leaving gross official reserves unchanged at around $3 billion. Increasing
demand for foreign exchange put the taka under pressure, resulting in 10percent depreciation
against the dollar (5 percent inreal terms) since July 2004. The IMF's PRGF also remains on
broadly on track, and the 3rd PRGFreview was completedby the IMFBoard on June 29,2005.

28.     The medium-term expenditure framework i s expected to continue Bangladesh's long
standing tradition of emphasizing investment inthe social sectors. A relatively high60 percent of
total expenditure i s on infrastructure, education, health, social safety nets and rural development
(Table 1).


                                                    6

Note: Discrepancy with total due to a number of small items
Source: Ministry of Finance

ThePRSP

29.      This medium-term framework i s detailed out inthe Government's recently drafted
(September 2005) Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper (PRSP), titled "Unlocking the Potential:
National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction." The PRSP has benefitedfrom a
comprehensive participatoryprocess, including consultations at the regional levels with
representations from a wide spectrum o f the society. The Government has owned the PRSP
process, welcoming the donors' interest but managing and financing the process almost entirely
on its own.

30.       The mainnational level development goals set by the PRSP are: (i)       employment
generation; (ii) nutrition; (ii)maternal health; (iv) quality education (at primary, secondary, and
tertiary levels); (v) sanitation and safe water; (vi) criminaljustice; and (vii) local governance. In
setting these goals, it acknowledges Bangladesh's encouraging development record but cautions
against complacency and slippages inareas where progress has been good. Espousing a broad
definition o fpoverty, including humandeprivations inincome, food security, quality o f life, and
vulnerability, the PRSP seeks to address it through a strategically prioritizedpolicy framework
that has pro-poor growth, humandevelopment, and governance as its mainpillars. It aims to
unlock the full potential o fthe country through a sensible mix o fpublic action, private initiatives,
and community mobilization.

ThePRSP and theMedium-Term StrategVfor Education

3 1.     Educationi s an important element o f the PRSP. As input to the PRSP, over the past two
years, both MoPME and M o E have been developingand implementingtheir medium-term
strategies for primary and secondary education respectively. The focus o f the strategies i s on
enhancing the quality o f education and ensuring equitable access. The strategies provide policy
directions, specify targets, andrecommend actions required to attain these targets.

32.      On the primaryeducation side, MoPME, supported by 11development partners including
IDA (with ADB as the lead development partner), beganimplementing the Primary Education



                                                    7

Development Program -PEDP 11in2004. This programrepresents MoPME's vision for primary
education till 2009 and i s designed to provide a policy framework and implementation planfor
the development o f primary education. PEDP11's focus i s on implementingstrategies to improve
the quality o f primaryeducation as well as enhancing access for the disadvantaged. The specific
objectives o f the program are to: (a) improve the quality o f teaching and learning, andenhance
student achievement; (b) enhance access to schooling for the disadvantaged and provide
incentives to teachers to perform better; (c) strengthen planning and management of primary
education; and (d) establish a nation-widemonitoring and evaluation system. At the same time
the Government has begun working closely with communities and NGO's to assist the setting up
o f community schools inparticularly disadvantaged areas to provide accessto educational
opportunities for those hardto reach, through the IDA supportedReaching Out o f School
Children (ROSC) project.

33.     With respect to secondary education, the MoE convened a 51-member expert committee
in2002/3 to recommendareasfor reforminthe sector. The committee's recommendations were
aimed at establishing a cost-effective, highquality and equitable education system through
governance reforms. To flesh out these recommendations, M o E commissioned in-depth studies
inselected areas. Basedonthis information, aswell asrelevant work undertakenbydevelopment
partners, M o E finalized its medium-term framework. The development o f this framework
benefited from an extensive range o f consultations/workshops with government officials and
other stakeholders at the central, zonal and district levels.

34.     Recognizingthat a major bottleneck to improving delivery o f secondary educationhas
been poor governance, a full reform program has been designed. It focuses on improving
accountability and ensuring greater transparency inthe management o f the sector and the use and
allocationo fresources. Some of the main elements o f this strategy are highlightedinBox 1:4

35.     As discussed inthe next section, many o fthese reforms have been supportedby the Bank
under ESDSC Iand the proposedESDSC I1operation.




 TheMedium TermPrioritiesfor TheDevelopment of Secondary and Higher Education in Bangladesh. Ministryof
Education,GovernmentofBangladesh(2003).


                                                   8

                                                    Box 1: MoE's Reform Agenda 2003-08
                                                                                    -
Some ofthe key elements o f MoE's proposedreformagendaare summarizedhere. They includereformsthat have already beenundertaken inthe
first phase, reformsthat are currently underwayinthe second phase, andreformsthat are plannedto be undertaken.

System Management

Reform actions completed:
   Establishment/equity Finalizing criteriagoverningthe establishmentandregistrationo f institutions;
                        -
0  Financing -Rigorousenforcementof amendedMPO criteria;
   AdministratiolJCapacity Building, Devolution and Participation -Setting up districtiupazillacommittees; amending compositiono f SMCsiGBs
   to ensuregreater community participation;

Reforms Underway:
   Establishment/equity - Contractingout evaluationofpotentialnew institutions to private providers; establishingnew schools inunderserved
   areas, pilotingmeans-basedstipendschemes;
   Financing -Financing of public vocationalinstitutions linkedto performance in examinations;
0  AdministrationlCapacity Building, Devolution and Participation -Upgradingof planningcapacity at all levels; 30% of SMCiGBselectedusing
   revisedrules;
   Monitoring andEvaluation -Enhancingcapacity of BANBEIS, disseminationo f informationon schoolquality, institutingexpenditure tracking
   surveys and stipendevaluations;
   Financial Management Improvingfinancialmanagementat the ministrylevelthrough improvedcontrols and increasedattentionto
                           -
   reconciliationandfollow up on audit queries andPAC recommendations

Actionsplanned in the next 2-3 years:
   Establishment/equify -Actions to raise enrollmentby 50% inunderservedareas; undertakingschoolmappingexercise andexpendituretracking
   survey, outcomesto be usedby policymakersto improvepolicies/programs;
   Financing -DesigningandImplementing student-basedfinancing for secondarylevel institutions; establishment o fNationalVocational Training
   Board(NVTB) and trainingfund to finance well performingtraininginstitutions;
   Administration/Capacity Building, Devolution and Participation -Finalizing action planfor devolution of functionsto districtsiupazillas; 100%
   of SMCs electedusingrevisedrules;
   Monitoring and Evaluation - Systematizingschoolmappingexerciseundertakenby BANBEIS; systematizingself-reporting o f datafrom
   schools; continuing disseminationof informationon schoolquality, expendituretracking surveys, andthird party programmonitoringand
   evaluation; monitoringdropout rates especially at grades 8 and 10.

Teacher Effectiveness

Reform actions completed:
   Employment -Enactment and establishment of autonomousnon-governmentTeacher RegistrationandCertificationAuthority; MakingNTRCA
   fully functional; approvalof pensionscheme for teachers;
   Teacher Training-Ensuringacommon set of standards for teachers inpublic andprivate institutions;.

Reforms Underway:
   Employment -Administering the certificationexaminationsfor potential teachers.
   Teacher Training - Finalizingfive year plan for teacher trainingfor in-serviceteachers as well as new teachers;

Actionsplanned in the next 2-3years:
   Employment -Instituting incentive scheme for teachers; ensuringthat all new teachers have beentestedby Teacher Registrationand Certification
   Authority
   Teacher Training - Certifyingall eligibleteacher training institutionsbasedon agreedcriteriaandtraining and certifying 60% untrainedteachers
   now within the system.

Curriculum and Textbook Reforms

Reform actions completed:
   NCTB- Developingaction planfor NCTB restructuring and institutingfunctional separation o f its two wings;
   Textbookapproval andprivatization - Institutingtransparent criteriafor manuscriptevaluation; openingup textbook productionfor grades 6-8 to
   competition.

Actions Underway:
0  NCTB -Revision of curriculumto make it more relevant;
   Textbookapproval andprivatization - 100%of textbook productionfor grades 6-10 producedcompetitively.

Actionsplanned in the next 2-3years:
0  NCTB - Curriculumwing ofNCTB exclusively focusing on curriculumissues;
0  Textbookapproval andprivatization - 100% oftextbook productionfor grades 6-10 producedcompetitively.

                                                                        9

  36.      Analysis has also demonstrated that the critical constraint to improving the system i s not
  that o fresources, but o f ensuring that strategies and reforms are putinplace to enhance the cost-
  effectiveness o f resource utilization. In2003/4 the government spent over $500 million on
  secondary education (revenue and development budget combined). Under the base case scenario,
  thebudget will rise to about $630 millionby 2008/9 (Table 2, and for a detailed analysis look at
  Annex G).

  37.      Simulations regarding the costs of implementingreforms aimed at enhancing the quality
  and governance o f the system (while increasing enrollments), show that by 2008/9, the system
  will require a total investment o f about $616 million (details inAnnex G). This is within the
  budget projections, implyingthat financial sustainability i s not likely to be an issue.


                                                       200314   200415  200516   2006ll    200718 200819
Total secondary educationbudget -base case
scenario                                               0.529     0.543   0.565    0.584     0.607    0.631
IResource Requirements (based on simulations)        I 0.520   1 0.539 I 0.558 I  0.577   I 0.596   I 0.616 '
  Source: Team's calculations

  Bank and Donor Strategy in Education

  BankLending and Non-Lending Program

  38.      The Bank's assistance strategy ineducation has been based on Government priorities, the
  Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, and complementarity with other donors. The focus o fthe
  Bank's lendingprogramhas been on increasing access to basic and secondary education,
  achieving gender parity at the primary and secondary levels, and improving the quality o f
  education. Currently the Bank has five projects inits portfolio which aim to support these
  objectives -PrimaryEducationDevelopment Program11,Post Literacy and Continuing
  EducationI,   Reaching Out o f School ChildrenProject, Female Secondary School Assistance
  Project 11,and the series o f Education Sector Development Support Credits.

  39.      The lendingprogram has beenbased on extensive analytical work conducted by the
  Bank. A sound understanding o f issues facing the education sector and strategies to enhance
  education quality was provided by a comprehensive education sector review conducted in2OOOU5
  Policy notes have beenprepared inareas such as improving secondary education quality, teacher
  effectiveness, textbook and curriculumpolicy, vocational education and training reform, andlinks
  between secondary and higher education. Furthermore, the Bank i s also providing technical
  assistance to the sector to conduct rigorous impact evaluations o f its programs - especially
  stipendprograms at the primaryand secondary levels. The WorldBank also undertook a Public
  Expenditure Review and a Poverty Assessment in2002, which highlightedconstraints to
  improving access to and quality o f education and identifiedpolicy priorities for various sub-
  sectors.6 This analytical work has informed the issues highlighted in Section I1above and has
  been usedby M o E for the development o f its MediumTerm Framework.




   Bangladesh Education Sector Review: VolumesI-III.World Bank (2000).
   Bangladesh Public ExpenditureReview. WorldBank(2002) andPoverty in Bangladesh: Building on Progress.
  WorldBank (2002).


                                                      10

40.      Analytical work has also been done to develop sound environmental policies and
guidelines that are also applicable to the education sector. A draft Country Environmental
Analysis (CEA), jointly producedby the Ministryo fEnvironment and Forest (MoEF) and World
Bank, was discussed at a workshop held inJuly, 2005. The CEA focuses on improving the health
o f the poor, ensuring the sustainability o f the natural resources on which they depend, and
strengthening institutions for environmental management. The CEA also examines the actions
necessary to strengthen environmental management, and identifies buildingthe capacity o f the
Department o f Environment (DOE)as essential to better control o f the rapidly escalating urban
and industrial environmental challenges. Higher priority needs to be given to implementation o f
the DOE'S   Strategic Plan, which focuses both on improving governance through increased
transparency inenvironmental decision-making, and on providingresources to expand DOE'S
capacity once its quality has improved.

41.      The new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY06-09,which i s beingcirculated at
about the same time as this report, aims to align itself with the country's aspirations as laid out in
the PRSP document.' The CAS focuses on the key issues o f governance as a cross-cutting theme
for the two main pillars/objectives o f the strategy: improving the investment climate and
empoweringthe poor. The CAS reiterates the importance o f consolidating gains inhuman
development as critical for Bangladesh to realize its aspiration to reduce poverty substantially
within a generation. The CAS states that notwithstandingthe impressive gains ineducation,
especially inaccess, improving quality remains a critical challenge - and should be the focus o f
the Bank's assistance to Bangladesh.

42.      In linewith government's PRSP, IDA'Scountry assistance strategy, and the framework
o f reforms envisioned inthe education sector, the Bank's strategy aims to ensure that progress in
access are supported by quality improvements to ensure sustainable gains and enhanced levels o f
efficiency inthe education system. It focuses on policies and interventions that provide
incentives to improve the governance of the system. ESDSC Iand the proposed ESDSC I1credit
represent major steps inthis direction.

Collaborationwith OtherDonors

43.      The Bank has continued to work inclose partnership with other development partners in
support o f the education sector inBangladesh. Onthe primary side, many development partners'
are working collaboratively with GOBinimplementing PEDP 11.

44.      In the area of secondary education, smoothimplementationo fthe Government's reform
program has been aided by the collaborative assistance being providedby development partners.
IDA'Stechnical andprogrammatic credit support to the reformprogramis reinforcedthrough the
support providedby ADB and CIDA who are implementinginvestment operations focused on
teacher development and training, and curriculum development. Inadditionthe EUprovided
support for teacher training, andNORAD for the secondary stipend program. These operations
implement critical interventions proposed under the medium-tern reform agenda o f the
government and synergize with the reforms supported by IDA under the series o f programmatic
education sector credits.


'With  the objectiveofbetter leveragingits programs, the Bankhas preparedthe new CASjointly with the ADB, DfID
andJapan. The last CASwas discussedbythe Boardon December 12,2000, andaCASProgressReporton June 19,
2003. The new CAS is scheduledto be discussedby the Boardon March9, 2006, jointly with this operation.
  The developmentpartners supporting GOBinPEDP I1include-ADB (lead developmentpartner), AUSAID, CIDA,
DBD, EU, IDA, JICA, the Netherlands,NORAD, SIDA, andUNICEF.


                                                         11

    45.       IDA'Sprogramof support has also beeninformedby analytical work on secondary and
    vocational education conducted by other donor agencies (e.g. JICA, EUandADB). This work
    also points to the lack o f good governance inthe system as a key constraint to improving quality.


                      I K IDA's Support to the Medium-Term Reform Agenda

    46.       The key objective o f IDA'Ssupport has beento assist M o E inimplementing substantive
    policy reforms to enhance governance and improve the quality and relevance o f secondary
    education. Three key pillars o f IDA's support to the Government's reformprogram are inthe
    areas o f system management, teacher effectiveness, and textbooks. The reforms proposedunder
    thisprogram are consonant withthereformso fthebroader DSC series which focuses on actions
    that improve overall governance, stimulate economic growth and reduce poverty.

    47.       A number o fpolicy reform measures supported by ESDSC Ihave had apositive impact
    on improving governance and accountability inthe system (see Table 3 for a summary o f reform
    actions and initial impacts).


Area                              ReformActions                                  Initial Impact

                         `3
Transparency in          o Developinga fundingformula         3Fundingformula designed andbeing
financing o f               which links subventions for        implemented. In2004, 1300 institutions served
subventions                 schools (MPO system) to            notice regarding suspension o f subventions.
                            performance instandardized          Subventions o f 226 o f worse performing
                            examinations                       institutions suspended in2005.
                                                              o 1962 schools which showed a significant
                                                               improvement inperformance inSSC (grade 10)
                                                                examinations, as comparedto 2003, received
                                                                financial incentive awards.
                                                              o Passrates inSSC examrise to 50% in2004 from
                                                                a baseline o f 37% in2003. Pass rates inHSC
                                                                examinations rise to 48% in2004 from a baseline
                                                                o f 40% in2003.
Enhanced equity in       o Identify `overserved' and          o No subventions providedto any new schools
access                      `underserved' upazilas and          being established in115 `overserved' upazilas
                            provide no subventions to new     o Institutions beingestablished in60 underserved
                            schools being established in        areas.
                            `overserved' upazilas
Transparency in          o Issuingadministrative order        o BeginningDecember 2005, allnine education
establishmenthegistra       agreeing to contract out task o f   boards have hired competitively selected private
tion o f institutions       evaluating the eligibility o f      contractors to evaluate school registration.
                            new non-government                  Impact o f this reform will be evaluated over the
                            schools/colleges to receive         next 12 months.
                            government recognitionand
                            subventions
Improved                 o Establishment o f district and     o Teacher absenteeismin2004 down to 11%from a
accountability              upazila oversight committees;       baseline o f 17%
through monitoring       o Reformulation o frole and          o 20% reduction inineligible girls receiving
o f expenditures and        composition o f SMCs/GBs with       stipends since 2003
outcomes                    increasingparticipation from      o Proportiono fstudents requiredto paybribes to
                            parentslwomen;                      get full stipend amount drops to 11%in2004
                         o Enhancedmonitoring o fteacher        from 30% in2002.
                            attendance and stipend            o Significant decline incheating instandardized



                                                          12

Area                               ReformActions                               Initial Impact
                            recipients                         examinations;
                         o Public disseminationo fresults    o 30% o f SMCs/GBs elected using new procedures.
                            on standardized examinations       Impact onperformance will bejudged over time
                                                               as their capacity i s strengthened;
                                                             o Individuals chair no more thanfour SMCsiGBs
                                                               down fiom a maximumo f 50 in2003.
Strengthening            o Establishbudget monitoring        o Improvedtransparency and accountability.
financial                   committee;                       o Reconciliation ofaccounts inall DDO's
management to            o Improvereconciliation o f           continued
ensure efficient            accounts;                        o Backlog o faudit objectionsbeing reduced.
spending o f resources   o Settle audit objections
Enhancing Teacher Ej`fectiveness..    .
Transparency in          o Cabinet approval for NTRCA        o 61,000 applicants take lst   certification
teacher recruitment                                            examination inDecember 2005, withclose to 50
                                                               percent qualified. Impact o f this reform will be
                                                               evaluated over the next 12 months.
Textbook and Curriculum Reforms.      ..
Separationin             o Action plandrafted for            o Impact o fthis reformwillbe evaluated. It is
functions o ftextbook       reorganization of NCTB             expectedthat this reformwill leadto textbook
and curriculum wing         including separation o f           and curriculum wing performing functions to
o f NCTB,                   curriculum and textbook wings      their comparative advantage
Competitionin            o Development oftransparent         o Competitive process followed for productionand
textbook production         criteria for textbook manuscript   publication o f 40 textbooks at secondary level and
at secondary level          approval                           all textbooks at the higher secondary (grades 11-
                         o Cabinet approves planto allow       12) level.
                            competition inproduction o f     o Quality o ftextbook paper assessedto have
                            textbooks                          improved;
                                                             o Textbooks delivered to students ontime in2005

                       I                                       academic year.

    48.      The positive impact o f these reformshas been facilitatedby a communicationcampaign
    launchedby M o E with support fiom stakeholders at different levels. The objective o f this
    campaign has been to increase public awareness, generate public support, and advocate
    government and stakeholders' actions to implement its Medium-Term Strategy for secondary
    education.

    49.      However significant challenges to improving transparency, accountability, school quality
    and accessto the poor still remain. For example - greater transparency needs to be introduced
    into the process o f school registration and establishment, the capacity o f SMC's needs to be
    strengthened inorder for them to perform their monitoring functions effectively, an effective
    monitoring and evaluation system that provides feedback to policymakersneeds to be developed,
    and programs needto be developed to attract the poor to secondary education. An appropriate
    teacher training policy has to be put inplace which will lead to an improvement inthe quality o f
    teachers and teaching. Finally, the quality o f curriculumneeds to be improved if students are to
    learn skills that will benefit them inthe labor market or inhigher education.

    50.      The positive initial impact o f the reform measures supported by ESDSCIsuggestthat
    supporting and deepening the reform agenda can play a critical role inaddressing the remaining
    challenges. The proposed ESDSC I1aims to support the second phase o f the government's
    medium-term reform agenda anddeepen the reforms inthe three key areas o f system
    management, teacher effectiveness andtextbooks.




                                                       13

51.      The reforms supported by the program are described below, focusing on actions
underway inthe second year o f the program, the expected impact o f these reforms andproposed
future actions inthe thirdprogramyear and beyond.

System Management

52.      The objectives inthis area are to establish greater transparency inthe use and allocation
o f resources to schools and colleges, increase the accountability o f non-government institutions to
fundingauthorities and local stakeholders, and develop amore devolved and efficient system o f
management o f the education system, with greater stakeholder involvement.

Improved enforcement in establishmenthegistration of Schools

53.      Given its low capacity to effectively monitor secondary school establishment and
registration, MoE i s implementingan approach where competitively selected independent private
sector service providers are being entrusted with the responsibilityo f evaluating the readiness of
schools/colleges for establishment or recognition, based on criteriathat have been established by
MoE and agreed to with IDA.

54.      Actions taken under ESDSC11: While there has been delay instarting upthis activity

boards inthe country - six regional education boards, the madrasahboard and the
owing to the coordination requiredto initiate this activity simultaneously by all the education

vocational/technical education board - the first set o f competitively selected service providers
were hired inNovember 2005. Serviceprovider reports will become the basis for school
establishment and registration.

55.      Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: Thirdparty evaluations o fthe
performance o f these service providers will be undertaken over the coming months to judge the
effectiveness o f this approach, andthe design will be modified accordingly, ifnecessary. These
reforms will be considered successful ifthey lead to a reduction inrent-seeking inthe
establishment and registration o f schools, and ensure that only schools that meet prescribed
criteria can be established and registered to receive MPO subventions.

Greater transparency inJinancing schools

56.      A fundingformula which linksfinancing o f schools to their performancehas been
developed and i s beingrigorously implemented. The MPO systemhas been revisedto clearly
linksubventions for teachers' salaries to outcomes on standardized examinations ingrades 10and
 12. Poorly performing schools (with less than 40 percent students passing standardized
examinations ingrades 10 and 12) are being given a two-year period inwhich to improve their
performance, failing which the subventions will be suspended. Given that over 60 percent o f the
schools would fall into this category, and stopping MPOs for these schools would seriously
disruptthe secondary education system, the Government is implementingthis order gradually.
Simultaneously, the government has developed and i s implementing an incentivepackage for
well performing schools.

57.      Actions taken under ESDSC11: (i) o fthe worst performing schools (those inwhich
                                              1300
less than 10percent o f the students graduated) were informed that their subventions would be
stopped unless they showed an improvement inperformance, and 226 o f these institutions, which
showed no improvement intheir performance inthe 2004 annual examination had their MPOs
suspended in2005. Inspite o f this, the government has ensured that students ininstitutionswhose


                                                  14

MPO hadbeen suspended did not lose educational opportunities. Inmost cases, these students
have moved to neighboringbetter performing secondary schools which havebeen able to
accommodate them. Evidence shows that there has not been a decline inenrollment owing to this
reform. This will continue to be monitoredcarefully inthe future and the linkbetween financing
and performance i s extended to other poorly performing institutions; and (ii)                beginningin2005,
an incentive award has been instituted which provides financial rewards to schools where the
number of students passingthe standardized Grade 10 (SSC)examination increases by 20 percent
as compared to the previous year. 1962 schools have qualified andreceived this award in2005.
Institutions are utilizing this awardto remunerate teachers for improved performance, and
improve the quality o f classroom teachingAearning materials.

58.      Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: Over the coming year, the performance o f
schools will be closely monitored to evaluate the effectiveness o f measures linkingfinancing to
performance and revisions to the system will be proposed and implemented accordingly. These
unprecedented actions, initiatedby MoE and complemented by local level meetings and
informationcampaign, have sent a powerful message throughthe system about the importance
attached to improving systemic quality. This seems to have hadthe desired impact -pass rates in
the standardized SSC (grade 10) examinations and HSC (grade 12) examinations have risen (see
Table 3). It i s anticipated that ifthese reforms continue havingpositive impacts, these rates will
rise to about 55 percent by 2008.
      Table 4: Divisional Distribution of under-served (-1or over-
                             served (+) Institutions                              Enhanced equity in access

   Division                            Numbersof institutions                      59.       A concernis that
                            School       College       Madrasha       Vocational   enforcing criteriaregarding
                                                                                   school financing may leadto
   Barisal                     611             52             539             -71  greater inequity inaccess,
   Chittagong                 -276              5             -92            -145  with poorer areasbeing

   Dhaka                      -406            -15            -422            -235  adversely affected. M o E has
                                                                                   taken several measures to
   Khulna                      702            180             115            -109  alleviate this problem and
   Rajshahi                   1714            462             736             -60  make more resources
   Sylhet                     -221            -23            -188             -98 available for establishing
                                                                                   schools inunderserved
   Bangladesh                 2124            661             745            -718  upazilas. A school mapping
   :ource: BANBEIS,August, 2004                                                    exercise was undertaken to
                                                                                   identify `under-served' and
`overserved' upa~ilas.~Table 4 shows the excess (and shortage of) secondary level institutionsin
the six Divisions o f Bangladesh. This distribution has been further broken down by upazila,
based on which MoE has identified 115 over-served upazilas subventions are not being provided
to any new schools established inover-served upazilas

60.      Actions taken under ESDSC11: (i)             Secondary schools are being set up in60 o f the most
economically disadvantaged and underserved areas which do not have secondary schools with
support from the government; and (ii)pilot means tested programhas been designed under
                                                a
which poor secondary school age students are identifiedby school management committees and
village level officials on the basis o f objective criteria, and given a stipend to attend secondary
school. This program complements the existing female secondary stipendprogram inBangladesh


  `Overserved' upazillas have a significantly higher density o f schools than would be prescribed based on the
regulations for the establishment of new non-government schools and colleges.


                                                           15

(which i s not means tested). The value o f the means tested stipend i s based on the opportunity
cost o f going to school and i s roughly twice inamount to the stipend providedunder the female
secondary stipends program

61.       Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: Based on thirdparty evaluations o f the
pilot in2006, M o E will develop a comprehensive strategy and a set o f criteriato target poor areas
andattract more poor childreninto school. Given that the quality o f schooling inunderserved
areas i s especially weak, M o E will also develop a strategy to raise performance levels o f these
schools.

62.       As a result ofthese reforms, a greater proportion ofresources are expected to flow to
poorer areas. Initial figures indicate that in2005, the proportiono fpublic resources going to
underserved upazilas increased by about five percent. Furthermore, it i s anticipated that the
means tested program will lead to a more equitable distribution o f educational opportunities -the
proportion o fresources beingaccessedby the poor i s expected to rise by about 10percentage
points by 2008.

Improved accountability through tighter monitoring of outcomes and expenditures

63.       Importantreforms have been initiatedwhich have ledto a significant increase inthe
emphasis on monitoring, evaluation and the dissemination o f information.

64.       Actions taken under ESDSC11:(i) key component o fMoE's reform agenda i s to ensure
                                              A
that there i s a significant reduction inthe misallocationo f resources. To better understandthe
situation, M o E undertook a pilot expenditure tracking survey (under the Financial Management
ReformProgramProject). The survey was undertaken in28 upazilas and assessedwhether inputs
were present on the ground (e.g. whether teachers on the payroll were present inschools), and
compared expenditures at the school level with nationallevel data and financial statements
audited by the office o f the Comptroller and Auditor General for a range o f unitswhere direct
comparisons were possible. The survey found that while there were no major discrepancies on
expenditures, there were some instances o fmalpractices inthe system - e.g. schools had to make
`speed' payments to get resources, teachers were absent, and there were still a significant number
o f girls who do not meet eligibility criteria were receiving stipends. M o E has respondedby
significantly enhancing system monitoringby district andupazila level officials and involving the
school management committees (thisi s described inmore details below) inmonitoring activities
at the school level; and (ii)  a rigorous evaluation o f the female stipendprogram i s being
undertaken with a view to improvingprogram design and effectiveness.

65.       Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: Bymid-2006, M o Ewill develop strategies
to strengthen the data monitoring system o f BANBEIS ina consultative manner involving MoE,
BANBEIS, the educationboards andDistrict andUpazila Education Officers. These include
strategies for: improving the veracity and consistency o f annual self-reported school data;
bringingabout consistency inschool andregional codes inorder to linkdata on school
characteristics with pupil-level examination scores (see Annex C). By 2007, a pilot assessment
will be initiatedfor students ingrades 9 and 12basedon internationallyrecognized assessments
(such as TIMSS) to assist inbenchmarking o f Bangladeshi students. Inaddition, the results o f
program impact evaluations will be usedto improve program design.

66.       Better quality data and evaluations o f programs are expected to lead to the systematic use
o f data for policy purposes. Benchmarkingthe performance o f students usingstudent
assessmentswill serve two functions for policymakers- first, it will allow them to observe


                                                   16

whether the reforms beingput inplace are leadingto better test scores over time, and second, it
will also allow them to examine whether Bangladesh is closingthe performance gap with better
performing countries and the reasons underlying the gap. Tighter monitoringmeasure are already
having a positive impact as discuss inTable 3- there has beenreductioninthe number o f
ineligible girls receiving stipends, the proportion of students havingto pay rents to teachers in
order to get their full stipend amounts has declined, and there has also been a reductioninteacher
absenteeism. Inaddition, there has also been a significant decline incheating instandardized
examinations.

Greater participation of communities in school managementand devolution of authority

67.      Inthe current centralized structure, itisimperative that School Management Committees
(SMCs) or College GoverningBodies (GBs) be empowered, as they are the only entities that exist
at the local level to monitor schools, attendance o f teachers and students, upkeep o f physical
infkastructure, and performance inexaminations. Reforms have been aimed at streamlining the
composition and strengtheningthe role o f SMCs/GBs with greater emphasis placed on the
monitoring role (Box 2 and Annex D). District and upazilla advisory committees were also
establishedwith the authority to monitor school performance and ensure public disclosure of
information (e.g. SSC pass rates, teacher absenteeism, class sizes, etc.) related to school quality.

68.      Actions taken under ESDSC11:Elections to all SMCs/GBs taking place beginning in
2005 follow revisedregulations. Given that SMCs/GBs are elected every three years,
approximately one-third o f these bodies were elected in2005 usingthe new rules.




69.      Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: By 2007 all SMCs/GBs will be elected
usingnewrules and MoEwill embark on an extensive programo f capacity buildingaimed at
empowering SMCs/GBs and makingthem fully aware of their rights, roles and responsibilities.




                                                   17

70.      These reforms -alongwith reforms on teacher hiringdiscussed below - are expected to
significantly reduce the problem o f "elite capture" o f andpolitical interference inthese bodies
and engender greater community participation inthe runningo f schools and colleges. However,
the impact o fthese reforms will take time to materialize. Initialindications are positive-these
bodies also seem to be taking their new monitoringroles seriously - as demonstratedthrough
declines inteacher absenteeism, andinthe number o f ineligible girls receiving stipends. Elite
capture i s also likely to be reducedwith no individualbeing a chairman o f more than four
institutions - as opposed to many cases where politicianswere chairing over 50 institutions till
2004. However, greater emphasis needs to be given to capacity buildingo f SMCs/GBs to ensure
that they can perform their functions effectively.

Teacher Effectiveness

71.      The objective o f this reform is to develop a transparent and high-quality system o f
teacher recruitment and teacher training guided by agreed criteria and standards. While it i s
difficult to improve the quality o f all teachers inthe short-term, it i s possible to begin tackling the
problem o f teacher absenteeism, stop poorly qualified teachers from entering the system, and
establish a more effective system o fpre and in-service training.

Transparency in employment

72.      To ensure that standardized and transparent criteria are adhered to inthe recruitment o f
teachers, the Government has embarked on a major reform which aims to rapidly improve the
quality o f the flow o f teachers entering the system.

73.      Actions taken under ESDSCII:Parliament has approved setting up a Non-government
Teacher Registration and Certification Authority (NTRCA) which would screen and certify a
pool o f individuals eligible to be hired as teachers innon-government secondary and higher
secondary institutions. While SMWGBs, on behalf o f the communities, would still recruit the
teachers, it would be mandatory for them to choose fiom this pool inorder to qualify for
government subventions. The first set o f examinations for the potentialpool o f incoming
teachers was held inNovember-December 2005, inwhich 61,000 applicants participated.

74.      Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: All new teachers will now behired from
the pool ofNTRCA certifiedteachers and athirdparty evaluation o fNTRCAregistrationand
certificationprocess will be completed by 2006.

75.      Recommendations o f this evaluation will be implemented. The impact o f these reforms
will needto be studied closely over the next 12months, especially to evaluate whether certified
applicants are meetingbasic entry level standards, and whether SMCs/GBs are hiringfrom this
pool o f certified teachers. Given that one o f the maincauses o f `elite capture' o f SMCs/GBs i s
that rents are being obtained inthe process o f teacher recruitment, it i s also expected that this
reformwill reduce the incentives for local elites to undulyinfluence the composition o f
SMCs/GBs.

Improved Teacher Quality

76.      Realizingthe importanceo f well-trained teachers, M o E developed a comprehensive
reformpackage for its teacher training system, which was approved by the Cabinet in2005, and




                                                    18

i s now being implemented." Inaddition, incentives are being providedto retain teachers into the
system, andto upgrade their skills.

77.       Actions taken under ESDSC11: (i) National Academy o f EducationManagement
                                                  The
(NAEM)hasbeenformally identifiedasthe apex secondary education teacher training
organization. NAEMhas been giventhe responsibility to develop teacher training policies and to
coordinate and regulate teacher training institutions, and has developed a core framework o f
teacher standards. While NTRCA will be responsible for certifying the pool o f incoming
teachers, NAEMwill ensure that teachers within the system are providedtraining to continually
upgrade their skills; and (ii)   new headteachers are undergoing compulsory initial training through
NAEMon appointment. All serving untrainedheadteachers will also undergo compulsory in-
service professional development training developed byNAEM. They will be registeredas
qualified headteachers on completiono fthis training. All teachers will need to become certified
inaperiodoffive years.

78.       Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: NAEMi s beingrestructured and
appropriately staffed and this restructuring i s expected to be completed inthe next twelve months.
Inaddition, NAEMis coordinating the trainingofteacher trainers andimprovingthe quality of
materials for teacher training (Box 3). Beginningin2006, all new teachers entering the system
will need a minimumone year B.Ed.leveltraining ingovernment or inapproved privateteacher
training colleges (TTC's) before being accredited. Inaddition, an in-service teacher training

      Box 3: Improvingthe Quality of Teacher Training and Teacher Training Materials

   Increasing the number o fteacher trainers and improving their quality, inboth subject matter and
  pedagogy, will be critical. The quality o f the teacher trainers working inthe Teacher Training Colleges
   (TTCs) and inother teacher training network institutions is beingupgraded and enhanced. Capacity
  buildingis beingprovidedthrough a combination o finternational andlocaltraining, leading to Master
   ofEducation (MEd), postgraduate diploma, and other relevant postgraduate studies for potential teacher
   trainers ineducation service, coordinated through NAEM.

   The training required for a quality teaching force will necessitate improved teaching and training
  materials- e.g., trainers' guides, textbooks, and manuals for the revised in-service and pre-service
   syllabus-and support for teachers inschools. Materials are beingprepared informats suitable for use
   through both the standard face-to-face training and distance education modes o f delivery. Bangladesh
   OpenUniversity has the facilities for producing and distributing the required teacher training materials
   and is commissioned to carry out this work, supported with enhanced facilities, and materials.
   Ownershp and copyright o ftraining materials will lie with NAEM.

   Technical support for these reforms is beingprovidedby IDA and ADB and CIDA who are supporting
  the implementation o f these reforms through the Teacher Quality Improvement project.

program will be developed and providedto untrained teachers innon-government schools
through a two-stage B.Ed.program. The first stage will focus on practical aspects o f classroom
teaching. As an incentive, teachers completingthis stage will be certified as qualifiedteachers
and will receive an increase insalary equivalent to 35 percent o f the o fthe existingB.Ed.
increment accorded to government secondary school teachers. Inthe second stage, these teachers
will complete the remainingB.Ed.module either through distance learningor face-to-face mode
through the accredited Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs). Finally a system o f selective specialist



lo The Asian DevelopmentBankwill be supporting MoE's investmentsinthe area of teacher training throughthe
recently approvedTeacher Quality Improvement Project.


                                                       19

in-service teacher trainingprogram will also be developed for teachers inEnglish, Mathematics
and the Sciences and will be providedthrough distance education.

79.      These reforms are expected to lead to an improved quality o f the stock o f teachers present
inthe system. Itwill beimportantto ensurethat while there remainsaclear demarcation inthe
functions o fNAEMand NTRCA, they act ina coordinated fashion. These changes will lead to a
competitively selected andprofessionalized teaching force at the secondary level. It i s anticipated
that teacher absenteeism will be reduced to halfits baseline levels by 2008 and 25 percent of the
teaching force will be trainedby then.

Textbooks and Curriculum

80.      While NCTB falls under the authority o f MoE, it i s infact responsible for curriculum
development and textbook production at both the primary and secondary levels. Reforms
undertaken here are beingjointly implemented by M o E and MoPME. The main objective i s to
moveNCTB out o f the business of textbook productionand publishingand focus on oversight o f
textbook productionand curriculum development.


Separation of curriculum developmentand textbookproduction

81.       The rationale for this reform i s that the textbook productionand curriculum development
unitsrequire two separate sets of professional skills which wouldreceive more attention ifthere
i s a clear separation o f functions. Besides, the curriculum wing was partly financed from the
revenues earned by the textbook wing inthe past. This created an imbalance o f power and control
between the two wings affecting particularly the curriculum related activities. The Government
has developed and i s implementingan NCTB restructuring planto demarcate the functions o f the
                                                                       curriculum andtextbook
                                                                       units. This reformaims to
                                                                       make boththe unitsmuch
                                                                       more effective thanthey were
                                                                       inthepast.

                                                                       82.      Actions taken under
                                                                       ESDSC11:Implementationo f
                                                                       the actionplan has led to
                                                                       complete functional
                                                                       separation o f textbook and
                                                                       curriculum units. The
                                                                       curriculum unitremains
                                                                       exclusively focused on
                                                                       preparing, testing, revising,
                                                                       anddisseminating curricula
                                                                       and on other curriculum
                                                                       related activities, and i s
                                                                       disengaged from textbook
                                                                       production. The textbook
                                                                       remains responsible for
textbook productionand distribution through a transparent and open competitive process.




                                                     20

83.      Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: Beginning 2007, the curriculum wing will
be fully financed through the recurrent budget and the curriculum wing will initiate revision o f
the secondary education curriculum (Box 4).

84.      The effectiveness o f these reformneeds to be evaluated over the coming year to ensure
that the functional separation i s leadingto an improvement inperformance o fNCTB. Curriculum
reforms will bejudged to have been effective ifthey lead to improved quality o f secondary
education-i.e. lower dropout rates and improved completion rates.

Transparency in manuscript approval and competition in textbookproduction

85.      An area where NCTB will retain an important supervisory role i s that o f textbook
approval. M o E established a 21member Independent Textbook Evaluation Committee (ITEC)
which developed a set o f transparent selection criteria for evaluating textbook manuscripts.
These criteria are now being followed, andbased on them, a team o f subject specialists outside
NCTB evaluate manuscripts which are then approved by ITEC andNCTB (Box 5). Inaddition,
the cabinet has approved making the process o f textbook publication and printingtransparent and
opening it up to competition- seven textbooks at the secondary level were producedusingthese
criteria for the 2005 academic year.

86.      Actions taken under ESDSC11:(i) first phase o ftextbook competition process
                                             The
evaluated and found effective; and (ii)  textbook productionhas been further opened up to
competition. 33 secondary school textbooks, including all 21 books for grades 6-8 are published
competitively. Schools are free to choose the textbooks they like from the market.

87.      Proposedfuture actions and expected impact: Textbooks productionfor all textbooks at
the secondary level will be openedto competitionby 2007 Academic Year.




prior to the beginning o f the        Box 5: Competitioninthe ProductionandPublication
academic year, The quality o f                               of Textbooks
the paper i s also reportedto
be superior as compared to               As an initial step, seven books at the secondary level
that o f previous textbooks.             were opened up to competitive productionfor AY2005.
The cost o f textbook                    Production o f 33 books was opened up to competition
production has not declined as           for AY2006, including all 21 books for grades 6 to 8.
yet, and this will be closely            Authors were given three months to submit the
monitored over the coming                manuscripts. All manuscripts were receivedby end o f
years.                                   June 2005.
                                         Submitted manuscripts were thenreviewedby experts.
89.      Based on the                    To maintain transparency and fairness inselecting
discussion above, Box 6 and              manuscripts, names o f authors are coded andnot
Box 7 lay out the prior actions          revealed to ITEC. After evaluation andnecessary
for disbursement o f the first           changes, all books for Grades 6-8 havebeenpublished
credit, and the indicative               and distributedfor the 2006 academic year.
triggers for a possible follow-
upadjustment operation              I

respectively. Annex Ecompares the prior actions for ESDSC I1with the potential triggers that


                                                  21

were at the time of ESDSCI. can be seen inthis Annex, almost all the proposedtriggers have
                                As
become prior actions for ESDSC11.




Policy Framework

      Satisfactory implementation
      Letter of Sector Policyprovide
      investmentsneededfor quality




                                          22

    Box 7: Summary of Indicative Triggers for Follow-Up Development Policy Operation (FY07/08)

Policy Framework

      Satisfactory implementation o f macroeconomic framework;
      Ministryo fEducationprovides a Letter ofSector Policy whichlays out the policy framework andthe thirdphase
      o f investments needed for quality improvements.

System Management

      Cabinet approval o f a grant-based financing system for institutions where grants are linkedto student enrolments
      and performance inexaminations;
      Complete independent evaluation o f the performance o f service providers assessing school eligibility for
       subvention and implement recommendations;
      Implement strategies for strengthening o f BANBEIS and carrying out thirdparty surveys and enhance capacity of
      BANBEIS to update data on an annual basis;
      Pilot student assessment for students ingrades 9 and 12basedo n internationally recognized assessments (such as
       TIMSS)
       Evaluate the pilot o n means-tested stipend scheme andbasedon recommendations, develop a framework for
       country-wide approach;
       Prepare an action plan to assist the ill-performing schools inthe poorer or disadvantaged areas so that they can
       meet performance criteria;
       Continue implementation o f M o E financial management improvement plan and ensure effective functioning o f the
       financial unit

TeacherEffectiveness

       Evaluate the NTRCAregistration and certification process and implementrecommendations ina manner
       satisfactory to IDA;
       Complete restructuring o f NAEMto function as apex body on teacher training policies, coordination and
       regulation o f teacher training institutions;
       Institute new teacher training policy for new and head teachers as well as subject specialists inEnglish,
       Mathematics and the Sciences. Teachers not meeting competence standards set byNAEM, are to have skills
       upgraded over a period o f five years beginning 2006;

 Curriculum and Textbooks

       Complete all aspects o f NCTBrestructuring andbringCurriculum wing fully under revenue budget;
       Complete the process o f competition for textbook publishingand printingfor the entire secondary education
       wstem and evahiatinn cnnrhicted to shidv its trancnarencv


                                                  V. TheProposed Credit

        90.      The proposed Credit will support the second phase o f implementation of the
        government's education reform program-mainly focusing on supporting governance related
       reforms in secondary education as laid out inMoE's medium-term framework, and described in
        detail in Section IV above. The proposed credit would complement the DSC series o f operations
        that are aimed at strengthening core governance functions, with emphasis on procurement, public
        financial management, tax administration, public administration, andchecks andbalances on
        public entities. The amount o f the credit would be US$lOO million equivalent, and the borrower
        would be the People's Republic o f Bangladesh.



                                                              23

91.      Based on agreement with the Bank and the IMF,the Government has put inplace a
prudent and sustainable medium-termmacro-economic framework for increasing growth and
povertyreduction. The growthrates envisaged for the next five years represent a significant
increase from recent performance. The framework envisages an increase inGDP growthrates
from the estimated 5.4 percent inFY05 to sevenpercent inFY08ifthe reforms are followed
rigorously, among other things. This growth, while contingent on improved governance, may
leadto larger investments by a more vibrant private sector (including FDI), a strong increase in
the efficiency o f investment and a further buildingup o f human capital and physical
infrastructure. This credit i s subject to the satisfactory implementation o f the macro-framework.

92.      The prior actions are consistent with the medium-termpolicy framework articulated by
MoE. The policy matrix i s attached as Annex A. The set o f actions supportedby the first credit
are outlined inColumn 2 o f the matrix. Column 3 o f the matrix lists the set o fprior actions that
Government i s undertaking as part o f the proposed second credit, Column 4 details out actions
that are being contemplated for FY07/8 that will be potentially supportedthrough a third single
tranche credit. The monitorable indicators associated with this policy framework are presented in
the final column.

93.      Borrower, Credit Amount, Termsand Tranching: The borrower i s the People's Republic
o f Bangladesh. A single tranche Credit o f about SDR 69.1 million (USSlOO million equivalent)
would be made available upon credit effectiveness. The closingdate o f the Credit i s December
31,2006. The completion o fthe prior actions i s sufficient to release the Credit.

94.      Disbursement. Proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursedto a specific deposit account of
the Ministryo f Finance established at Bangladesh Bank for this purpose; the deposit account i s
part o fthe country's official foreign exchange reserves. An amount equivalent to the Credit
proceeds will thenbe credited to an account o f the Government to finance budgeted expenditures.
Transactions and balances o f the Government account will be fully incorporated into the
Government's accounting records and financial statements. Disbursement will not be linked to
any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will be needed. Ifany portion o f the
Credit proceeds i s used for ineligible purposes as definedby the Development Credit Agreement,
the International Development Association (IDA) will require the Borrower either to retumthat
amount to the deposit account or refund the amount directly to IDA.

95.      Auditing: The entries o f the deposit account will, upon request from the Association, be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDAunder terms o f reference inaccordance with
international standards on auditing. The team envisages exercising this right as an additional
fiduciary assurancemeasure.

Fiduciary Issues

96.      Financial Management. The WorldBank'sReview o f Institutional Arrangements for
Public Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement completed inJune, 2005 confirmed
that links inthe public financial accountability chain inBangladesh continue to be weak. Internal
and external controls remainweak, as reflectedinthe lack o f accounting information inline
ministries, delays inthe publication o f audited reports, unsatisfactory quality o f the external
audits function, andineffective Parliamentary oversight o f the whole budget process. Though
GOB has taken several stepsto improve itspublic financialmanagement andprocurement
systems and the overall trajectory o f change has been positive, the pace o f progress has been
slower than anticipated. Notwithstandingthe achievements, a number o f challenges remain.


                                                    24

Among them are the needs to: (a) allow greater flexibility to ministriesinmanagement o fbudget
implementation; (b) improve the internal control environment; (c) strengthen the accounting and
reportingmechanisms to obtain timely, regular, adequate and reliable information; (d) improve
the quality o f audit and its impact; (e) develop relevant knowledge, aptitude, competence and
skills o f civil servants; and (f) enhance implementation capacity.

97.       Over the last several years, GOB has been addressing some o f these issues through a
series o freform programs supportedbyUKDFID,the World Bank and the IMF. The PRSP calls
for strengthening planningprocesses to avoid over programming, including through better project
preparation and approval process. Recentreform initiatives include: (a) separation o f the external
audit and internal accounting functions making the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG)
independent o f the accounting function; (b) introductiono f a Medium-Term Budgetary
Framework (MTBF) being piloted infour ministries (including MoE) inFY06; (c) rolling out o f a
custom developed computerized accounting system in20 out o f 58 District Accounts Offices and
7 out o f 49 ChiefAccounts Offices; and (d) reduction by the Public Accounts Committee o f the
Parliament inthe backlogo f audited accounts for its review.

98.      The Bank i s working with the government to develop a detailed actionplan that will help
improve the ratings on the Public FinancialManagement (PFM) indicators duringthe next CAS
period. One o f the benchmarks for continuing development policy lendinginthe future i s
achieving satisfactory progress on the annual benchmarks to be established under the agreed
Public Expenditureand FinancialAccountability (PEFA) framework that would aim to improve
Bangladesh's PFMratings over the medium term. Efforts are also underway to tailor and apply
the PFMmeasurement framework at the sector level to specifically suit the needs o f MOE.

99.      A financial managementassessmento fthe education sector conducted aspart ofESDSC-
Iidentifiedthefollowingpertinentissues:(a)inadequatecontrolenvironmentleadingtomisuse,
wastage o fpublic funds and corruption; (b) unreliable accounts due to backloginreconciliation
affecting budget monitoring; (c) insufficient capacity inMOE to produce comprehensive
financial information to evaluate performance and take informed decision; (d) absence o f internal
audit function to review the internal control system and management; (e) poor response to audit
objections at prior PAC stage and persistent delays inimplementationo f PAC recommendations;
(f) lack o fprofessional financial managementcapacity invarious academic and administrative
units; and(g) misuse o fautonomy andlack of accountability inpublic universities and education
boards. Expenditure tracking studies suggested that the public financial resources reached
schools as intended, but there was evidence o f mismanagement inthe authorization o f spending.

100.     M O E has been keento address the above issues andhad agreed with IDA on a medium
term FinancialManagement Improvement Plan (FMIP) comprising actions to: (a) strengthen the
Financial Management Unit (FMU); (b) improvereconciliation o f accounts; (c) introduce internal
audit; (d) respondbetter to audit queries; and (e) follow up on recommendations o f the Public
Accounts Committee. Impressive progress has been made inimplementation o fthese agreed
actions. The Financial Management Unit (FMU) is being staffed and supported by consultants
under the ongoing Financial Management ReformProgram(FMRP) o f DFID. The FMUhas
facilitated improvedmonitoring o fproject expenditure data, introductiono fMTBFincluding
compilation o f integratedbudget, and tracking o f poverty relatedexpenditure. The status o f
reconciliationo f the records o f the Drawingand Disbursement Officers (DDOs) with that o f the
District Accounts Officers (DAOs) i s regularly monitored and reconciliation for the month o f
November 2005 has been completed with 95% o f the DDOs. M o E initially called for bids for
outsourcing internal audit but could not complete the procurement process. They have now
issueda new set o f bidsunder a fixed budget method. Inthe meanwhile, at the request o f MoE,


                                                   25

the Auditor General has carried out a special audit o f ten public universities and follow up actions
have been initiated on the audit findings. M o E has also received approval from MoF for
establishing a special Audit Cell to devote full attention to follow up actions on a more regular
basis. A baseline database has been established to track the resolutiono f audit objections and
implementationprogress o f PAC recommendations. A highlevel committee chaired by the
Secretary, MOE i s monitoring the progress issuingdirectives to the defaulting directorates under
MOE. To minimize the time lag insettlement o fobjections, tripartite meetings are beingheld
among MOE, concernedDirectorate and the C&AG.

101.    Fiduciary Risk. The various diagnostics conducted by the Bank and other donors
acknowledge that fiduciary risk inpublic spending inBangladesh i s high. GOB has taken several
steps through various DFID supportedreform programs including the ongoing Financial
Management Reform Program (FMRP) to address the weaknesses, and M o E i s one o fthe
beneficiaryministries o f these reforms. While significantprogress has beenmade over the last
five years to strengthen financial management and reduce fiduciary risks, there are several
challenges still remaining. As one o f the measures to mitigate the fiduciary risk, a dedicated
special account has beenproposed for Credit disbursement.

102.     The IMF Safeguard Assessment conducted in September 2002 concluded that financial
management inthe BangladeshBank was weak. To enhance the safeguards framework, the
BangladeshBank has started strengthening its financial management with IMFsupport and
through the IDA-financed Central Bank Strengthening Project. A time table has been set for the
adoption o f International Accounting Standards by the Bangladesh Bank as its accounting
framework. Starting from FY03, the BangladeshBank has its financial statements auditedby
international affiliated audit firm infull compliance with international standards on auditing.

103.     Budgetary Risk. Fungibilityo f funds implies that budgetary resources may be diverted or
misused, which poses a particular risk to operations such as ESDSC 11. The Government,
however, has a good record o f allocatingpublic spending to key development sectors, including
social spending and infrastructure. To further mitigate the risk, auditing arrangements and
financial management within government ministries (including MoE) are being strengthened with
DFID'sassistance. Externaloversightbythe Comptroller andAuditor General's office is also
being strengthened. Further, tracking studies o f major spending on education should also curb
leakages. These measures should mitigate budgetary risks, but their effectiveness will depend
crucially on the swift resolutiono f serious financial irregularities, identifiedby the C&AG, and
on readiness by the Finance Ministryto impose financial sanctions on errant agencies and
programs. The FMIP agreed with M o E addresses some o fthese concerns.

 104.    Procurement. The landscape o f procurement has beenreshaped duringthe course o f the
last several years and the Government has put inplace a uniform procurement policy inOctober
2003 for all public sector entities across the country, with provisions o f substantially reduced
layers inprocurement approval process. Inaddition, a procurement tracking system through MIS
has been established. The new regulations have increased awareness among the contracting/
business community and contributed significantly towards harmonizing donors' and Government
procurement procedures. The Bank and other key development partners have accepted the
regulations for all local procurement. However, there are still a number o f cross-cutting
governance, institutional, and implementationissues including inadequate enforcement of
regulations, delays inaward, allegations o f fraud andcorruption, andpolitical interference. For
further improvement, the following plannedactions are being supportedby DSC 111:(i)         a new
draft procurement law, including contracting o f concessions, will be discussed by the Cabinet and



                                                  26

subsequently presented to Parliament, and (ii)secondreform project with provisions o f e-
                                                 a
procurement, compliance monitoring, and social accountability i s under preparation.

Environmental Aspects

105.     A matrix screening the policies supportedunder the program for potentialenvironmental
impacts i s provided as Annex F. Overall, the program i s environmentally benign, andwill not
have significant effects on the environment, natural resources, or forests. Inparticular, the
policies supportedunder the program will not lead to higher levels o f physical investment, but
will support more equitable accessthroughreductions inthe establishment o fnew schools in
overserved upazilas, balanced by the establishment o f institutions inunderservedupazilas. The
proposedtriggers for the thirdcredit include the review and strengthening o f the environmental
guidelines for school construction.

106.     At the secondary education level, aprincipalenvironmental concern is the needto ensure
the provision o f safe drinkingwater at schools, and the provision and maintenance o f adequate
sanitation. To address these issues, IDA has been working with M o E (as part o f the Second
Female Secondary EducationStipend Project currentlybeingimplemented) to put inplace
arrangements to guard against the arsenic contamination o f hnking water. The agreed
guidelines are also being usedto design and maintain latrines. Since 2003, over 1,400 tubewells
and latrines have been constructed inschools. Wells are also tested for arsenic every six months
and contamination rates are inthe vicinity o f 15 percent. Inareas where the wells havebeen
found to be contaminated, M o E has attempted to develop alternative means to provide arsenic-
free water to children.

Monitoring and Evaluation

 107.    Improvingthe quality and effectiveness o f economic and social policies will require more
timely and reliable information for policy analysis and assessingoutcomes. The PRSP outlines a
monitoring framework, which includes monitoring indicators, data sources, and institutional
arrangements for monitoring and providing feedback to policymakers. Sources include existing
data as well as plannedannual surveys for tracking intermediate indicators related to access,
usage, and quality o fpublic services. Inorder to adequately evaluate the quality and impact o f
 educational services, there i s a need for timely andreliable data at various levels: household (and
 intra-householdlevel to examine issues such as gender); school level data (e.g., quality o f
 infrastructure, teacher characteristics, measures o f governance, pupillearning); resource flows in
 the education sector (e.g., expenditure tracking data at the school-level). While some o f these
 data sources can be obtained via self-reported data as long as the veracity i s systematically cross-
 checked (e.g., exam pass rates inschools), some o f these data sources require specialized surveys
 conductedby the government and independent third-parties (e.g., teacher absenteeism).

 108.     Annex C discusses how the ESDSC program as a whole can be monitored and evaluated,
 and what steps need to be taken to improve the quality and reliability o f data collected by the
 BangladeshBureauo f Educational and Information Statistics (BANBEIS).

 109.     Household Datu. The Bureauo f Statistics (BBS) carries out nationallyrepresentative
 household surveys such as HouseholdIncome and Expenditure Survey (HIES) on a regular basis.
 HIES provides an important basis for updatedpoverty monitoring and analysis. Besides
 systematic welfare measures (e.g., consumption-based poverty headcount), theses household
 surveys play a critical role inproviding another source o f independent data on critical educational
 outcomes (e.g., primary school completion rate). Successful monitoring depends critically on


                                                   27

institutional arrangements and their capacity. A National Poverty Focal Point h,asbeen created in
the General Economics Division (GED) o fthe PlanningCommissionto monitor poverty and
track progress in implementingthe national strategy for economic growth and poverty reduction.
The NPFP is expected to grow and function as an institutionally effective andtechnically
competent Poverty Monitoring Unitwith strong inter-ministerial linkages and interactions with
various stakeholders outside the Government.

110.     School-levelAdministrative Data. BANBEIS collects/compiles critical secondary-school
level data on enrollment, age and gender distribution, certain measure o f school efficiency (e.g.,
drop-out rate), teacher characteristics, school infrastructure, and school type (government, private
nonreligious, religious). BANBEIS, which was established in 1977, is the primary technical arm
o f the M o E which has been maintaining several post-primary education and GIS mapping
database systems. While the basic structure o f BANBEIS is sound, the system can be further
strengthened to increase the frequency at which it collects certain critical data, the veracity o f the
self-reported school data, and linkages with other essential data systems. MoE is currently
working towards addressing these issues.

111.     Third-party Surveys. MoE is inthe process o f incorporatingfindings from various
independent third-party surveys on importantmeasures o f system quality rangingfrom teacher
absenteeism to public expenditure tracking.

112.     Based on these data, key indicators that will be monitored duringthe medium-termwill
include: (a) pass rates instandardized examinations; (b) teacher absenteeism rates; (c) gross and
net enrollment rates (including enrollment rates o f the poor); (d) dropout rates; (e) completion
rates; (f) proportion o f public resources being accessedby the poor; and (f)unit costs per
completer. As it will be importantto monitor whether Bangladesh will be able to maintain its
impressive progress towards gender parity, these results will be disaggregated by gender.
Furthermore, regular evaluations o fpolicies andprograms will also be carried out to inform MoE
o fhow to better redesign its interventions to help achieve education targets.

Poverty and SocialImpacts

 113.    Analysis shows that the social rates o f return for bothjunior secondary (10.5 percent) and
I           ':                                                                       secondary (11percent) education
                 DirtrlbutlonOf PublicReaourcrato SecondalyEducltionby Qulniii8a     are hightojustify government
    4                                                                                investment inthe sub-sector. In
    IC                                                                               particular, secondary education
    35                                                                               for females i s the best investment

    a                                                                                from both the individual's and
                                                                                     society's point o f view as shown
    2J
  c                                                                                  bythe privateand social rate o f
    20                                                                               return o f about 19 percent and 21
    I S                                                                              percent respectively (see Annex

    11                                                                               G). Simulations also show that a
                                                                                     package o f reforms aimed at
     5                                                                               improving system governance
     0
           01              m                   03                04              a   will havethe most impact on
                                            Quinlilis                                increasing gross enrollments and
                                          ElCYrnnt     DPllmlarm*                    completion rates and reducing the
average years to complete the secondary cycle.



                                                                        28

114.      One o f MoE's goals i s to make access to educationmore equitable, as currently only 24
percent o f the public secondary education spending i s accessedby the poor, and this decreasesby
grade as the poor are more likely to drop out at higher grades. Steps being taken inthis direction
have been highlighted in SectionV. An attempt has been made to simulate the impact o f these
reforms on the distributiono f public resources over the next five years. As evident (Figure l),  the
distribution o f public expenditures i s expected to become more pro-poor as a result o f the
measures being undertaken by the government. While only 17 percent o fpublic expenditures are
currently being spent on the bottom two quintiles, this proportioni s expected to rise to about 24
percent as a result o f the reforms. The proportion o f public resources being accessedby the poor
i s anticipated to rise to about 33 percent (from 24 percent). While these changes are not massive,
they represent important steps inthe direction o f making more resources available to the poor at
the secondary level.

LessonsLearned and Benefits and Risks

LessonsLearned

115.      The second Education Sector Development Support Credit buildsuponthe lessons
learned duringthe implementation o f ESDSC I, the DSCs. Some o f the key lessons which
                                                   and
are being incorporated into ESDSC I1include:

     For these reforms to succeed, continuedpolitical commitment o f the Government to these
     reforms, its ownership o f the results and public receptivity o f the reform initiatives are
     critical. Continuedbacking o f the process by the highest levels o f government has ensured
     that special interest groups have not been able to derail key reformmeasures;
     Itis importantthat the programmatic approachremainflexible enoughto accommodate
     lessons learned from ongoing activities and changes ingroundrealities -while maintaining
     overall coherence and directiono fthe reform. The government realized that the initially
     plannedreforms inteacher upgradation were unlikely to meet their objectives. Therefore,
     these were reformulatedand a more comprehensive teacher training planwas put inplace.
     The success o f these reforms will also be enhanced through upgrading technical capacity, and
     effectively usingdata generated from monitoring and evaluation o f specific programs and the
     system in general, for planning purposes. Efforts to efficiently restructure
     managing/governing committees o f educational institutions, establishment o f upazila and
     district oversight committees, creation o fNTRCA, and restructuring o fNCTB and NAEM
     are some o f the appropriate steps toward institutional development that will lead to improved
     quality o f education. Understandably, it takes time for these institutional development
     measures to show positive outcomes, butthe implementationo f these measures inthemselves
     constitute a strong signal about the seriousness o f the Government to ensure the desired
     impact.
     Triggers also needto be backed by analytical work to ensure well-designed reforms. M o E
     has continued to commission in-depth studies inselected areas. Reforms have been informed
     bythis analysis, andrelevant work undertaken by development partners.
     Reforms are likely to be more sustainable ifall the stakeholders are consulted about the
     outcome and long-termbenefits to the country. M o E has engaged inan extensive range o f
     consultations/workshops with government officials and other stakeholders at the central,
     district, andupazila levels. This has engendered a wide buy-infor these reforms from key
     stakeholders.




                                                   29

Benefits and Risks

116.     Improving governance has repeatedly been identified as the biggest development
challenge facing Bangladesh andthe greatest impediment to achieving its growth potential and
thus achievingthe povertyreductionMDG. The proposedcredit will assist indeepeningreforms
aimed at raising the quality o f service delivery, andat the same time improving equity o f access
to secondary education. By alteringthe incentives for the financing and provision o f education,
and buildinggreater accountability, these reforms will reducerent-seeking opportunities and
enhance cost-effectiveness.

117.     It is intended that thesereformswill lead to outcomes such as more equitable access to
secondary education with more schools being set up inunderserved areas, better trained andmore
effective teachers, reduced teacher absenteeism, higher enrollment and completionrates, reduced
time to complete the secondary cycle, andinunit costs per student completingthe cycle. This
will ultimately leadto a more skilled labor force attunedto the needs o fthe Bangladeshi labor
market, raising its competitiveness inglobal markets.

118.     There are potentially some social costs associated with the project - e.g. the
government's decision to stop subvention payments to under-performing schools unless they
improve their performance, will leadto unqualified teachers beingpotentially laido f fby private
schools. However, these are far outweighed by the long-term benefits o f good quality secondary
education beingprovided in schools with well-qualified teachers.

119.     The program does entail significantrisks, andmany o f these remainthe same as i s the
case with ESDSCI.The key risks and the risk mitigation strategy are outlined inTable 5 below.




                                                   30

                           Table5: K Risks and RiskMitigation Strategies
                                        r
 Risks                                                          RiskMitigation Strategy
Macroeconomic. Deterioration in       Creating a stable macroeconomic environment is a central pillar in
 the macroeconomic situation.         Government's strategy inthe PRSP. Towards ensuring
                                      macroeconomic stability, the Government has taken actions inkey
                                      areas o f macroeconomic management - e.g. fiscal deficits and their
                                      domestic financing have been curtailed, and fiscal transparency and
                                      budget management are being improved.
 Political. Sustaining the political  Given that the next elections are only about 12 months away, there
 commitment to reform. While key      are real challenges to maintaining the momentum ina turbulent
 stakeholders inthe Government are      political climate. However, there are also grounds for optimism.
 committed to refonn, with elections    Lessons of experience show that successive governments have
 looming, there is likelhood that the continued to implement ongoing educationprograms andpolicies,
 Government will be reluctant to push and this trend i s likely to continue. Furthermore, the Government
 reforms.                             has done a very soundjob o f communicating these reforms and the
                                      potentialbenefits they entail to stakeholders. It will thus be difficult
                                      for vested interest groups to renege on these reforms without meeting
                                      significant resistance from stakeholders.
 Corruption. Inthe past, there have   A key objective o fthis reformpackage i s to buildgreater
 been allegations o f corruption and    transparency and openness inthe system. Through conducting and
 resources meant for education have   disseminatingresults o f expenditure tracking surveys, stakeholders
 sometimes beencaptured.                are made aware o f how resources meant for the system are being
                                      utilized. These reforms are likely to make it muchmore difficult to
                                        engage incorrupt practices.
 Capacity. Givenrelatively low          M o E i s cognizant o f its capacity constraints. Several measures are
 government capacity,                 being taken to alleviate this problem. Particular emphasis has been
 implementation o freforms ina          given to buildingtechnical planning capacity and focusing the
 timely manner may bejeopardized.      ministry's role o n formulating policies, financing, setting quality
                                        standards, assuring quality delivery, and monitoring and evaluation.
                                        The capacity o f DSHE and BANBEIS i s also being enhanced.
                                        Towards strengthening local level capacity, oversight committees
                                        have been formed ineach o f the districts and upazillas to monitor
                                        school performance and ensure public disclosure o f information.
                                        The strategy also relies on strengthening school management
                                        committees to give them greater responsibility regarding the
                                        supervision o f schools. Furthermore, many reforms will be
                                        implemented incollaboration with the private sector and independen
                                        service providers on a competitive basis. This will not only lead to
                                        higher quality o f services, but also ensure that MoE's capacity i s not
-                                       unduly stretched.
 Fiduciary Risk. Fiduciary risk in      A recent Review o fInstitutionalArrangements for Public
 public spending inBangladeshi s        Expenditure, FinancialManagement and Procurement revealed that
 high                                   Bangladesh's public expenditure institutions needto be strengthened
                                        significantly. Key links inthe chain o f public financial
                                        accountability are weak. The government has begunto address these
                                        weaknesses systematically as part o f a program o f reforms being
                                        supportedby UK DFID, the World Bank and the IMF. Significant
                                        progress has been made towards the introduction o f a Medium-Term
                                        Budgetary Framework (MTBF). This i s being piloted infour
                                        ministries (including MoE) inFY06and will be extended to 6
                                        ministries inFY07. There has been considerable improvement intht
                                        speed withwhich accounts are generated, and allowed the
                                        government to produce monthly fiscal reports. The Government has
                                        also eliminated a major conflict o f interestby separating the external



                                                       31

R i S k S                                                 RiskMitigation Strategy
                                     audit and internal accounting functions, and now needs to make the
                                     Comptroller and Auditor General a truly independent body, not
                                     relying on the government for its budgetary allocations and
                                     administrative decisions. The Bank i s working with the govemment
                                     to develop a detailed action planthat will help improve the ratings on
                                     the Public Financial Management (PFM) indicators during the next
                                     CAS period.
Financing. Owingto the uncertain     While there are concerns about the uncertainexternal environment,
external environment - which may     the PRSP clearly demonstrates the Government's commitment to
not improve inthe near future- the   maintaining a highlevel o f investment inthe education sector. This
government's ability to maintain its commitment has been further strengthened through measures which
commitment to the sub-sector may     are aimed at allocating resources more efficiently and reducing
be an issue.                         leakages fromthe system.




                                                   32

                              Annex A1




NO.ERDflDA-2IESDSC-2'2oOSi3               Date: 17Jmmy1006

De8rMr.Wolfowib:




                                                  Sicaely.




                                  3 3

No. MOEPLIIDev.SupportCredit(Part.1)/47/2006/214                       Date:9J ~ ~ l r n y
                                                                                        2006


Subject: EducationSector DcrcloprrrntSupportCredk Lmaof socdwPolkp

DearMr.Wolfowitz:

Greetings for the New Year,

You must have noticed Brnglrdcshk mmg economic pechmnm in tf# plclt fbw yea. T k
Government tms mkca significant actions to stabilize tbc ummeww& cn-
governance. GDP growth continues to d       nabove five percentperu~oumBaaghbh O M Of rbe
                                                                                       diapms

few countria that have
country har prrpued a P o w Reduaion Stnteoy Prper (PRSP) h g h 8 pmce~of oxtcnrivo
                                 pitinpa-capita@inmryyerrdrres                     crrty 19%. Tbs

consultationswith variow stakeholders.

Human resource development remains at the core o f BangIaduh'c dcvelopacnt eftbrtr and we
believe that access to quality education is critical to povaty rsductioo md d       c dmbplreoL
The nation's d t m c n t to educationhrr baa clytv rtrtedintbc corntitub mdib&v&pmt
plans. Educotioa expenditures are currently about 2.3 percent of GDP md 14% pacent of
govcmmcnt expcadieurrs. Educationc0otjmbe.s to receivethebight budgemyallodam                   111
sectors, whicb we believe k imperative fa achieving Eldudonfix All @FA) .rdhMikmhn~
Development Goals (MDGs).

Also, over the last few yeon, the Government has undcdim a munba of iqnxbat stnxtnd
r e f m that arc expected to bring significant iiqxov-         intbe aimtion recta. Sans of the
results are J d y visible. These actions danoastrate tbe Government's connnirmcnttorccdentt
growth and reducepverry through sustained improvementineducation.

The Bank has supported the implementation of the first phase of thae rtfonns through 8 d i t of
 USS100million that was disbursed in late2004. Given theporitive whicvcamta.~omcofwhich arc
 highlighted below. the Govcmment is reelring arpport for a LecIwd d t of USSlOO millioa to
 deepen the refonns. Thio will lcad to significant progress towards achieving imlpoved
 governanceand ensuringequitable~ccessto highquality education


 Sector Backpound

 The managenxnt of the education system falls under two ministCies. Tbc Ministxy of Rimrr), md
 Moor Education (MOPME) is responsible for primary cduation and the MiDbhy of I3hati0a
 (MOE) looks aner secondary, vocatioarl and krt@ cd.uc&ot~ Ovarlf thar: ut mort lhn 19
 million students at the phary !evel, and over eight millionat t b retoadvynlevel. h b m d sUtbt
 tertiary level arc rchtively d l but -wing       rapidly with the e   o     of         provirionof
 tertiary education.

 Bangladesh has mrde significant progress, tspecially in incrrrring access mi rchieviag gadcr
 equity, both at the primary and secondary levek. Grwr PrinrUyemollmart nterow 6om90p'fxn!




                                                  3 4

The Govment is strongly committed to dcvhting tfrtre probkn!~~ ttvwgb mfhm l ~ rbs     m  ~
educOtionsystem. At the primary kvel, MOPMEhrc uducakma RimpyEduatiooIkvsbpDsot
Program 11 (PEDP 11) orix-ycar progmnlwhich ainn tosucag&m cduatbd IoeLIQ,eplar 9d
                      -
efficiency. The program is ruppocted by a group of dcvelopamt prrhlsn, both biMd rad
multilateral.




(a) System& Management

The objectives art to establishgnaier ?mpamcy inthe UIC urddlocationof rcsnmu, ir#sr# the
accountability of institutions IO fundmg auMtia and local               and dsvclop I morc
                                                           ~~
dcvolvcd andefficientmanngcmcntoftbc eduutionry*cm, with         rt.ltboldainvol-




                                            35

A c c w of the Poor to Education

MOE realizesthat the tightening ofcriteria inschool finaacig mdreghaion nadsto bbduml
with appmpn'atc measures to e      m greater a a a , particularly, for relrtively poonr utls,which
might be otherwise advcnely affected. actio^ uc under wry inthis re&           Rrrwtub.hB-      of
Educational Information Statistics (BANBEIS) he undertpkon Irchool mappingaxcxchc. 'Ihir bu
helpedMOE identify 1I S 'ovemerved' upazillasw      h noIICWrehoolrandd l c p wiU be
by the govcmment for two yam. In60 'uoderravsd' upuillu thu idudfied, MOE is pmvidiag
support to W up govrmmonischools md is offering inccativato privrrt providers to wt upkxpmd
schools. Thissituationwill bemmcsacdonImgulubaris




                                               36



                                                                                             ..

SIakeholdcn'Involwment

11 is important tha~Schml Managementcommittea(SMCs) rpd Colkgo Govaaing Bodia (Ga) be
appropriatelyempowered Tkey anthc key entitiesat thecoamrunitylevel who mmqpceboob a tod
monitor school pcrfonnurce. The Regulations on Mamging Committea have b m
ensure that thm will no uadw politid influma on tbo rrrmt~nrmtof rrboolr mdrecmbmtof
teachers. In the pas: rben WQC instancea of a politidly influuW ixlividurlchair& 50 r\rb
committees.Also, incrrasadwomenparticipationin mmgeamtbodiesbaskenhsthutiaulhd.




Teacher Accreditation

MOE has established an auionomoua NobGovarrmenr Terha Regbt~atianud caritkrtioo
Authority (NTRCA) through UI Act of the National PuWnmt. KIRCA b u dcIipal a sa of
sauthorityrisitoand bmrpamt criteria for thc Iccxuimmt of bsrebar. Tbe mrin &maimof this
   u n d a d
                 screen, andcedea    pool of qurlifiedt m c b All whodr will tu- to d mw
teachers from thic pool of teachers ccrtificd by the Autbity(tucka aursntly intho ryroamwillbe
'grandfatherd'). This is Wig done on rbc Wu of radanic qurlificrtiats rad 8 s t m d d b d
examination condunad on a regular basis. Tbe 1L of praqwlifiedtertha, will be pbhbeda d




                                                   3 7

. .




       TeacherTrainingond Standardr

       To improve the quality of tbe tueheR wbo M                    in tJm ryotas MOE h, trlrea a
       comprehensive prckpoe of n f o m approved by thc Winot m 2005. Tbe N W AGdsmy of
       Education Management (NAEM) baa bem identifiedam the apex body far t u c k hriniplIrd b u
       k e n given the nsponsibility for developing teacher bainhg policier aa        mu     aa
       regulatingand certifyingdl teacher erini institut#nr bathpublic rrd pri~rre.It krL0NAEM'r
                                                              -
       responsibility to e    m that teachers within the system am providedtmh@ to oon5i.Purlty uplpde
       their skills. NAEM will arrange compulsory in-service profdud daveloplreat orbripe fa dl
       serving untnincdheadteachers. Tbey will be registcd uqurlifisd berdt a c h w1corrplstionof
       this training. NAEM has also developed (L set of tclctdag stduds includinga anr; 6wreworkof
                                                                           -
       standards specifyingthe minimum levelcompctmciesfor dl Iclchm.

       To this end. MOE is taking a number of meaanus to transform md develop NAEM into an
       autonomousTcashcr EducationAuthority andstaffitaaxrdinglyby 2006.


       (c) tmproviq Currkvlvm und T&o&

       The objectivcd o f these initiatives arc to improve trrnspvency in tbe W ~ & Q md                O f
       textbookt, competitiveproductionof bcaer @ty         tatbooh ina c~a-uffsctiv~ timely m,
                                                                                          rrrd
       and to enhance emphasison cuniarlumdevetoprmnt.

       The National Curriculum and Textbook Board(NCTB), which falls pndrr tha authority of MO@,
       responsible for curriculumdevelopmentand tutbcolr pdudiun f a botht b                    a d
        levels. MOE Md MOPMEhaveworked togcthmradrestm&d NCIgto ldpnuefunctiom O fcbe
       textbook ud curriculum unih The c\rrricuhm! wing now aclusivelyf            m a               &&US
       and sylkbi; prepwin& testing, revisingand di-
        in the application of curriculum; liaisingwith NAEMand N.tionrlAordany of PrimUy E$mtm~
                                                                  a u r i ~ - , p r o v i c t i n g ~
        (NAPE) on the trtohcnt of curriculumin tucha training;and I W iwitb experts incxamdau
        and B S S ~ S S ~on ~the covcnge of curriculum. The tatbodr wing h rrrpauible for 0-t
        textbook developmmf production and distribution. n#e OM ut pow W l y OPQcd to
                          C   ~                                                                         O f

        competition All 21 textbooks for Grsdes 6 8 un produced compctitinly. plaprntion for 12




                                                    3 8

Co&ios




Mr. Paul WolfOwiQ
President, The World Bank




                             39


   x    1




.  .



       5 . . .    I




Y
v)
u
e,
f:
m

.-0
z3
14

      5 . .




.-
k
s




.-
Y
c,

8

                       Annex B: Achievements and Challenges inSecondary Education




                                                                                                       non-government schools (Table 1). This
                          Flgura 1 : Enrallm.ntand School8 (1980.2000)

    r 00                                                                                               reflects the pragmatic strategy o f GOBto
                                                                                           i < C D O   expand the supply of secondary schooling
    1 6 0  -.                                                                   L

                                                                                      T 22050          by involving the private sector in service
    4 00   --

 T-                                                                                    --  2 m o c
    3 50   -.                                                                                          provision, and stimulatingdemand for

    1 0 0 . -                                                                         .-~      ~ o o c
                                                                                                    1  education by subsidizing the cost of

 1 2 5 0 . .                                                                            _ _, 6 ~ o ~f  schooling. This section highlights some
    2 00   -.                                                                           .-'4000        of the achievements made by the sector.
     1 15  -.
                                                                                        --  '2000
     1 00  -.                                                                                          2.       Increased Demandfor Education

    0 10          ,@eo    ( P a l              .e80                  l o o 5    2900    *1ooco         and Gender Parity. Bangladeshhas made
                                               "L.,                                                    significant progress inincreasing
                                 .-BOYS    t G # r l s--+--Ssno.l.l




3.            Buildingpublic-privatepartnerships in the delivery of education. The growing demand for
education has been accompanied by a doubling inthe supply o f secondary schools over the same period.
This rapid supply response has primarily come fromthe private sector. As a result, today more than 98
percent o f secondary schools are managed by the private sector (with financial support from the
government). These private schools are legally not-for-profit institutions which charge fees and receive
public financing to pay for recurrent and capital expenses. Only a small fraction of the operating costs are
generated from fees. These institutions receive substantial government subsidies - 90 percent of salaries
for teachers, and block grants for construction and maintenance of schools. The Ministry o f Educationi s
responsible for monitoringthe utilization of these subsidies.


                                                                                                                          Share of Students
              Type of School                   Numberof Institutions                           Numberof Students          (%)

             IGovernment                    I  317                                        1    222125-                   12--                I

              Non-Government                   16245                                           7940009                    81



 There are purely privately operated and financed religious schools. There i s no systematic information on such
schools given that they are not officially recognized by the government. The share of secondary schools students
attending unrecognized religious schools i s not exactly known, however, till now has been low.




                                                                                    46

                                                                                        Share of Students
       Type of School            NumberofInstitutions          Number of Students       (%)
       Religious                 5536                          1619486                   17

      ITotal                    I22098                        I9781620                 I 100


4.        Conditional Cash Transfers. The government's strategy to increase secondary schooling among
females has been an internationally celebrated success. The Female Secondary Stipends (FSS) program
provides stipends and tuition waivers to females residing in non-municipal areas attending secondary
schools (with close to four million girls receiving stipends annually) - conditional upon maintaining
regular attendance, passing grades, and remaining unmarried while in secondary school. Although there
are leakages associated with these programs, they have been effective inenhancing access. The FFE
succeeded in sending poor children to school -it i s estimatedthat participationinthe FFEincreased the
probability of attending school by 20 percent. An additional year o f the FSS i s estimated to increase
female secondary enrollment by as much as eight percent.


ZII. Challenges Facing the Secondary Education Sector

5.        Despite the achievements made in the secondary education sector, the overall system still
continuesto suffer from quality and governanceproblems reflected in poor outcomes. High-levels of
student truancy2, lack of teacher motivation and absenteeism, limited teacher-pupil classroomcontact
time, and inadequate curriculum, all contribute towards poor learningoutcomes. At the secondary level,
less than 40 percent o f the students pass the standardized examinations at grades 10 and 12. Out of every
100students that enter grade six, less than 10complete grade 12owing to highdropout and low
completionrates. There are very few and limited internationally comparable test scores fromsecondary
schools inBangladesh. Studies on schooling achievement suggest that many students complete
secondary schooling without having acquired basic mathematical, reading or writing skills.

6.        Secondary school completion rates are low. While completionrates inlower secondary (grades
6-8) are relatively high, there i s a precipitous drop inupper secondary school (9-10) completionrates
(Table 2). This i s primarily due to the fact that while lower secondary school exams are school-based
exams which are not properly scrutinized, upper secondary school exams are standardized at the national
level - hence making it difficult to mask deficiencies inthe quality o f schooling.


     Grades            Gross Enrollment Rate (%)             NetEnrollment Rate (%)    Completion Rate (%)
                      Total                      Female      Total      Female         Total        Female
     6-8               60.40                     65.77       52.79      57.47          81.30        83.20
     9-10              44.18                     45.28       32.93      33.69          48.40        46.60
     11-12             17.10                     13.20       13.89      10.55          56.20        57.40




  A recent sample survey of secondary schools found that only 41 percent of registered students were present during
the start of the school during the day of the school visit (FMRP2005).




                                                            47

7.        The completionrates inTable 2 refer to the completion among individuals who have appeared in
the standardized examinations. The true completionrate - i.e. pass rate inthe SSC (grade 10) and HSC
(grade 12) standardized examinations - i s a significantly lower proportion of students who are enrolled in
grade 10and grade 12respectively. The number of students appearing inthe standardized examinations
i s often lower than those are enrolled in grades 10 and 12because many students fail inthe school-based
screening examination to determine their eligibility for SSC and HSC examinations. Interventions put in
place by the Government seemto be having a positive impact on pass rates, but there i s still a long way to
go.

8.        Limited coordination betweenprimary and secondary education sub-sectors. The poor
performance at the secondary level i s linked to the poor quality of education at the primary level. One
study found that 70percent of primary students intheir sample who hadcompleted fifth grade were not
minimally competent in ~ r i t i n gAn               . ~ area of continuingconcern is the lack of effective coordination
between the Ministry that oversees primary education (MOPME) and MoE. International experience
points to the necessity o f close linkages between primary and secondary education. The quality of one
system affects the other - graduates from primary education are inputs to the secondary education system,
and teachers inprimary school are usually drawn from secondary education graduates. There i s large
potentialfor synergies which would help rationalize and strengthen the entire system, especially inareas
where the same institutions are usedby both ministries (e.g. National Curriculum and Textbook Board).
Efforts to bringabout greater coordination are now being engendered by the Prime Minister's office.
However, it i s too early to say whether these efforts will be successful.

9.         Thepoor are still left out. Despite public financing and the rapid rate o f increase insecondary
 school enrollment, most poor children are still unable to afford the (direct and indirect) the expenses of
 secondary schooling. While there are nearly as many poor children as non-poor children enrolled at the
primarylevel, at thejunior secondary level (grades 6 4 , this proportion drops to 33 percent, and drops
further to around 20 percent at the secondary (grades 9-10) and higher secondary (grades 11-12) levels.
While public expenditures at the primary level are generally pro-poor, only 24 percent o f the public
 secondary education spending benefits the poor (Figure 2). Religious secondary schools tend to serve
I                                                                                relatively poorer segments o f the
                  Figure2: DistribUIion of Public EXpendltU188tn Education       population - a recent survey found that
                                                                                 these schools had a higher share o f pupils
                                                                                 coming frompoor households compared
                                                                                 to secular schools (FMRP2005).


                                                                                 10.       Poor system quality is directly
                                                                                 related to the lack of effective
                                                                                 governance, accountability and
                                                                                 community oversight. Inthe past, there
                                                                                 has been little accountability o f either
                                                                                 teachers or school management
                                                                                 committees to the pupils and communities
                                          IUPmr ONon-poor1                       they serve. The government not only has
                                                                                                    -
 the responsibility of financing services, but must also play a major role inmonitoring and enforcing that
 providers are delivering the services properly. Besides the need of government oversight and




                                                                            48

enforcement, parentskommunities must be delegated certain responsibilities to hold providers
accountable. Some key governance and accountability issues inthe secondary school sub-sector are
system management; teacher effectiveness; and textbooks and curric~lum.~

SystemManagement

Enforcement of School Establishment and Registration criteria..            .

11.       The Department of Secondary and Higher Education(DSHE)5approves setting up ofjunior
secondary schools (grades 6-8) and the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Educationfor schools with
grades 9 and above.6 There are fairly comprehensive criteria for granting approval such as distance from
nearest school, land, number o f students, physical state of the classrooms and library,laboratory
equipment, and teacher qualifications. Once the school has been inexistence for three years, it becomes
eligible receiving public subsidies (`recognition'). Recognition i s governed by the criteria mentioned
above, along with the performance inthe standardized grade 10 (SSC) examinations. Despite the fact that
over 50 percent of these non-government schools have pass rates below the required SSC exam pass rate,
they continue to receive public funding.

12.       Inpracticethese criteriaare rarely enforceddue to genuinelack of oversight capacity and
deliberate political machinations. There are only a limited number of personnel involved ininspecting
schools and monitoringthe approval process. Given the sharp increase inthe number o f non-government
secondary schools -by about 25 percent between 1998 and 2002                 - increasing   pressure has been placed on
officials at the zonal and district levels who are required to inspect the schools for approval andor
recognition. Given that a handful o f officials have the impossible task o f monitoring thousands of schools
-inessence,thereisnorealsupervision. Besidesthefactthatoverburdenedofficialsarefailingto
properly scrutinize the applications for recognition and monitor schools after they have become eligible
for public funding, there are numerous instances o f political interference and rent seeking. It should then
come as no surprise that between 1999 to 2003, almost all the private schools that sprung up were
recognized and received public funding.

Transparency injnancing of schools...

13.       Once a school i s recognized, it receives monthly government subventions. This payment scheme
i s known as the Monthly Pay Order (MPO). The MPO scheme was initiated inthe 1970s and prescribes a
fixed and uniformproportion o f salary grants to be extended to all non-governmental teachers and
employees o f all recognized educational institutions. The present system o f subvention grants started out
at 50 percent of the initial step o f the national pay scale (of salaries given to government school teachers).
This has subsequently increased. The government now finances 90 percent of the salaries of teaching
staff innon-government schools. To ensure that schools have an incentive to maintain highlevels of
performance, the subventions are supposed to be linked to performance criteria -however these
performance criteria were not clarified in the past. Inpractice, till recently, once schools attained
eligibility to receive the MPO, subsidies flowed regardless o f performance. This i s demonstrated by the
fact that between 1999-2003, almost no schools had their subventions suspended. As discussed later in

   See also Bangladesh: Education Sector Review. World Bank (2000)
  The DSHE i s the mainagency for implementing government policies in secondary education.
   Five regular, geographically-based BISE exist (Dhaka, Comilla, Rajshahi, Jessore and Chittagong).        BISE'Sare mainly
responsible for two functions: accreditation o f non-government secondary institutions; and administration o f the SSC and HSC
examinations.




                                                             49

the document, the Government has taken significant steps to amend, enforce and monitor the MPO
system and link it with performance.

Centralizationand Community Oversight...

14.       On paper, the organizational structure of MoE appears appropriate, with adequate autonomy and
accountability built inboth at the central level as well as lower administrative levels to effectively manage
and monitor the overall system. However, practices differ from this design. The planning wing of the
M o E i s weak, and an important lacuna i s the inadequate use o f data inpolicymaking. Capacity to
diagnose the source of performance problems accurately or to monitor the consequences o f any policy
changes which attempt to improve performance i s limited.

15.       While decentralization i s a stated objective of the Government, so far no real fiscal or
administrative powers have been devolved below the center. There are few staff at zonal and district
levels to monitor, evaluate, inspect and audit schools. There i s no permanent staff at the upazillalevel.

16.       Inprinciple, there shouldbe a strong institutionalmechanismfor communityparticipationinthe
secondary educational system. School managing committees (SMCs) are requiredinall recognizednon-
government secondary schools (grades 6-10) and GoverningBoards (GBs) inhigher secondary
schoolshtermediate colleges (grades 11-12). These school committees are supposed to play a critical
role inthe hiringof teachers, monitoring school performance, and the presence of students and teachers
duringschool hours. These functions are even more critical given the lack of government capacity to
monitor at the school level.

17.       These SMCs and GBs were often dominated by local politicians. Some local politicians and
members o f parliament routinely chaired 20-30 SMCs/GBs, and often used their influence over these
committees for their political benefit -not necessarily to maximize school quality. SMC members often
doled out teachingjobs to unqualified relatives. Sometimes they charged teachers for these jobs - a
recent survey conducted in2003 found that a third of head teachers and almost half o f all assistant
teachers had paid SMC members to secure their posts (FMW 2005). The political interference had led to
an apparent lack o f interest of genuine community members and guardians to actively participate in
SMCs/GBs.

Information Dissemination and Evaluation of Perfoimance...

18.       The Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Statistics (BANBEIS), under M o E oversight, collects
essential data on secondary and higher education, and has recently completed a comprehensive school
mapping exercise which provides information on school facilities, teachers, and results o f standardized
examinations. However, there i s limited coordinationbetween BANBEISDSHE and the planning unit in
MoE. Given the lack of coordination, there is an underutilization of BANBEIS capacities. Data
collected by BANBEIS i s rarely used by M o E for evaluating programperformance and incorporatingdata
analysis into decision-making. Recently MOE has, however, made a conscious effort to support
evaluation of i t s existingprograms and new initiatives to improve upon program effectiveness. MOE has
supported a recent evaluation of the female stipend program, and i s currently engaged in discussion with
the World Bank on identifying new evaluation studies to empirically establish the policy basis of next
education sector reforms.




                                                        50

19.     Finally, till recently there was no systematic dissemination of school-specific performance
indicators to communities -which would help parents assess the quality of their schools and to help
informdiscussions with school managementcommittees.

Teacher Effectiveness

Conditions of Employment...


insecondary schools (Figure 3). Teachersin
government schools (comprising less than five                                          Flgurc 4 Teachws In SaS0nd.v Schools

percent of all teachers) are recruited as civil            Xmm                                                                                    ,730


servantsthrough the Public Services Commission                                                                              .............,_..--.l mb

and deployed by the government. Whereas                    s = - - *               / . . ' =               ........'.._.a"                      --1130

teachers inprivate schools are recruited directly
by the school and do not become civil-servants.            2   m  -                                                                            -.?3mj
The appointment procedure of non-government               5
                                                                                                                                                        #
                                                           'sox-.
secondary school teachers i s clearly laid out in                                                                                               --12m


government rules and regulations, and the SMC i s                                                                                               - - > > m
                                                           lMooo--                    ._..__:
responsible for supervising the appointments                            .,..
                                                                           ..."...*...    ...d                                                  -->om

procedure. The processincludes placing an                   5moD1                                                                                  D co
                                                                     lSB0                   ,990           1981        ,517                xrm
advertisement inthe press, an examination for all                                                         "..I


candidates, and teaching of a demonstration class.                                              --ofel.-.      -%FmoI.l




21.      The hiring system, however, has been open to abuse and rent-seeking. A combination of the lack
of MoE's monitoring capacity, and inadequatecommunity/parental participationinSMC' s/GB' s has
contributed to frequent violation of hiring practices. As schools needfunds for runningcosts they request
 'donations' from those wishing to teach at the school. Poorer, better-qualifiedapplicants are overlooked
infavor of candidates who cancontribute to the school's finances. Pressureis alsoput onthe school to
appoint relatives of Managing Committee memberskhairperson or those inpowerful positions within the
community.

22.      Ingovernment schools, teachers arepaid according to the civil servicepay scale. Innon-
government schools, teachers' incomes are supplementedthrough payments made over and above the 90
percent subvention paid by the government. This amount varies considerably - at one extreme a few
schools pay over 100 percent more than the subvention paid by the government, while at the other - and
more frequent - extreme, schools do not pay any additional amount. Furthermore, the government's
contribution i s fixed at the lowest level of the salary scale and rarely increases over time -hence, many
years pass before a teacher receives a salary increase. Given these conditions, teachers often resort to
 supplementing their income- either through private tutoring or through activities unrelated to teaching -
leadingto teacher absenteeismand low quality of teaching during school hours.

 Teacher Training/Standards..

23.      Effective pre-service and in-service teacher training are key to developing better teachers.
However, currently about 150,000 teachers at the secondary level are untrained, and every year close to
 8,000 new teachersjoin the system- many of whom do not receive any training. There are currently
about 70 public and private institutions providing teacher training. The NationalAcademy of Educational




                                                        51

Management (NAEM)is responsible for overseeingteacher training, and is inthe process of upgrading its
capacity and those of teacher training institutionsto ensure that the skills of boththe stock and flow of
teachers are upgraded ina standardizedmanner.

Textbooks and Curriculum

EfSectiveNational Curriculum and TextbookBoard (NCTB)...

24.     The NationalCurriculumand Textbook Board(NCTB) becamefully functional inJuly 1984.
NCTB i s responsible for developing curriculum and publishingand distributing standardtextbooks. Its
two professional wings - the curriculumand textbook units,respectively - correspond to these two
purposes. Most of the effort i s concentrated on the textbook productioncycle. The NCTB produces some
55 millionprimary and 26 million secondary texts annually.

25.     As the curriculumand textbook wings operate indifferentfields, they require specialist staff with
completely different skills. Inother countries where the state is responsible for both curriculumand
textbooks, the equivalent entities are more often than not entirely independent of one another and staffed
with qualified professionals. InBangladesh, the demarcation between the two wings was blurred till
recently and there was a substantial degree of overlap - with the curricula wing staff often performing
duties that the textbook wing was supposedto undertake.

Transparency in Manuscript Approval and TextbookProduction..        .

26.     An important role of NCTB is the approval of textbook manuscripts. However, the manner in
which NCTB evaluated manuscripts was not transparent. This applied particularly to private sector
publishers involved inthe limited amount of competitive bidding open to them. Criteria and ratings inthe
selection process were not madepublic, nor were they made available to the author submittinga
manuscript.

27.     Textbook publishingfor the secondary sector was also not open to competition - publishingand
printingwere undertakenby firms chosenby NCTB without recourseto a competitiveprocess. The lack
of competition ledto rent-seeking, and was responsible for poor textbook quality, highproduction costs,
and unavailability of textbooks to schools ina timely manner.

28.     The processof manuscript evaluation and textbookproductiodpublishing is now being
significantly overhauled to make the processtransparent and competitive.




                                                      52


                      Annex C: Data Monitoringand Performance Evaluation

A. Monitoring and Evaluatingthe ESDSCReformProgram

1.       The programencompasses a wide range of institutionaland technical reforms. A standard impact
evaluation framework (which at the minimumrequires pre-intervention data, a well definedcontrol and
treatment group, and post-intervention data) cannot be used to assess the causal impact o f this
heterogeneous reformprogram on governance, accountability, and school quality. This i s different from
evaluating the impact of a project or a specific component of a reformprogram. The reformprogram
does indeedcall for more systematic support for rigorous impact evaluations of various key interventions
inthe education sector. The reformprogramalso calls for strengthening and harmonizingdata-systems to
ensure that policymakershave access to timely and credible education data.

2.       All key reformactions inthe series of the ESDSC programmatic loans are tied to well-defined
indicators which can be monitored- both quantitatively as well as qualitatively. Inorder to ensure that
this happens, the key data sources that are going to be utilized include:

0   HouseholdData. The key data source will be the HouseholdIncome and ExpenditureSurvey (HIES)
    that i s conducted by the census bureau on a regular basis. Theses household surveys play a critical
    role inproviding another source of independent data on critical educational outcomes (e.g., primary
     school completionrate).

0    School-levelAdministrativeData. The Bangladesh Bureau of EducationalStatistics (BANBEIS)
    collects/compiles critical secondary-school level data on enrollment, age and gender distribution,
     certain measure o f school efficiency (e.g., drop-out rate), teacher characteristics, school infrastructure,
    and school type (government, private nonreligious, religious). These data are going to be collected on
    a national level at three yearly intervals and on a sample basis annually.


0    Third-party Surveys. Additional evaluative information will be collected usingindependent third
     party surveys. These include expenditure reviews, surveys to monitoring teacher absenteeism,
     stipend audits, impact evaluation of the girls stipend programand the pilot means tested stipend
    program, surveys to cross-check and scrutinize the selection process o f the NTRCA, and surveys to
     examine whether the textbook competition process i s working effectively.

3.       Baseline data on most indicators has been collected from the HIES and BANBEIS databases.
Evaluation o f the effectiveness of the overall reforms program will be undertaken based on the results of
the above mentionedsurveys. The Table below lists the main indicators that will be measured, the key
measurement instrumentddata collection techniques, and the baseline and target indicators.




                                                       53

Key Reforms                              Measurement                Baseline (ifapplicable) and Target          1
                                          Instruments                       Values for Indicators

Improved enforcement in           Independent third-party         rarget value -By 2008, at least 75% of
registration and establishment of surveys to examine criteria     ;ampled schools establishedhegistered
institutions                      followedby independently        'ollowing proper criteria.
                                  hired providers
Enhanced equity in access -       HIES, BANBEIS school-level      3aseline: 24% in2002
Proportion of public resources    data                            rarget: 33% in2008
targeted to the poor
Greater transparency infinancing  Independent third party         Baseline:70% in2003
institutions -Proportion of       surveys to examine whether      rarget: 20% in2008
schools not meeting eligibility   financing criteria are being
criteria but receiving MPO's      adhered to, Expenditure
                                  tracking surveys
Improved accountability through   BANBEIS school-level data,      Enrollment Rates by Gender at primary and
monitoring of expenditures and    HIES                            Tecondary levels:
                                                                  Baseline:50% in 2003
                                                                  Target: 50% in2008
                                                                  Gross enrollment rates:
                                                                  Baseline: 40% in2003
                                                                  Target: 52% in2008
                                                                  Pass rates in SSC examination:
                                                                  Baseline: 40% in2004
                                                                  Target: 55% in2008
                                                                  Dropout rates in secondary cycle:
                                                                  Baseline: 30% in2003
                                                                  Target: 20% in2008
                                                                  CompletionRate at Primary Level:
                                                                  Baseline: 65% in2003
                                                                  Target: 80% in2008
                                                                  Unit costs/completer:
                                                                  Baseline: $150 in2003
                                                                  Target: $120 in2008
Enhanced community                Third party qualitative surveys B y 2008, all SMCs/GBs elected using new
Participation inSMCdGBs           to study role of community in   criteria. Qualitative surveys show an
                                  school management               increased level of community participation in
                                                                  the management of institutions.
Improved financial management - Thirdparty qualitative            50% of audit objections addressed
functional financial management   surveys, administrative MOE     satisfactorily by 2008. Financial
unit,backlogs onaudit             data                            management unit working effectively.
reconciliations addressed
 Teacher Quality..   .
 Transparency in selection and    Third party surveys to          NTRCA certification processesfound to be
 employment of teachers           scrutinize NTRCA processes,     transparent. B y 2007, all new teachers hired
                                  BANBEIS school-level data       inschools are certifiedby NTRCA.
 Improved teacher quality -       Thirdparty surveys to            Teacher absenteeism:
 teacher absenteeismrates,        examine teacher absenteeism,    Baseline: 17% in2003
 proportion of secondary school   BANBEIS school-level data       Target: 10% in2008
 teachers trained                                                 Proportion of teachers trained:
                                                                  Baseline: 10% in2003
                                                                   Target: 25% in2008




                                                       54

Key Reforms                                 Measurement             Baseline (if applicable) and Target
                                             Instruments                    Values for Indicators
Textbooks and Curriculum..      .
NCTB restructuring completed       MOE administrative data        All curriculum wing staff transferred to the
                                                                  revenue budget by 2007.
Enhanced competition intextbook    Third party surveys to         Proportion of books produced competitively:
production and publishing -        evaluate competitive process.  Baseline: 0% in2003
competitive process inproduction                                  Target: 100% in2008.
of textbooks, timeliness of book                                  Timeliness in book distribution:
distribution, cost of books.                                      Target: All books distributed before
                                                                  beginning of academic year by 2008.
                                                                  costs:
                                                                  Target: Average market costs of books drops
                                                                  by 20% by 2008.
                                                                  Studies show that curriculum revisions have
                                                                  immoved curriculum aualitv

4.        Since BANBEISdata i s a key input to measuring the impact of the ESDSCreform program,
improving the quality of this data i s critical. The sectionbelow highlights some of the reforms that are
beingproposed inorder to enhance the effectiveness of BANBEISdata.

B. Improving the Quality ofBANBEIS Data

5.        The BangladeshBureauof EducationalStatistics (BANBEIS)is the data reference point for
GoBMOE on student enrollment, age and gender distribution, school efficiency (e.g., drop-out rate),
teachers, school infrastructure, and school type (government, privatenonreligious, religious). BANBEIS,
which was establishedin 1977, is the primary technical arm of the MOE which has been maintaining
severalpost-primary education and GIs mappingdatabase systems. The strengthof any data systemhas
to be measuredby the adequacy of the timing inwhich it supplies the data, the quality of the data, and
how this data can be linked with other pertinent informationto facilitate comprehensive analysis to guide
dynamic policymaking.

(1)Timing ofData CollectionandQuality ofData

6.        Currently the most systematic and credible data on secondary schools is collected
(approximately) every five years via a school census. Enumerators are sent to survey all secondary
schools (and other higher learning institutions) inthe nation. The spacing between the census is,
however, too long to allow for dynamic policymaking which requires update on data on a muchshorter
interval. As modifications inexistingprograms are made and new interventions are piloted, lack of
adequate data on the impact of these changes constraint the information set of policymakersand deny the
proper basis to judge impact.

7.        BANBEISalso maintains adatabase on schools from self-reported data on a shorter cycle
(approximately every year, or every other year). BANBEISsends out a data form which i s filled by
headmasters (supposedto be cross-checked by UnionEducationOfficers) and sent back to BANBEIS for
entry andprocessing. This type of self-reported schooling data forms the bed-rock of most Education
Management Information Systems (EMIS) of this world (inboth developing and developed countries).
Most self-reported EMIS systems inthe developing world suffer from the same problems: some schools
don't send back forms, information i s not providedfor some variables, incorrectinformation i s provided




                                                       55

for some variables (e.g., enrollment), etc. These problems are rarely flagged (far less corrected), given
that there i s no systematic demand to analyze the data. Even if aggregate tables are prepared at the
national or sub-national level, the data reportingi s usually at a macro/meso level - which masks micro
deficiencies indata.

8.      The next post-primary school Census i s scheduled for this calendar year. BANBEIS and the WB
are currently engaged in discussionregarding the structure of the planned Census and financing issues.
Given that the Census i s too far apart, there i s the need o f more reliable data on an annual cycle. The
quality o f the self-reported data could be improved by hosting workshops with BANBEIS, headmasters,
Union and District EducationOfficers, and MOEto: a) help train the headmasters to fill out the forms
properly; b) signal to headmasters that these self-reported forms are taken seriously and data reporting
should be consistent. Enumerators could also be set to a sub-set of schools every year to do a sample
survey. A limited, but essential set o f informationcould be credible collected in this manner - which
could meet most policy needs. BANBEIS actually does a sample survey once ina while inbetween
census rounds, however, so far this has not been systematic, and it i s not clear how BANBEIS uses this
information to cross-check self-reported data. BANBEIS, MOE, and the World Bank are currently
discussing these issues and workshops are being planned to operationalize these concerns.

(2) Strengtheningthe datahosting and data-consistency-checkingcapabilities

9.      While BANBEIS has done a great job inhostingvarious data sources and linkingit with GIs
maps, additional technical capacity and funds could help to strengthen its hosting/archiving capacities.
BANBEIS, MOE, and WB are currently discussing ways to finance the provisiono f better training, better
hardwarehoftware, and additional staff with key responsibility to properly host the data. This could be
combined with specific training indata consistency checking, if necessary funding o f additional staff with
key responsibility over data consistency checks.

(3) Linking BANBEIS and EducationBoardDatabase

10.      While BANBEIS i s responsible for enrollment, student demographic, teacher, and school
infrastructure data, various EducationBoards are responsible for student-level test score data, and within
the secondary school sector context, the crucial Secondary School Completion (SSC) at the student-level.
Currently BANBEIS only reports the average SSC pass-rate at the school-level. For student-level test
scores we have to rely upon the EducationBoards. The problem i s that the education boards use their
own school codes (even schools are spelled different); and unlike BNBEIS, even their regional codes are
not consistent with BBS. Essentially we have two critical data sets which cannot be matched. L o w SSC
pass rates are a major concern in Bangladesh. If we could match the two data sets, GOBcould do detailed
analysis o f how student, teacher, and school characteristics are related to student-level test outcomes, to
inform more detailed policy discussion at a national-level.

11.      Given that the EducationBoards are also under the purview o f MOE, it i s a fairly simple task to
direct the EducationBoards to use the same school codes as BANBEIS inthe near future. The WB i s
currently engaged indialogue with MOEto discuss a workshop between MOE, BANBEIS and the
EducationBoards regarding data harmonization.




                                                        56

     AnnexD: EnhancingCommunityParticipation StrengtheningtheRolesof School
                                                                 -
                                        ManagementCommittees

Background

1. Bangladeshhas an institutionalized mechanismfor community participationinits educational system.
School managing committees (SMCs) and governing bodies (GBs) are requiredin all recognized non-
government secondary schools and intermediate colleges, respectively. Their roles have been
institutionalizedthrough the 1977 Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education (BISE) regulations
governing the formation o f SMC's. The membership o f the SMCs consists of a chairman, a member-
secretary and nine other members:

0   a chairman -the district commissioner, an upazilla officer, or an individual nominatedby the BISE;
0   a member-secretary    - theheadmaster/headmistress of the school; and
0   Nine members, including:
         h two teachers electedby the teachers from among themselves;
         h four guardiandparents to be elected among the guardiadparents of the students from among
         >   themselves;
             one founder elected by founders7from among themselves;
         h one donor electedbydonors' fromamong themselves; and
         >   one local community member interested ineducation nominated by the district education
             office;

2. The management committee has a term o f three years and serves at the pleasure of the BISE and can
be dissolved on the recommendation o f MOE on grounds of inefficiency, financial irregularity or
mismanagement.

         According to the 1977 regulations, key functions of the SMC's include:
0    appointing, suspending and dismissingteachers;
0   monitoring school performance and teacher and student attendance;
0   raising and managing funds and creating endowments for the school; and
0    approving annual budgets including the development budget for the school;

3. All non-government schools inBangladeshhave functioning school management committees.

Issues

4. The structure of the managementcommittee and its functions are geared towards ensuring that
communities are closely involved inthe operations o f the schools and can support the headmasters in
managing the school effectively.

5. However these bodies are not functioning effectively. A key problem i s that o f `elite capture'.
Exploiting the loophole inthe selection o f the chairmanship o f SMCs - which allows BISE to nominate

  A founder is an individual who contributed at least Tk. 15,000towards the establishment of the school or who
donated land upon which the school was built.
* A donor isan individual who donates at least Tk. 10,000 towards the operation of the school at any time after the
school has been established.




                                                          57

the chairperson - politicians andMembers of Parliament have frequently exerted pressure inorder to get
chosenfor these positions. Members of Parliament andpoliticians routinely chair 30-40 SMCs (and in
some instancesover 100SMCs) and often use this position for political gaidfavor.

6. A critical factor underlyingthe `elite capture' is the fact that SMC's have the power to hireteachers.
While criteria for hiring of teachers are set, they are rarely followed and the processis open to abuse and
rent-seeking. SMC chairpersonsare inthe position to ask for `donations' from those wishing to teach at
the school. These `donations' are often of the order of 1-2lakhTaka (roughly $2000-$3500). Poorer,
better-qualifiedapplicants are overlooked infavor of candidates who can pay these donations. SMC
chairpersonsare also exert pressure to appoint their relatives or individuals inpowerful positions within
the community as school teachers.

7. The political interference has led to an apparentlack of interest of community members andguardians
to participate in SMCs and they are generally reluctant to play an active role. This has underminedthe
accountability of the school towards the community.

Reforms Undertaken

8. One of the positive aspects of the Bangladeshi systemat the secondary level i s the freedom students
have to attend the educational institution of their choice. Hence students, and their parents, do have a
voice as they can among schools on the basis of quality. However, this does not ensure community
participationinthe operation of the school.

9. A key step that the government i s taking inthis regard i s the provision of information - information
on standardizedexamination outcomes, school performance, and on programeffectiveness will be
disseminated widely down to the upazilla level. This will ensurethat students, parents and communities
will have the ability to make decisions about how a school is performing relative to others on the basis of
objective information.

10. Recognizing that it i s imperative to empower School Management Committees (SMCs) as they are
the key entity at the local level to monitor schools, especially on aspects related to the attendanceof
teachers and students, upkeep of physical infrastructure, and performance inexaminations, MOE has
engagedindialogue with stakeholders-including parents and community members -to design reforms
which will enhance community participation at the school level and ensurethat the problems statedabove
can be successfully resolved.

11.      As aresult of this, the following sets of reforms are beingimplemented:
0   First,the Regulations onManagingCommittees of the Registered Non-GovernmentSecondary
    Schools are being amendedto ensure that only the district commissioners, upazillanirbahi officers, or
    retired government officials nominated by them, can chair SMCs and that any particular individual
    (other than district commissioners or upazilla nirbahi officers) cannot chair any more than four
    committees. This will ensure that politicians or local elite cannot control a vast number of SMC's.
    MoE i s engagedincapacity buildingof SMC's to ensure that they perfomthese critical functions
    effectively.
    Second, the functions of SMC's are beingmodified so that they can play a more active role in
    monitoringwhat i s happening inthe school -especially interms of student and teacher attendance.
    Furthermore, given the extensive dissemination of results on standardizedexaminations, SMCs will




                                                        58

    play an active role indisseminating this informationto the community and holding regular meetings
    with the headteachers and teachers on how to ensure school performance improves.
0   Finally, the rules governing the hiringof teachers are being amended. To ensure standardized and
    transparent criteria are adhered to inthe recruitment of teachers, an autonomous Teacher
    AccreditatiodCertificationAuthority ( T U ) i s being established. This authority will screen and
    certify a pool o f qualified teachers. All schools will have to recruit new teachers from the pool
    selected by the authority (teachers currently inthe system will be `grandfathered' but have to become
    certified - see below). While SMCs will still retainthe authority and flexibility to recruit teachers,
    these teachers will have to be selected from the pre-qualified pool. This process will severely reduce
    rent seeking opportunities for the elite, thus reducingtheir incentives for chairing SMCs, which i s
    anticipated, in turn, to lead to greater involvement o f the community inthe functioning o f schools. It
    i s anticipated that these changes will enhance the power o f consumers to monitor and discipline
    providers and strengthen the role of parents in school management committees.

12. Inthe medium-term, a criticalreformthat is being envisaged i s the move towards a grants-based
financing system, where resources will be linked more closely to the student. Schools will not directly
receive salaries for teachers but will be given tuition grants - that can be used to pay teachers and well as
be used for other quality-enhancing purposes. The grants will be linked to the number o f students and to
school criteria reflecting performance as well as physical conditions o f the school, teacher qualifications,
and teacher and student attendance. Not only will this enhance the flexibility that schools have to choose
the proper mix between salaries and inputs, but it will give the community (and students and parents) a
greater choice inthe selection and operation of good-quality schools.




                                                       59

     0 0




0    0

0  0


                            i     W.
     - -m     -              ?    Y,
                                  .3

                     3
      Y
      d   Y     Y
      5   5           4

                 e,   6
      e
      g   ez   .->
                 e    Ee
      .3  .->         .->
      2B         K
           a,
          2    2      2a,




v1     F


                             Annex G: Economic and FinancialAnalysis


I. EconomicAnalysis

1, Improving governancehasrepeatedly beenidentifiedas the biggest development challenge facing
Bangladesh and the greatest impediment to achieving its growth potential and thus achieving the poverty
reductionMDG. The proposed credit will assist inleveraging reforms aimed at raising the quality of
service delivery, while at the same time, improving equity o f access. This will be done through putting in
place and implement policies that will address governance and quality issues through reforminkey areas
-systemmanagement(e.g. reformoftheMPOsystem,enforcingregulationsregardingregistrationof
new schools and colleges), teacher recruitment and training (e.g. Teacher Recruitment Authority,
consolidation of training under an apex organization), textbook reform (e.g. transparent criteria for
selection o f textbooks, clearly demarcating textbook and curriculum functions). Reforms are intended to
strengthen the implementation of government programs and activities carried out incollaboration with
other development partners. It i s intended that these reforms will lead to outcomes such as higher
enrollment rates, raised completionrates, decrease intime to complete the secondary cycle, and a
reductionin the unitcost per student completingthe cycle. B y altering the incentives for the financing
and provision o f education, and buildinggreater accountability inthe system, these reforms will reduce
rent seeking opportunities, enhance cost-effectiveness and quality of the education system.

(a)Rate of Return Analysis

2. Interms o f quantifiable benefits, it i s clear that the rate o f return to secondary education in
Bangladesh i s high. The standard rate o f return analysis was applied to the 1995/96 Household
Expenditure Survey data to estimate the private returns to schooling inBangladesh. Findingsshowed that
each additional year o f schooling yields about a 10 % return onthe earnings forgone by the household
(Table 1).




        Source: World Bank (2000), Bangladesh Education Sector Review, Dhaka

3. The estimated private rate of return i s muchhigher for women (16.5 percent) than men (9.2 percent).
The rate o f return for individuals inthe rural area was 9.5 percent, whereas the rate for those inurban
areas was 10percent. The earnings o f a primary school completer i s on average 52.6 percent higher
(annual rate of return of 10.5 percent) than those who have no schooling and those who have some
primary schooling but didnot complete it. The additional annual rate of return after completingjunior
secondary and secondary education i s 7.4 percent and 10.8 percent respectively.

4. The privatereturns based on estimatedMincerian regressions, take into account only the forgone
earnings (indirect costs) as the cost of education. Estimates o f social rates of return take into account the




                                                         65

individual and government cost of educational investment associated with moving an individual from one
education category to the next.

5. The social rates of return under three different cases are shown inTable 2.' The assumptions made in
the first case i s that the only benefits considered are the monetary benefits measured interms of increased
earnings. It i s assumed that an average student requires 3.8 years to complete a 3-year cycle ofjunior
secondary level and 2.6 years to complete a 2-year secondary cycle. The estimates suggest that the social
rate o f return for lower secondary education i s 8.3 percent and for secondary it i s 8.6 percent.

6. However, these estimates are obtained by ignoringnon-monetary gains and external benefits.
Theoretically, the social rate o f return should include non-monetary benefits or other external benefits -
benefits not captured by the individual student or if education i s treated as a family investment, by the
individual student and hisher family. Furthermore, improvements inthe governance o f the systemwill
lead to quality improvements which will also result inbenefits. Non-monetary benefits that can be
considered while estimating social rates of return are (a) gains due to improvements infamily and health
indicators and (b)reductions o f wastage interms o f dropouts and repetitions, thereby increasingthe
internal efficiency of the education system.

7. These are captured by Case B -it i s anticipated this case mimics the returns to the more efficient and
highquality systemthat the government is attempting to introduce.


                                               Junior Secondary                         Secondary
                                          Male       Female         Total     Male       Female      Total
            PrivateRates of Return          7.3        11.8          7.4       10.7         19.1      10.8
            Social Rates (CaseA)            8.4        9.3           8.3        8.6         16.2      8.7
            Social Rates (CaseB)           10.2        12.3         10.5       10.6        20.9       11.0

8. Inorder to quantify these non-monetary benefits for junior secondary and secondary education, it i s
assumed that improvements in family, health and other social indicators account for an increase inthe net
monetary earnings of 25 percent (junior secondary) and 20 percent (secondary) for females and 15
percent (junior secondary) and 10percent (secondary) for males. It i s also assumed that an average
student requires 3.6 years to complete a 3-year cycle o fjunior secondary level and 2.4 years to complete a
2-year secondary cycle (this i s discussed inmore detail below).

9. The results confirm that social rates of return for bothjunior secondary (10.5 percent) and secondary
(11percent) education are hightojustify government investment inthe sub-sector. Inparticular,
secondary education for females i s the best investment fromboth the individual and society's point of
view as shown by the private and social rate o f return o f about 19 percent and 21 percent respectively.




(b) Outcomes under Reform: Usingthe SIMSIP Simulator



 These rates have beencomputed for lower secondary- grades VI-VIII, and secondary - grades IX-X. They have not been
computedfor higher secondary (grades XI-XII).




                                                         66

10. Outcomes associatedwith improvedgovernance and quality have also been simulated using the
SIMSIP education simulator. This simulator simulateseducational outcomes and costs over aperiod of
15 years beginning with the implementation of policy changes. It essentially performs two tasks. First,it
computes the number of children enrolled invarious schooling cycles over time, together with statistics
on the efficiency of the education system. Second, it estimates the budgetnecessaryfor the education
systemto operate. The forecasts for the educational outcomes (number of students inthe systemand
efficiency parameters) are obtained usinga detailed cohort analysis. The cohort analysis tracks the pupils
entering the system through time as they progress from gradeto grade. It uses information on repetition,
promotion, and dropout rates per grade or per cycle to compute efficiency statistics (the age of the pupils
at entry ineachcycle is incorporated inthe analysis). Once the cohort analysis is completed, the simulator
computesthe cost of reaching education targets.

11. While the simulator is relatively sophisticated,its datarequirements are relatively few. Three sets of
assumptions must be enteredby the user inthe simulator: country demographics, the structure of the
education system(age at entry inthe various schooling cycles, number of studentsand teachers, coverage
and extent of teacher training, proportion of systemthat i s inthe public sector), and costs (supply-side
costs, including teacher wages and teacher-student ratios; demand-side costs related to the provision of
stipends to part of the student body; investment costs related to the training of new teachers andthe
construction of new classrooms; and administrative costs related to staffing bothat the central level and at
lower levels of government). Simulations are providedfor education outcomes or targets andfor the cost
of reaching these outcomes.

Alternative Scenarios

12. The SIMSIP model i s usedto simulate the outcomes (and costs) of policy changes associatedwith
reforms for Bangladesh inthe secondary education systems. While it i s not possible to use SIMSIP to
simulate costs and outcomes associated with all reforms," SIMSIP allows proxying for changes inmany
policy variables that the government i s intendingto implement inthe secondary education sector and
estimating related costs and outcomes. This section presentsthe outcomes associatedwith alternative
scenariosof reform. The model differentiates between secondary education (grades 6-10) and higher
secondaryeducation (grades 11-12).

13. The model has been used to simulate and proxy for five scenarios:

    Scenario Z - This i s the baseline scenario. No policy changes are implemented. The systemoperates
as at present;

    Scenario ZZ - The government supports more secondary schools (through increased subventions).
These changes are proxied inSIMSIP through increasing subvention costs and lowering the student
teacherratio;

    Scenario ZZZ -Management related changes are implemented inthe system. This implies that the
systemof registration of schools and colleges is enforced by MOE, the MPO systemi s tightened, and
over time greater devolution i s introducedinto the system with greater proportion of the financing also
coming from communities. InSIMSIP, these are proxied for through changes inextent of funding going

____    ~~




loFor example, using this model it i s difficult to simulate outcome and cost implications of textbook and cumculum reforms.
However NCTB i s self-financing, and so reforms are assumed to be cost-neutral.




                                                                 67

to private schools (e.g. better enforcement o f regulations will imply that the government funds fewer
though better quality schools; similarly greater community participationinfinancing will reduce the
government burden); and changes inadministrative costs (devolution o f authority to lower levels may
lead to an increase inadministrative costs);

     Scenario ZV -Teacher recruitment and training related changes are implemented. The government
hires more qualified teachers, invests more in teacher training and inensuring that teachers are meeting
training standards. InSIMSIP, these are proxied for through increases inproportion of teachers trained,
increases inteacher salaries, and a reduction inpupilteacher ratio.

     Scenario V- This i s a combination scenarios 11-IV,i.e. the government undertakes infrastructural
changes but simultaneously puts inplace and implements policies aimed at improving the management
o f the secondary and vocational system, and ensuring high standards are maintained inteacher
recruitment and training. Furthermore changes aimed at improving the content, timeliness and quality o f
textbooks and curriculum are also implemented (these are assumed to be cost-neutral as NCTB i s self-
financed).

Reform Implications: SIMSIP Simulations

Gross Enrollments

14. Currently, gross enrollment rates at the secondary level are close to 50 percent and at the higher
secondary level are about 17 percent. Table 3 presents increases inenrollments under different
scenarios."    Over a 15 year period, enrollment rates rise most rapidly under Scenario V inboth
secondary and higher secondary education.



              Scenarios                      Secondary                             Higher Secondary
                                   2008      I    2013       I  2018         2008     I     2013    1   2018
           Scenario I               6.6            9.3           13.0         2.1            2.3        3.4
           Scenario I1              6.6            9.5           13.6         2.1            2.3        3.7
           Scenario I11             4.1            5.8           8.9          1.3            1.2        6.2
           Scenario IV              6.6           10.4           15.7         2.1            2.6        8.0
           Scenario V               5.5           10.4           17.7         1.7            2.3        13.7



Completion Percentage

 15. Table 4 presents increases incompletionrates inthe alternative scenarios. Current completion rates
at the secondary and higher secondary level are around 40 percent for the SSC and 35 percent for the
HSC respectively. As modeled, there i s no increase incompletion rates inthe baseline scenario. Clearly
the maximum increase incompletionrates, both inthe short-run as well as inthe long-termoccurs under
scenario V - when all reformmeasures are implemented.




l1While Scenario Imaintains status quo - gross enrollments rise over time owing to country demographics.




                                                              68

Years to Complete

16. Table 5 presents the average decrease inyears to complete the two levels of schooling. On average,
the years to complete the five year secondary education cycle in2001/2 was about 6.5 years, while the
averageyears to complete higher secondary education was close to 3.5 years. ScenarioV shows the
steepest decline inyears to complete secondary and higher secondaryeducation.




17. Interms of key outcomes for the secondary and higher secondary educational system, scenarioV
seems to be the most effective alternative. While this is not surprising, as this scenario simulates the
implementationof a range of policies intended to enhance systemgovernance and improve the quality of
the system, acritical questionthat any government faces is that of the cost andthe cost-effectiveness of
implementingreforms. This i s discussedinthe section below.

II.FinancialAnalysis

(a)Financing of Secondary Education

18. This analysis examines the current and projected budget for the secondary education sector. As it i s
difficult to get an accuratebreakdown of budget data between secondary and higher secondary education,
the analysis inthis section presentsbudgetsfor the entire secondary education sector - grades 6-12. The
results under two cases are presentedhere: a base-case scenario and a highgrowth scenario (Tables 6 and
7).

19. The base-caseutilizes conservative assumptions regarding GDP projections and growth rates, based
on projections fromthe medium-term macroeconomic framework, jointly agreedwith the IMFand the
World Bank. GDP growth rate is assumedto be constant at 4.0 percent from 2003-09. This implies that
Government maintains sound macroeconomic management andproceeds with implementingthe reform
agenda. Total government budget as a percentage of absolute GDP is taken from IMFestimates and is




                                                    69

projected to increaseat a nominal rate from 14.5 percent in2001-02 to 15.5 percent in2007-09. The
proportion of education sector budget to Government of Bangladesh i s projected to remain constant at the
2001-02 level of 15.3 percent over the period 2003-09. And the proportionof education budget going to
the secondary sector is maintained at 2001-02 level of 43.1 percent. Finally, we assume that recurrent and
developmental spending, as aproportion of secondaryeducation budget, remain constant at 75 percent
and 25 percent respectively.




  billions)
  ...ofwhich                         0.326    0.375     0.392     0.403  0.419   0.433     0.450    .467
             development (US$
  billions)                          0.114    0.131     0.137     0.140  0.146   0.151     0.157    .164

20. The results of the base-case show that total government budget could increaseby about 41 percent
over the period 2003-08, from $6.78 billion in2001-02 to $9.57 billion in2008-09. Educationand
universal primary education more specifically i s a priority for the GOB. As a result of the increasein
overall government budget, the allocation for education is projected to increaseby approximately 45
percent over the period 2003-08, from $1.02 billionin2001-02 to $1.47 billion in2007-08. This i s still
fairly small -around 2.3% of GDP. Out of the total allocationto education, the share of the secondary
budget could increaseinreal terms over the period2003-08, from $0.440 billion to $0.631billionin
2008-09.

21. Inthe case of high-growth, GDP projections and growth rates based on high economic growth
scenario from IMFprojections. GDP growth rate is assumedto increase from 3.8 percent in2001-02 to
6.5 percent in2008-09. Total government budget as apercentageof absolute GDP i s taken from IMF
estimates and is projected to increasefrom 14.5 percent in2001-02 to 16.3 percent in 2008-09. The
proportion of education sector budget to Government of Bangladesh is projected to increasenominally
from 15 percent in2001-02 to 16 percent in2008-09. And, the proportion of education budget going to
secondaryeducation i s projected to increasefrom 43.1 percent in 2001-02 to 47.0 percent by 2007-08 (a
halfpercentagepoint increase annually). We continue to assume that recurrent and developmental
expenditures, as a proportionof secondary education budget, remain constant at 75 percent and 25 percent
respectively.




                                                     70

22. The results (Table 7) show that total government budget as a percentage of GDP could increaseby
about 70 percent over the period2003-08, from $6.78 billion in2001-02 to $11.58 billion in2007-08. As
aresult of increasethe increaseinoverall government budget, the allocationfor education i s projected to
increaseby over 80 percent over the period 2003-09, from $1.02 billion in2001-02 to $1.85 billionin
2008-09. Inthis case, the share of educational expenditures to GDP will rise to about 2.6 percent by
2008/09 which is still relatively low by international standards. Out of the total allocationto education,
the share of secondary education, inabsoluteterms could increase by about 90 percent over the period
2003-09, from $0.440 billion in 2001-02 to $0.870 billion in2008-09. The recurrent expenditure will
increasecorrespondingly from $0.326 millionto $0.635 million and the development expenditures from
$0.114 million to $0.235 million.

Table 7: High Growth Case Forecastsfor Secondary EducationBudget 2003-08 (Real US$ billions)
                                I 2001-02  I2002-03 2003-04 12004-0512005-0612006-07 2007-08 2008-09
                                                     I                                     1        1
IMFReal GDP Growth Baseline         3.8       5.2        5.5     6.0      6.5       6.5      6.5      6.5
Absolute GDP (in2001/2
values) (US$ billions)              46.9      49.37     52.08   55.21    58.79     62.62    66.69    71.02
Proportion of GDP to
 Government budget (%)              14.5      14.5       15.5     16      16.4     16.4      16.3     16.3
Total Government Budget (US$
billions)                           6.78      7.16       8.07    8.83     9.64     10.27    10.87    11.58
Proportion of Government
Budget to education (%)             15        15.3       15.4    15.6     15.8       16       16       16
 Total Government budget for
 education (US$ billions)           1.02      1.10       1.24    1.38     1.52      1.64     1.74     1.85
Proportion of education budget
 to secondary education (%)         43.1      43.6      44.1     44.6     45.1     45.6      46.1     47.0
 Totalsecondary education
 budget (US$ billions)             0.440      0.478     0.549   0.615    0.687     0.750    0.802     .870
 ...of which recurrent (US$
 billions)                         0.326      0.354     0.407    0.456    0.510    0.556    0.595     .635
 ...of which development (US$
 billions)                         0.114      0.124     0.142    0.159    0.178    0.194     0.208    .235



(b) Sustainability of Secondary Education Expenditures

23. Implementing reforms entails costs. Based on the cost analysis usingthe SIMSIP simulator, this
section attempts to simulate and assess the costs associatedwith implementingreforms aimed at
enhancing the quality and governanceof the system, and assess whether these costs are sustainable.

24. Inall five scenarios simulated through the SIMSIP simulator, the government would have to increase
its expenditure on education (Table 8). Even to maintain status quo - with no improvements in
completionrates or inaverageyears to complete the level, the government would have to spend about $32
million a year more than presently by 2008 and $132 millionmore per year by 2018. When the
government begins to implement reforms - especially under scenarios 111-V,the cost rises substantially.
For example, implementing better practices inteaching and recruitment of teachers (Scenario IV) would
cost an addition $86 milliodannum inreal terms by 2008 (and $344 million per annum by 2018).




                                                      71

Interesting, reforms improving systemmanagement (Scenario 111)are cheaper - while they yield fairly
similar outcomes to Scenario IV. The mainreason behind this i s probably that improved system
management involves factors such as buildingmore capacity at the upazilla and district level which could
result inhigher costs, while at the same time better enforcement of MPO regulations will ensure that the
government funds fewer schools thus reducingcosts. Scenario V, inwhich all reforms are implemented
would need increased investments to the tune of approximately $96 milliodyear by 2008 and $384
million a year more by 2018. Hence, under this scenario the government would almost double its current
investments in secondary and higher secondary education inreal terms by 2018.

25. I s this increased investment inreforms cost-effective? Current unitcosts per completer are roughly
$80 and $181 insecondary and higher secondary education respectively. Table 9 examines this issue by
looking at the unit costkompleter.

                       Table 8: IncreaseinRealAnnual Public Costs (US$ million)




26. The answer to the question i s yes - reforms have a significantly positive impact on reduction inunit
costs per completer (by about 20 percent at the secondary level and 70 percent at the higher secondary
level by 2018). It i s important to recognize that most savings are realized when all reforms are
implemented simultaneously (scenario V).




27.      Ifthe government aims to undertake reforms as describedinScenarioV, Chart 1shows the
distribution o f costs between recurrent costs, demand-side costs, and investment costs. Recurring costs
(dotted line inchart below) are the sum o f the expenditures on teacher wage bill and the administrative
costs associated with runningschools. The wage bill for the teaching staff i s the largest fraction of
recurrent costs. Demand-side costs (solid line inchart) are costs associated with providing stipends.
Supply-side investment costs (solid line inchart) are composed of three main components - the cost o f
paying teacher subventions, the cost o f training new teachers and the cost of training existing teachers. In
the Bangladeshi context (as i s true worldwide), recurrent costs will be the major portion o f total costs. In
this scenario, investment costs are expected to start rising slowly inthe short-run, but will increase fairly
sharply over time as greater investments inteacher training and subventions kick in- by 2018 investment




                                                      72

costs will be close to 20 percent of total costs. Finally, demand-sidecosts are expectedto remain fairly

                                      Chart 1: Cost Braakdown for Scomrio V




constant over time.




                                                       73


                                  Annex H:FundRelationsNote




Public Information Notice (PIN) No.05/90                               InternationalMonetary Fund
July 18, 2005                                                          700 19thStreet, NW
                                                                       Washington, D.C. 20431USA

           IMF ExecutiveBoard Concludes2005 Article IV Consultation with Banaladesh

  Public Information Notices (PINS)formpart of the IMF's efforts to promote transparency of
  the IMF's views and analysis of economic developments and policies. With the consent of the
  country (or countries) concerned, PINs are issuedafter Executive Board discussions of Article
  -consultationswithmembercountries,ofitssurveillanceofdevelopmentsattheregional
  IV
  level, of post-program monitoring, and of ex post assessments of member countries with longer-
  term program engagements. PINs are also issued after ExecutiveBoard discussions of general
  policy matters, unless otherwise decided by the ExecutiveBoard ina particular case.
--               -         ---_---ll_-._____.l-xII      --                          ___ -   -
    l__l_l___--                                                                                 ._.
                                                           -__-_I  - ___ I-_. .- ._


On June 29,2005, the Executive Board of the InternationalMonetaryFund(IMF)concluded the
Article IV consultation with Bang1adesh.l

Background

Since the last Article IV consultation, Bangladesh'seconomy has continued to expand, supported by
a stable macroeconomic environment and progress inimplementing structural reforms, broadly in
line with the recommendations made by the ExecutiveBoard. Real GDP growth i s projected at
5% percent inFY05 (ending June 30), reflecting a slight deceleration from 5% percent inFY04 due
to the impact of devastatingfloods last July. The floods damagedmajor crops, particularly rice.
This, together with anupswing inglobal oil and commodity prices, contributed to a surge in
inflation inlate 2004, which has since moderated and i s projected at an annual average of 6%
 percent inFY05.

As inthe previous two years, the fiscal stance has beenprudent, with the overall budget deficit
estimated at 4.2 percent of GDP inFY05 (from 3.2 percent inFY04), reflectinginpart flood relief
efforts. Revenuei s projected to increaseby 16 percent inFY05 (compared to 9 percent inFY04).
This outcome, however, falls short of the revenue effort of % percentagepoint of GDP inthe FY05
budget, reflectingdelays inthe implementationof tax administrative reforms and lingering
weaknesses inaudit and collection enforcement. Total spending i s projected to be 0.5 percent of
GDPlower than inthe revised budget, on account of lower-than-projected development
expenditure. The structure of deficit financing remains sound, with domestic financing capped at 2
percent of GDP, whereas external financing continues to be on concessional terms.




                                                  74

The external position strengthenedin2003-04, but pressures emergedat the beginningof 2005.
Export earnings have moderated since November 2004, reflecting mainly a sharp decline inprices
associatedwith the elimination of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) quotas on January 1,2005.
Imports have grown rapidly due to higher oil and commodity prices, an increase infood imports,
and stronger demand for investment goods. Oil imports are estimated to exceedforecast levels
significantly. The external current account is projected to move to a deficit of US$1.1 billion (or
1.8 percent of GDP) inFY05, fromnear balanceinFY04.

Since floating the exchange rate inMay 2003, the taka has depreciatedby 9 percent and 5 percent in
nominal and real effective terms, which has helpedboost the competitiveness of Bangladesh's
export sector. The authorities have confined their interventions to buildingreserves and to
countering disorderly market conditions duringa period of generally favorable balance of payment
conditions. To ease the pressurefrom multiple external shocks inearly 2005, BangladeshBank
(BB) sold some foreign exchangereservesinJanuary while allowing the taka to depreciateby
5 percent against the U.S. dollar. Taking into account higher payments for oil imports, gross
international reserves are projected at $2.7 billion at endJune 2005 (2.4 months of imports), after
peaking at US$3.2 billionat end-2004.

Monetary policy has been supportive of growth, but an accommodative stance inearly 2005
contributed to pressureson the exchange market. Reflecting inpart lendingto the agricultural sector
for flood rehabilitation and strong demand for credit ina low interest rate environment, reserve
money growth has acceleratedsince late 2004, while growth of private sector credit and broad
money have also increasedsharply. A decline inreal interest rates ledto a slowdown inthe net sales
of treasury securities by BB, with many banks holding treasury securities only up to the limit under
the Statutory Liquidity Requirement.

Goodprogress has beenmade instrengthening the banking system. BB has raised minimumcapital
requirements, taken steps to reduce insider lending, and has improved the institutional framework
for the prudentialsupervision of the financial system. As part of the reforms of the nationalized
commercial banks (NCBs), the information memorandum for the divestment of RupaliBank has
been issued, managementteams have been put inplace for Sonali and Agrani, and the contract for
Janata Bank was signedrecently. Performance under the Memorandumof Understanding between
BB andthe NCBs has been satisfactory, although there is scope for further increasingcash
recoveries from the largest defaulters.

Reform of tax administration has advanced, but has yet to translate into an acceleration of revenue
growth. The institutional structures have been set up, including the Large Taxpayer Unitsfor
income tax and VAT and the Central Intelligence Cell, but enforcement, audit and collection efforts
remain weak, reflecting capacity constraints and oppositionfrom vested interests. Extensivecourt
injunctions on tax cases have undermined the function of the National Board of Revenue. Two
benches in the HighCourt have now been createdto deal exclusively with tax cases and to expedite
the clearing process.

Progresshas beenmixed inreforming the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and their financial
conditions remain weak. On the positive side, the government adjusted prices for energy products in
December 2004 andJanuary 2005, in line with pricing formulas agreed with the World Bank. This
helped reducethe financial losses of energy sector SOEs and improve their viability. On the




                                                   75

negative side, after initial success inthe closure of manufacturing SOEs inFY03, further
closure/downsizing of SOEs stalled due to difficult labor issues. But these loss-making units can no
longer resort to bank financing or budgetary resources and have been encouragedto downsize
through hiringfreezes and a voluntary retirement scheme.

Significant headway was made on trade reforminFY05 through a reductioninthe level and
dispersion of duties and a streamlining of quantitative restrictions. The structure of customs duty
rates was simplifiedto three slabs, with the top rate reducedby 5 percent to 25 percent, and
supplementary duties were reduced. These measures have significantly loweredthe dispersion of
custom duties. Quantitative restrictions were streamlined, with a simplification of administrative
procedures and a halving of the number of restricted products starting April 2005.

Executive BoardAssessment

The Executive Directors commendedthe Bangladeshauthorities' efforts inmaintainingeconomic
stability and inadvancing the structural reform agenda, in spite of a difficult political environment
and external shocks. Directors welcomed the buoyant economic growth, moderate inflation, and the
rise ininternationalreserves since July 2004. Lookingforward, Directors underscoredthat
Bangladesh faces the key challengesof accelerating growth and maintainingmacroeconomic
stability while overcoming the potentially significant impact of the MFA phaseout. They also noted
that structural weaknesses-including the country's low revenue base, weak infrastructure, and
inefficient public enterprises-continueto pose serious obstaclesto private sector development.
Directors therefore called for the continuation of core reforms intax administration, banking, and
the energy sector, as well as improvedgovernance, to enhancethe business environment, promote
export diversification, and facilitate economic recovery and poverty alleviation.

Directors welcomed efforts to finalize Bangladesh'sNational PovertyReductionStrategy Paper,
which will serve as aroadmap for meeting the MillenniumDevelopment Goals. They concurred
with the PRSPs focus on fiscal reforms and the development of anti-poverty programs within the
context of a medium-termbudgetary framework. However, they acknowledged that the elimination
of the MFA quotas, the country's susceptibility to natural disasters, and a confrontationalpolitical
environment pose risks towards achieving this goal.

Directors were encouragedby the authorities' resolve to improve revenue mobilizationthrough
strengthenedtax administration and to support pro-poor expenditures while protectingfiscal
sustainability. They stressed that effective implementationof tax administration measures and strict
enforcement are vital to the revenue effort, and will require strong political support. Directors noted
that modernizingthe NationalBoard of Revenue (NBR) along functional lines i s also a critical step
toward developing a more effective tax administration. They therefore welcomed the authorities'
intention to implement the Strategic ReformPlanfor the NBR with World Bank assistance.
Directors also stressedthat current expenditures needto be contained and the development budget
strengthenedthrough better project selection, improvedprocurement management, and timely
compliance with policy conditions for project financing. Directors supported the government's
intention to curtail and phase over three years the public sector wage increases while protectingpro-
poor expenditures. The importance of aligning such increaseswith civil service reform was
emphasized.




                                                   76

Directors expressedsupport for Bangladeshto maintaina flexible exchange rate systembasedon
market principles.They stressedthat the system should be allowed to operate as intended, especially
duringa time of market pressures. Inview of an adverse external environment andexchange market
pressures,Directorsnoted that this would be particularly importantfor preserving competitiveness.
They supported the authorities' intention to continue to confine their interventions inthe exchange
market to countering disorderly conditions, to abandonthe use of suasion, and further develop the
operations of the exchangemarket.

Directors noted that a tight monetary stance is important to contain inflationary pressures. Inthis
context, BB i s encouragedto actively use open market operations to ensure adequate liquidity
managementand to allow interest rates to increaseinorder to ensure sufficient demandfor treasury
securities. Directors also encouragedBB to implementfurther improvements inthe functioning of
the interbank and treasury bill markets, as recommended by the recent Fundtechnical assistance
mission. Reactivating the primary dealer system and deepening the secondary market for treasury
securities are important steps inthis regard.

Directors were encouragedby the progress achieved inreforming and divestingthe NCBs. Taking
RupaliBank to the point of divestment i s a significant demonstration of the authorities' commitment
to bank reform. Directors addedthat recent efforts to improve the supervision and regulation of the
banking systemwill reduce financial vulnerabilities and enhance the allocation of capital. They
stressed the importance of ensuring that banks meet all prudentialregulations, includingon net open
limits on foreign exchange transactions.

Directors welcomed the authorities' commitment to further trade reform, particularly inview of the
competitive challenges ina post-MFA environment. The reductionand rationalization of trade taxes
inFY05 have helpedto enhance competitiveness andreduce anti-export bias. The streamlining of
the supplementary duty systeminthe FY06 budget, together with a significant reduction in
quantitative restrictions and the removal of restrictions on foreign direct investment inthe ready-
made-garment sector outside the export processing zones, are steps inthe right direction. Directors
notedthat it would be desirable to further simplify the supplementary duty regime.

Directors encouragedthe authorities to work with the World Bank and the Asian Development
Bank toward implementing a restructuring plan to improve the operational and financial
performance of the energy sector SOEs. Measures to reformthe power sector distribution system,
particularly those under Dhaka electric system authority's current network, are key to this strategy.
This will require intensifiedefforts to reduce systemlossesthrough enhancedmonitoring and
improved billcollection.

Directors notedthat, inlight of rising global fuel prices and the weak financial position of energy
sector SOEs, the adjustments on domestic fuel prices inthe first half of 2005 are appropriate.
However, they underscored that the authorities need to keep domestic fuel prices under close review
and make further adjustments as needed. The impact of higher domestic fuel prices on the poor can
be reduced by well-targeted and transparent transfers to them.

Directors welcomed the recent establishment of the Anti-Corruption Commission. Concerted
follow-up actions are requiredto make the Commissionfunction effectively so as to enhance its
credibility. Inthis respect, developing an anti-corruption strategy with technical assistancefrom




                                                   77

donors would be an important step to tackle governance issues and help improve the investment
climate.

                            Bangladesh: Key Economic Indicators, FY2001-06 11

                                                                                       Proj.
                                               2000101 2001102 2002103 2003104 2004105 2005106

National income and prices (percent change)
Real GDP                                           5.3        4.4     5.3     5.5     5.2     6.0
GDP deflator                                       1.6        2.7     4.4     5.5     6.0     5.5
CPI inflation(annual average) 21                   1.6        2.8     4.4     5.8     6.5     6.0

Central government operations (percent of
GDP)
Total revenue                                      9.0       10.2     10.3    10.1   10.5    11.0
Tax                                                7.6        7.7      8.3     8.2    8.6     8.9
Nontax                                             1.4        2.4      2.0     1.9     1.9    2.0
Total expenditure                                 14.8       14.9     13.7    13.3   14.7    15.2
Current expenditure                                7.7        8.0      8.1     7.7    8.6     8.4
Qfwhich: Interest payments                         1.6         1.8     1.9     1.6     1.8     1.6
Annual DevelopmentProgram                          6.5        5.6      5.4     5.0    5.3     5.7
Other expenditures 31                              0.6         1.3     0.2     0.6    0.8      1.1
Overall balance (excluding grants)                -5.1       -4.7     -3.4    -3.2    -4.2   -4.2
Primary balance                                   -3.5        -2.9    -1.5    -1.6    -2.4   -2.6
Financing (net)                                    5.1        4.7      3.4     3.2     4.2     4.2
Domestic                                           3.1         2.6     1.3     2.1     2.0     2.0
External                                           2.0         2.1     2.1     1.1     2.2     2.2

Total central government debt (percent of         50.8       52.9     51.0    48.3   47.9    48.3
GDP)

Money and credit (end of year; percent change)
Net domestic assets                               20.2       11.9     12.2    13.4    14.8   13.5
Private sector                                    16.3       13.9     12.6    12.0    14.7   13.2
Broad money (M2)                                  16.6        13.1    15.6    13.8    14.2   12.8

Balance of payments (in billions of U.S.
dollars) 4/
Exports, f.0.b.                                    6.4         5.9     6.5     7.5     7.8     8.0
(Annual percent change)                            11.4       -7.6     9.5    15.8     4.1     2.0
Imports, f.0.b.                                    9.4         7.7     8.7     9.8    11.6    12.3
(Annual percent change)                            11.4       -8.7    13.0    13.0    18.0     6.2

Gross official reserves (inbillions of U.S.         1.3        1.6     2.5     2.7     2.7     2.7
dollars)
Inmonths of imports of goods and nonfactor          1.7        2.1     2.9     2.8     2.4     2.2
services

Memorandum item
Nominal GDP (inbillions of taka)                 2,535      2,732    3,005   3,345   3,731   4,171




                                                  78

Sources: Data providedby the Bangladesh authorities; and IMFstaff estimates and projections.
11Fiscal year begins July 1.
21CPI has recently been rebasedusingFY96 weights.
31 Consists of other capital, net lending, and food accounts (including check float and discrepancy).
41Balance of payments i s presented onthe basis of BPMS.

 Under Article IV of the I M F ' s Articles of Agreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions with members,
usually every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses
with officials the country's economic developments and policies. Onreturn to headquarters, the staff prepares
a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the conclusion of the discussion, the
Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this
summary i s transmitted to the country's authorities.

                             IMFEXTERNALRELATIONSDEPARTMENT
                             Public Affairs: 202-623-7300- Fax: 202-623-6278
                           MediaRelations: 202-623-7100- Fax: 202-623-6772




                                                         79

               Annex I

Bangladeshat a glance                      lolzwd




                 1m UJ
                    mo
                    aa 1.W 61Q



                    1.7    ld
                    2.1    2.1


                    2 i      -
                            31
                    rn
                     (5     w
                            79
                     48     44
                     W      7s
                                --
                     W
                     n      61
                            m
                    1Q     to1
                     92     I


     l#U           lw
     18.7           610        I
                    23.4
                    14J             Tndr
                    1M
                    243              T

                    0.1
                    0.3        I  -
                    303
                     8.4
                   l24.70            1
                    a



                     0.3    6.0
                     4.4    4.1
                    I25    103



     1 w    1-      a003  am4
                               IP=-- I
     32.3   26.0    21.a   2i.D
     211    24.3    2b3    28.6
      143   10.3    l5d    161
     446    a 0     520    62.4
     0894   81.6    77.1   75.8
      4 2     4.0    6.3    6.5
      13.0  13.0    20.0   ZOd

    ln4.u l(u+( 200)       m
      2 1 3 .6d8     3.1    4.1
      6.0            7.3    76
      19      ho     0.7    7.1
      5.7     s.1    L4     1.1
      3.1     3.1    4.0    4 6
      3.7     0.3   13.2   10.7
      6 1     8.0    7.9    92
      L o 8 2        7.4   1Od




                                           ..

          Bangladesh




2714
 58.8


 a04

20,019
asw0
  ou
    6
  !2c4

   319
   tbl
   -18
   38s
     6

   627
   616
   140
   407
    I
   599

                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33368
                To Gangtok
   88E                                          89E                    BHUTAN                   90E                                 91E                   BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                             DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                             DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Dispur
                                 Panchagar                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

 To                                                                                                                                                                          RIVERS
Patna                  PANCHAGAR
                                                                                                                                 BANGLADESH
                                                           LALMONIRHA                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
 26N         Thakurgaon                NILPHAMARI                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
          THAKURGAON                        Nilphamari                   Lalmonirhat
                                                                       T                                                                                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                               Kurigram
                                                       Rangpur                                                                                                               DIVISION BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                       KURIGRAM
 Katihar                            Dinajpur             RANGPUR                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                        DINAJPUR                                                       To
                                                                                                    Goalpara                        I N D I A
    To
  Katihar                                                             Gaibandha                                                                                    To      92E                 To
                                                                                                                                                                  Dispur
                                                                      GAIBANDHA                                                                                                                Dispur

                                                 JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                    SERPUR
                                                    Joypurhat                                                                               Sunamganj
 25N                                                                                                                                                                   SYLHET
                                NAOGAON                                                              Serpur                                                                                                  25N
                                                                                                                         NETROKONA               SUNAMGANJ        Sylhet
                               Naogaon                                 BOGRA              Jamalpur
                                                                        Bogra
                                 R A J S H A H I                                              JAMALPUR                       Netrokona
                                                                                                                Mymensingh                              S Y L H E T
        NOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Silchar
                                                                                                              MYMENSINGH
                   Nowabganj                                                     Jam

                            RAJSHAHI                                               muuna                    D H A K A               Kishorganj                    MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                                                                                                   Moulvi Bazar
             Ganges             Rajshahi                                  Serajganj
                                                     Natore                                                                                         HABIGANJ
                                                                        SERAJGANJ                                                 KISHORGANJ
                                                  NATORE                                            TANGAIL

                                                                                                  Tangail                                            Habiganj


                                                                  PABNA
                                                                   ABNA                                            GAZIPUR

                                                                 Pabna                                                      NARSINGDI
 24N                                                                                                             Gazipur                                                                                    24N
                                                                                                                            Narsingdi
   I N D I A                                KUSHTIA      Kushtia                           Manikanj       DHAKA                      MegBRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                       hna                                             I N D I A
                                                                                                                                            Brahmanbaria


                                  Meherpur                                                                                                BARIA
                                                                                    Rajbari   MANIKGANJ
                       MEHERPUR                                                                                       NARAYNGANJ
                                                                                                                           YNGANJ
                                           Chuadanga                     RAJBARI                         DHAKA          Naraynganj

                                  CHUADANGA                                                    Faridpur                            COMILLA
                                                             Jhenaidah
                                                                      Magura                                MUNSHIGANJ Munshiganj
                                                JHENAIDAH                                FARIDPUR
                                                                                          ARIDPUR
                                                                   MAGURA                                     Ganges                     Comilla

 To                                                                                                           SARIATPUR
Calcutta                                                                                                                    CHANDPUR
                                                                                                                 Sariatpur
                                                  Jessore                 Narail                            Madaripur      Chandpur                                               Khagrachhari
                                                                          NARAIL                    MADARIPUR
                                                       JESSORE                             GOPALGANJ                                                                     KHAGRACHHARI
 23N                                               K H U L N A                               Gopalganj                                                Feni                                                  23N
                                                                                                                              LUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                     FENI
                                                                              Khulna                        BARISAL             Luxmipur  NOAKHALI

                                                                                                                                           Noakhali                                   RANGAMATI
                                                      Satkhira      KHULNA                        PEROJPUR        Barisal   Bhola            C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                             Bagerhat             Jhalukathi
  To                                             SATKHIRA                                               JHALUKATHI                                                        Rangamati         Karnali
Calcutta                                                                          BAGERHAT          Perojpur                                                                                Reservoir
                                                                                                      B A R I S A L                                            CHITTAGONG

                                                                                                                 Patuakhali   BHOLA

                                                                             e      l      t  a                 PATUAKHALI                                 Chittagong
                                                                                                          Barguna
                         G       a    n     g      e    s               D
                                                                                                    BARGUNA                                                                               Bandarban


 22N                                                                                                                                      s                                              Mt. Mowdok         22N
                                                                                   s                                               g                                                          (957 m)
                                                                       b  a  n                                                          e

                                                         d         r                                                         a   n

                                            S   u    n        a
                                                                                                               t h e      G
                                                                                                                                                                                           BANDARBAN
                                                                                                    o   f                                                                COX'S
                                                                                                                                                                         COX'S

                                                                     M    o  u    t     h    s                                                                           BAZAR


                                                                                                                                                                 Cox's Bazar
                 0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers
                                                                                                              B a y o f B e n g a l
                 0     10       20     30     40       50 Miles                                                                                                                               MYANMAR
         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 21N    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                     21N
         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                              89E                                                90E                                  91E                                    92E                 Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEPTEMBER 2004

