Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-725 6-RU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.5 BILLION
TO
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
July 26, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



RUSSIAN FEDERATION - THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit   =    New Ruble (Rbl)
MICEX Exchange Rates
New Ruble per US$1
Period Average        End of Period
1995                 4.566                 4.640
1996                 5.129                 5.554
1997                 5.785                 5.554
1998a                6.120                 6.270
'As of 24 July 1998
Weights And Measures
Metric System
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Michael F. Carter, ECCRU
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra, ESCPE
Program Team Leader: Harry G. Broadman, ECSPE
Project Team: Harry Broadman (Task Manager); Igor Artemiev, PSDEN; Karen Brooks, ECSRE; David
Craig, ECSEG; Sandra Craig, ECSPE; Vladimir Drebentsov, ECCRU; Victor Gabor, ECSPE;
Jane E. Holt, ECCRU; loannis Kessides, ECSPE; Andrei Markov, ECCRU; Alexander
Morozov, ECCRU; John Nellis, PSDEN; Irina Partola, ECCRU; Friedrich Peloschek, LEGEC;
Lydia Petrashova, ECCRU; Brian Pinto, ECCRU; William Porter, ECSEG; Jeff Procak,
ECC1O; Elena Shtykanova, ECCRU; Graham Smith, ECSIG; Gary Stuggins, ECSEG; Mark
Sundberg, ECSPE; Peter Thomson, ECSEG; Silvina Vatnick, PSDEN; Vadim Voronin,
ECCRU; Margaret Wilson, ECSEG.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADR - American Depository Receipt
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CBR - Central Bank of Russia
CIS - Conmmonwealth of Independent States
EBF - Extrabudgetary Fund
EDI  -  Economic Development Institute
EFF - Extended Fund Facility
FEC - Federal Energy Commission
FSRNMC   -  Federal Regulatory Commission for Communications
FSRNMT  -  Federal Regulatory Commission for Transportation
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GKI - State Committee for the Management of State Property
GKO - Treasury Bill
GOR - Government of Russia
GW   -  Gigawatt
IAS - International Accounting Standards
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR - Implementation Completion Report
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IMF - International Monetary Fund
IPO - Initial Public Offering
LDC - Local Distribution Company
LIBOR - London inter-Bank Offered Rate
MICEX - Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange
MIGA - Multilateral investment Guarantee Agency
MOE - Ministry of Economy
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOP - Memorandum of the President
NIS - Newly Independent States
RAO EES - Joint Stock Company- Electrification and Electricity Supply
RFCSCM - Russian Federal Conmiission on Securities and the Capital Market
RTGS - Real-Time Gross Settlement
SAL  -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL  -  Sector Adjustment Loan
STS - State Tax Service
TA - Technical Assistance
VAT - Value Added Tax
VChK - Emergency Tax Commission
WTO - World Trade Organization
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                  Russian Federation
Amount:                    US$1.5 billion, in three tranches of US$300 million; US$500 million;
and US$700 million
Terms:                     Payable in seven years, including three years of grace at the standard
LIBOR-based interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee:            0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed SAL3 would assist the Government to undertake the
structural reforms necessary to lay the foundation for renewed economic
growth and to maintam macroeconomic stabilization over the medium-
term. It would also provide the financing necessary to provide an
adequate level of public services during the difficult fiscal transition that
has characterized most former centrally planned economies.
The proposed operation would support economy-wide structural reforms
that (a) advance competitive enterprise and market development and
impose financial discipline on the enterprise sector; and (b) have a major
direct impact on macroeconomic stability. It would focus on fiscal
management reform, private sector development, reform of infrastructure
monopolies, and banking reforms.
Benefits:                  The loan would encourage and enable the federal government to proceed
with key structural reforms to sustain macroeconomic stability and
stimulate renewed growth. The low-cost, non-inflationary budget
financing provided by SAL3 would confer financial savings as well as
economic benefits. The reforms supported would increase efficiency
across a range of sectors by helping create a more competitive and open
private sector-oriented economy.
Risks:                     There are substantial political, institutional, and economic risks associated
with this operation, as with other operations in the Bank's Russia
portfolio. These risks have been carefully addressed during project
preparation but remain high. The risk of macroeconomic instability has
been addressed through the operation's strong fiscal management
measures, the resources it will provide to the economy, and through
coordinating closely with the IMF's ongoing EFF program. The risk of



erratic commitment to reforms has been addressed by designing SAL3
based on strong prior actions and incorporating three progressive
tranches. The risk of inadequate implementation of the reforms will be
addressed through intensive supervision, including monthly monitoring
reports.
Schedule of Disbursement:    Three tranche disbursement, the first immediately after loan effectiveness
(expected August 1998); the second and third when pre-identified actions
have been undertaken (estimated December 1998 and June1999,
respectively).
Rate of Return:             Not Applicable
Poverty Category:           Not Applicable
Project ID Number:          RU-PE-55137
Map:                        IBRD No. 27188R
The World Bank project team wishes to thank the Russian authorities, and in particular their counterparts in the
Presidential and Government Administrations, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Fuels and
Energy, Ministry of State Property, Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Federal Energy
Commission, Regulatory Commission for Transport and Communications, Federal Service on Insolvency and
Financial Rehabilitation, State Tax Service, and the Central Bank, among other agencies, for their collaboration
in preparing the proposed SAL3. The project team would like to thank their colleagues in the International
Monetary Fund's Russia team for their collaboration. The project team would also like to express its gratitude to
Johannes Linn, ECSVP; Marcelo Selowsky, ECAVP; Michael Carter, ECCRU; Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE; David
Pearce, ECCAI; Robert J. Anderson, ECSPE; Sanjay Pradhan, ECSPE; and Homi Kharas, PRMEP for their
overall guidance and support. Loan preparation work has been partly funded by a grant from the PHRD Fund of
the Government of Japan.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Table of Contents
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT ..................................................................1I
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM .........................................5
A) General Objectives ...................................................................5
B) Reform   of Infrastructure Monopolies ...................................................................6
C) Private  Sector Development .................................................................. 11
D) Fiscal Management ..................................................................                                                                 20
E) Banking  Sector Reform  .................................................................. 26
PART III. PROGRESS UNDER THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN ........... 28
PART IV. THE PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN .............................. 30
A) Rationale and  Objectives ..................................................................                                                         30
B) Benefits and  Risks .................................................................. 32
C) Coordination with the IMF ..................................................................                                                         34
D) Board  Conditions and Tranche Triggers ....................................                                       .............................. 34
E) Supervision, Implementation  and Technical Assistance . .......................................................... 37
F) Financial Arrangements ..................................................................                                                            37
CJ) Poverty Implications ................................................................... 38
H) Environmental Impact ..................................................................                                                              38
PART V. RECOMMENDATION ..................................................................                                                                             38



ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1       Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Table 3: External Financing
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance
Attachment 2        Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Attachment 3        Timetable of Key Processing Events
Attachment 4        Letter of Development Policy
Attachment 5       Policy Reforms Program Matrix
BOXES
Box 1               SAL3 Second Tranche Release Conditions
Box 2              SAL3 Third Tranche Release Conditions
MAP
IBRD No.            27188R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL3)
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
1. I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed third structural
adjustment loan (SAL3) to the Russian Federation for US$1.5 billion to support the Government's
structural reform program. 1 The loan would be at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US
Dollar single currency loans, with a maturity of seven years, including three years of grace.
2. This report should be read in conjunction with the "Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World
Bank Group for the Russian Federation" (Report No. 16549-RU, dated May 6, 1997), which was
approved by the Board in June 1997. A CAS Progress Report is currently under preparation for
distribution and discussion in October 1998.
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT2
3. Since 1992, the Russian economy has been undergoing a massive transformation to a market system.
Russia has had its share of setbacks and triumphs. But its transition is proving considerably more
difficult than that of the other countries in Central and Eastern Europe. This is due in part to Russia's vast
size, the lack of transparency in the control and use of the country's abundant natural resources, the
challenge of harmonizing the reform agendas of the federal and regional governments and creating
political consensus for difficult reform, and the much longer history of central planning. Further, Russia's
military-industry complex, where many of the enterprise adjustment problems are concentrated, had a
much higher share in output than in other transition countries.
4. Mirroring the difficult transition, measured GDP declined continuously between 1991 and 1996. In
1997, the economy grew for the first time since transition began, by 0.8 percent, with GDP recovering
slightly to 64 percent of its 1991 level-a cumulative decline of 36 percent nevertheless. Inflation has
come down dramatically, falling to 11 percent on an end-year basis by December 1997, and is now
heading towards the 7 percent annual range. This has been achieved through tight monetary policy aimed
at stabilizing the ruble, combined with debt issuance to break the link between fiscal deficits and money
creation prevalent up to 1995. However, domestic debt has grown rapidly owing to unsustainable fiscal
deficits stemming from weak enforcement of tax collection and insufficient expenditure commitment
control, keeping real interest rates at levels that have stifled investment and growth. At the same time,
The first structural adjustment loan (SAL 1), Loan No. 4180-RU ($600 million), was approved by the Board on
June 5,1997. SAL I became effective on June 17, 1997 and was fully disbursed on June 18, 1997. SAL2,
Loan No. 4261 -RU, ($800 million) was approved by the Board on December 18, 1997. Its first tranche ($400
million) was made available in late December 1997, and its second tranche ($400 million) in late January
1998.
2   Due to differences in the definitions and methodology underlying the macroeconomic statistics of the Russian
Federation and the World Bank, the specific macroeconomic data, estimates, and projections in this Report of
the President and the CAS may differ from those in the Government's Letter of Development Policy which is
attached.



2
structural reforms related to creating a favorable climate for private sector development and new private
investment have lagged behind. Consequently, the resumption of strong growth has proved elusive. As a
sign of the weak investment climate, cumulative foreign direct investment was only about $11 billion
over 1994-1997, which is very low compared to levels elsewhere in Central and Eastern Europe,
especially when scaled by GDP. Recorded unemployment reached 11.5 percent of the total work force by
the end of May 1998, and about 20-30 percent of the total population are living in poverty.
5. Recent Developments. Two important, unanticipated events have occurred since late 1997: (i) Russia
was hit by contagion from the East Asian financial crisis starting in November 1997; and (ii) there was a
change of government in March 1998. Contagion from Asia has led to a significant deterioration in the
fiscal situation, dampened growth prospects, and highlighted Russia's vulnerability to changing sentiment
in the international capital markets. On the political front, President Yeltsin dismissed the government
headed by Prime Minister Chernomyrdin on March 23, 1998 and appointed Mr. Kiriyenko as acting
Prime Minister. The new government formally took office on April 24, 1998 following confirmation of
Prime Minister Kiriyenko's appointment by the Duma. These developments coincided with weakening
oil, gas and metals prices, putting pressure on export earnings and tax revenues.
6. The last eight months have been dominated by financial volatility and increasing macroeconomic
instability. Russia has suffered three episodes of exchange market instability as investors sought to exit
the government securities market (GKOs and OFZs), depleting its foreign exchange reserves in the
process. The first episode occurred in November 1997, when the East Asian crisis initially spilled over.
The second occurred in late January 1998, when investor concerns switched to Russian risk, centering
around the fiscal deficit and structural impediments to private sector development. The third, and most
serious, began in mid-May, and has shown signs of abating only with the announcement on July 13, 1998
of the IMF, Bank and Japanese enhanced assistance package.
7. Gross reserves (including gold) have fallen from $23 billion on November 1, 1997 to $13.5 billion in
mid-July 1998. In June, 1998, the Government raised $3.75 billion from two Eurobond issues, using the
proceeds to pay off maturing GKOs and OFZs. It also received a $670 million tranche from the IMF
under the 1998 EFF. Approximately $5.5 billion of reserves were lost between June 1 and July 14 as
portfolio investors exited, with an acceleration towards the end. The high interest rates necessary to
defend the ruble have postponed growth, as well as adjustment by commercial banks, and have
exacerbated an already heavy public debt burden. In the 1998 federal government budget, interest
payments are projected at 45-50 percent of revenues. This burden will continue into next year, as interest
payments are counted when GKOs, which are discount instruments with a current average maturity of 10
months, mature; but is expected to diminish slightly as new tax measures take effect.Nonpayments and
barter have increased significantly. By May 1, 1998, overdue accounts payable to suppliers, to budgets at
all levels, social extra-budgetary funds and wage arrears amounted to a little over 1 trillion rubles, about
35 percent of GDP. Barter is estimated to account for about 40-50 percent of enterprise sales.
8. Near-Term Economic Outlook. Macroeconomic instability has adversely impacted Russia's short-
to-medium run economic outlook. Growth, originally projected at 1-2 percent for 1998 is now expected
to be -1 percent. Next year, output is not expected to grow much beyond the 0- 1 percent range. Inflation
gains have been preserved; but real interest rates remain high. This has added to the fiscal burden, and
heightened the need for controlling the size of the budget deficit by raising tax collection and
implementing fiscal structural reforms to lower permanently non-interest spending. The fiscal deficit
target at the federal government level is 5.6 percent of GDP for this year and 2.8 percent for 1999.
Declining oil, gas and metals prices have led to a deterioration in the trade balance. Overall, the current



3
account is expected to slip into a deficit of about $5 billion this year, or 1 percent of GDP, compared to a
surplus of 0.7 percent last year.
9. The Government's Anti-Crisis Program. Recognizing that a comprehensive approach was needed to
combat the emerging financial crisis, the new Government formulated an anti-crisis Economic
Stabilization and Finance Program3 in late June 1998. The Government attributes the crisis to actions
begun in 1995, when money financing of the deficit ceased: (i) rising fiscal deficits and mounting interest
payments; (ii) an unsustainable public debt structure, with predominance of GKOs in new borrowings;
(iii) contagion effects from the East Asian crisis, and (iv) the decline in oil and gas prices. In order to
overcome the "credibility crisis" and restore investor confidence, the Government has singled out a set of
actions that in the main would: (i) aim for a significant primary surplus on the fiscal accounts for 1999,
thereby minimizing borrowing and lowering interest rates; and (ii) create structural conditions for growth,
and end non-payments and barter transactions, thus engendering income generation and thereby
expansion of the tax base.
10. The IMF, Bank and Japanese assistance package announced on July 13, 1998 is targeted to support
the Government's stabilization program, and is centered around an enhanced set of reforms designed to
eliminate the root causes of Russia's current financial instability, namely, unsustainable fiscal deficits and
structural impediments to private sector development and growth. At the same time, the Government
announced a debt exchange operation (see para. 15). On July 20, 1998 the IMF Board approved its $11.2
billion enhanced program--comprised of an augmentation of the EFF and a purchase under the CCFF--
and a first tranche of $4.8 billion was made available. The July 13 announcement led to a substantial
decline in GKO yields: the one-year GKO yield fell to 58 percent on July 14 from a close of 102 percent
the previous day. The Government recognizes that decisive follow-through in implementing fundamental
fiscal and structural reforms over the next few months-reflected in a further decline in interest rates-is
essential to reap the benefits from the additional funds being made available and the financial
restructuring of Russia's public debt.
Resumption of Growth: The Need for Further Macroeconomic and Structural Reforms
11. Sustained macro-stabilization and the realization of dynamic private-sector led growth-the key to
raising general living standards and easing social tensions in Russia-will thus depend on further fiscal
consolidation and the acceleration and deepening of fundamental structural reforms.
12. Macroeconomic Reforms. A crucial component of the enhanced policy package being supported by
SAL3 is a sizable and accelerated fiscal adjustment needed for putting public finances and public debt on
a sustainable path. The goal is to move from approximate primary balance at the federal level in 1998 to
a primary surplus of 3 percent of GDP in 1999. Achieving this will require building further upon the
expenditure reduction plan for 1998 supplemented with a substantial increase. in revenues in 1999.
13. The increase in revenues will come from a combination of improvements in both tax administration
and changes in tax policy. During its extraordinary session July 15-16, parliament passed Part I of the
Tax Code, which outlines and clarifies the powers and responsibilities of the tax authorities. The code
included amendments removing provisions for offsets and increasing the cap on interest payable from 50
to 100 percent of tax arrears. However, legislation aimed at expanding the personal income tax base and
3 The core measures incorporated in the program are outlined in two documents, "Stabilization of the Economy and
Finance Program" and "Stabilization Measures Plan" issued on June 19, 1998.



4
shifting 20 percent of personal income tax receipts to the federal level was not passed, although a 5
percent sales tax accruing solely to the member territories was passed. Presidential decrees were passed
to move the VAT to an accruals basis, unify it at 20 percent for all items (except bread, milk and baby
food, for which VAT will be 10 percent), and to increase land tax rates (which was originally to be
passed into law by parliament). A government resolution establishing a 3 percent import duty surcharge
(until end- 1999) was also passed. As of July 20, measures accounting for Rub 56 billion out of the Rub
80 billion needed for meeting the 1999 fiscal deficit target had been adopted.
14. On the expenditure side, the first key step is to implement the expenditure reduction plan for 1998; a
further 1 percent of GDP compression in non-interest spending will be required for 1999. Expenditure
control is being gradually strengthened through continued development of the federal treasury. All
spending by federal budget agencies except for the Ministry of Defense, where only partial progress has
been made, and by earmarked budget funds, is now executed through the treasury. The activities of the
earmarked budget funds and the Employment Fund will be brought into the treasury beginning in 1999.
The foreign exchange accounts of the tax authorities and the off-budget accounts of spending units will
be closed and incorporated into the treasury over the course of this year. Measures envisaged for
restoring balance to the Pension Fund from August 1, 1998, onwards were not adopted. Legislation to
address this will be submitted to the special parliamentary session in August, while as an interim measure,
the government will introduce as of August 1, 1998, a 2 percent surcharge on the payroll tax
contributions of employees and will expand the base for employer contribution pending a return to
balance of the Pension Fund. In order to improve fiscal management and reduce arrears at the regional
level, the Ministry of Finance will introduce various conditions on resources received by member
territories from the federal budget.
15. Public debt dynamics are at the root of the present macroeconomic instability. With growth expected
to be stagnant this year and slightly positive next year, and real interest rates still high, the burden will fall
squarely on budgetary restraint and fiscal consolidation to keep public debt growth within manageable
levels. At a minimum, meeting this and next year's fiscal deficit targets is essential. Russia's international
liquidity situation has seriously deteriorated over the last several months as a result of losing reserves and
the rapid growth of GKOs/OFZs. Liquidity sharply deteriorated towards the end of 1997 and worsened
between mid-May and mid-July. The attempt to enhance international liquidity has three components: (i)
an increase in reserves; (ii) the Government's exchange of Rub 27.5 billion of GKOs ($4.4 billion) with
maturity dates extending up to January 27, 1999, for seven and twenty year US dollar instruments; and
(iii) increased borrowing through long-dated Eurobonds once market expectations stabilize. While such
financial restructuring will alleviate short-run liquidity, thereby lowering the pressure on the exchange
rate and contributing to a decline in interest rates, it will not be sufficient and will serve only as a
temporary palliative unless accompanied by the implementation of the fundamental fiscal reforms
proposed as part of SAL3.
16. Structural Reforms. The resumption of growth in Russia will also depend on further progress in
developing and strengthening the institutions and legal/regulatory processes that are the fundamental
building blocks for the operation of a market system, including reforms in the social sphere, agriculture
and housing. Growth will be propelled by structural reforms that: (i) enhance fiscal management; (ii)
improve the efficiency and transparency of the country's monopolistic infrastructure sectors; (iii) develop
the private sector, encourage competition and improve corporate governance incentives; and (iv) reform
the banking sector. Greater fiscal discipline--through, among other measures, strengthened budget
management processes and inter-governmental reforms that both correct mismatches between
expenditure responsibilities and revenue assignments, as well as encourage fiscal responsibility and the
implementation of key fiscal reforms by sub-national governments--will help the process of



5
consolidation. Reform of infrastructure monopolies--especially electric power, natural gas, railways and
oil transport--will have large positive spillovers throughout the economy and thus make a crucial
contribution to renewed productivity.  The realization of dynamic private sector growth-through
efficiency gains from privatization, competition, restructuring and new investment-will depend mainly on
improvements in the overall business environment. Steps in that direction include a more transparent and
predictable incentive regime, including stronger contract and property rights enforcement; easier market
entry for new businesses and removing barriers to exit for non-viable enterprises. Banking sector
reforms-including dealing with illiquid and insolvent banks (including a law on bank bankruptcy and
liquidation and a prudent deposit protection system), improving bank accounting and supervision, and
fostering competition-will be essential to facilitate the financial deepening that is needed both for the
consolidation of stabilization on the monetary and credit side and for effective financial intermediation as
a basis for investment and growth.
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
A. General Objectives
17. The Government's medium-term program notes that the first phase of structural reforms following
the collapse of central planning is substantially completed, and that Russia has become predominantly a
market economy. It notes that major progress has been made in liberalization of prices; a mass
privatization process has been completed; inflation has been reduced and the ruble stabilized; and trade
policy reforms have resulted in lowered tariffs. Building on these achievements, the Government is
continuing to undertake structural measures to restore growth, which it sees as a prerequisite for reducing
poverty and addressing other social problems.
18. The Government's program argues that structural reform must be underpinned by: a stable
macroeconomic environment; increased investment; reallocation of assets and resources currently tied up
in non-productive enterprises; openness to international trade and investment; new institutions required to
make the market economy operate efficiently; social sector reforms (such as pension, unemployment
insurance, health care and housing); and reform of the agricultural sector. Fundamental restructuring of
the economy's key sectors is envisaged to take 10-15 years.
19. Although the medium-term program describes a multiplicity of structural measures, the immediate
priority-which would be supported under the proposed SAL3, building on the initiatives supported
under SALl and SAL2-is a set of cross-cutting reforms that will contribute directly to the resumption of
growth and the maintenance of macroeconomic stability. These will require action in the following areas:
* Reform of Infrastructure Monopolies
* Private Sector Development
* Fiscal Management
* Banking Reform
Key elements of the program in these areas are discussed below.4
4   Other key elements of the medium-term reform program, such as social protection and coal sector reform, are
being addressed under other Bank operations.



6
B. Reform of Infrastructure Monopolies
20. Context Efforts to improve the efficiency, transparency and competitiveness of the electricity, gas,
oil and railways sectors will have very substantial efficiency gains with large, positive, economy-wide
spillovers and will be critically important for medium-term growth. The Government has initiated reforms
in all sectors, both at the enterprise level and at the policy level in terms of pricing and legislative reform.
While the reform programs are moving at different paces and with different focuses in each sector,
certain themes are common to all: (i) strengthening payment discipline, including taxes, and reducing
arrears; (ii) enhancing the environment for private sector investment; (iii) reducing and, where possible,
eliminating barriers to competitive supply and protecting against the abuse of monopoly positions; (iv)
ensuring that pricing better reflects cost and demand conditions; and (v) enhancing arms-length
regulatory oversight where competition is insufficient to protect public interests.
21. Reducing Payment Arrears. Payment arrears and the prevalence of barter or other non-cash
settlements is a major problem for all of the infrastructure monopolies, and is particularly severe in the
energy sector. Barter and non-cash settlements, in addition to creating a serious transparency problem,
entail burdensome transaction costs which have adversely affected efficiency throughout the sector.
Nonpayment problems are aggravated by the fact that energy suppliers are unable to cut off supply to so-
called "strategic customers", even when these customers are in arrears. This problem has been
compounded by a reluctance on the part of energy providers to cut off supplies to other customers that are
in arrears and by the tendency for payments to be captured and retained at the downstream end of the
supply chain. The chain of payment arrears has multiplied through the economy, contributing, in
particular, to serious wage arrears and increased tax arrears to the budget. These arrears have also, in
many cases, threatened the financial viability of companies in the energy supply chain. In January 1997,
the Government substantially reduced the list of "strategic customers" - those that remain are almost all
entities responsible for Russia's external and internal security. Earlier legal provisions that prohibited
suppliers from cutting off services to classes of customers have also been revoked.
22. The Government's attempts to force payment discipline through use of the regulatory system and
corporate governance mechanisms have had little success to date. The Government will now pursue a
number of coordinated measures designed to address the most persistent payment abuses.  The
calculation of VAT on an accrual basis will create a significant additional incentive to improve
collections. The requirement that all payments for power, heat and gas be channeled through an escrow
account will provide a mechanism to eliminate much of the barter trade (payments to the escrow account
will have to be made in cash) and to ensure collection of the VAT amounts. The distribution of the funds
from the escrow account will also ensure that all elements of the supply chain are treated fairly in terms
of payment receipts: by sharing final sale proceeds among all parties of the supply chain, it will reduce
incentives for distributors to accept only partial cash payment while running arrears with suppliers. In
addition, procedures for termination or limitation of supplies will be simplified.
23. Electric Power Sector: Russia's electric power sector has an installed generating capacity of about
210 GW, nearly 60% more than peak demand. However, the asset base is aging as little new construction
has been commissioned over the past ten years, and considerable investment is needed in deferred
maintenance, life extension and replacement. Despite over-capacity, supply problems persist in some
regions - in part due to the buildup of payment arrears. The power sector is dominated by RAO UES
Rossii (UES), a holding company which owns much of the generation system, as well as the high-voltage
transmission and dispatch systems. UES also has a controlling equity stake (typically 51%) in most of
the Energos, which are responsible for the distribution of electricity on a regional basis. The 72 Energos



7
own the smaller generation stations and the distribution networks within their regions. A small share of
UES was privatized at the time the company was formed, and the Government has gradually divested its
ownership to the present level of 52 percent. Regulation has recently been established at both the federal
and regional levels. The institutional capacity and independence of the Federal Energy Commission
(FEC) has improved considerably over the past year; however, regulation at the regional level remains
weak. In the aggregate, electricity prices have been set at a level to fully finance operating costs and
100% of new investments; however, they still contain a substantial, albeit declining, cross subsidy from
industry to households.
24. The Government has assigned a high priority to addressing the problems of the power sector. The
goal of the program is to increase the efficiency of the sector's operation by establishing a pattern of
prices reflecting economic costs and relative scarcities (demand and supply over time), improving
regulatory oversight, bringing financial accounts in line with international standards, improving the
quality of service, and enhancing corporate governance, ownership incentives, and operational
restructuring. The reforms also include the establishment of a competitive market for electricity,
complemented by enhancing the effectiveness of the regulatory regime for the segments of the power
market where the competitive provision of service is sub-optimal. The Bank is providing substantial
technical assistance to the Government to help define and implement a comprehensive reform agenda
along these lines.
25. Considerable progress has already been made in the past year in implementing these initiatives. 1997
was largely a year of consolidation at the center, with the federal government strengthening its
governance over the electricity sector, and bringing new management into UES. The new management
team has focused its initial efforts on restoring the financial viability of the company. To this end, new
financial controls and audit procedures were introduced; the investment program was reviewed and
rationalized, and funding withdrawn for approximately 40 projects which were deemed to be non-viable;
as a result of a concerted effort to improve collections, cash payments to the UES transmission division
increased by 250% and overall cash payments increased from 5 to 20 percent of total revenues; and UES
took initial steps to attract new sources of capital, including reformulating new investment projects to
include private investors, and making preparations for issuing convertible bonds on international financial
markets.
26. Initial steps were also taken to introduce competition. The government created an Independent
Financial Operator (IFO) to establish a competitive wholesale electricity market among large industrial
customers and generators. Model contracts were established for transactions between these entities, using
the network as a common carrier. Principles for access to the transmission and distribution networks and
for regulation of tariffs for wheeling were also established. The wholesale market is being piloted in one
region, and currently has 3 generators and 8 customers participating. A fundamental prerequisite for
participation in the market is an agreement to pay cash, in advance, and to eliminate the stock of arrears.
Entities that agree to this receive a discount of approximately 35% on their electricity tariffs.
27. The Government has committed over the coming year to continue the reform and restructuring
process, with particular emphasis on further development of competitive markets at the bulk supply level,
on improvements in the pricing of regulated services, and on the extension of the reform process to the
regional level. The highlights of the program to further develop competitive supply include: (i)
codification of operating rules to complete the establishment of a National Energy Market encompassing
power plants, Energos and major customers operating in the wholesale market; (ii) development of
regulatory guidelines and access rules for non-discriminatory access to the transmission and distribution
systems; (iii) introduction of revised dispatch rules to ensure, within the limits of technical constraints,



8
that generating plants are dispatched on a least-cost basis; and (iv) final development and implementation
of a plan to restructure the generating assets of UES into a number of independent generating
subsidiaries, sufficient to enable effective competition.
28. Pricing initiatives will focus on strengthening the principles and processes for effective price
regulation of monopoly services at both the federal and regional levels. These will include: (i) requiring
the development of separate accounts for the generation and transmission/dispatch operations of UES;
(ii) requiring a similar accounting separation for the generation, transmission and distribution operations
of the Energos; and, (iii) development of revised pricing methodologies and guidelines for each of the
network services.
29. At the regional level, the Government proposes to improve the operating and commercial efficiency
of the Energos by inviting greater private-sector involvement in the operations and ownership of these
enterprises. UES would solicit bids from potential strategic partners to participate in the ownership
and/or management of at least 10 Energos, such partners to have a significant financial stake in the
profitability and efficient operations of the companies.
30. Gas Sector The natural gas sector is one of the key sectors in the economy: a significant source of
export earnings, a prime factor in the current and future competitiveness of the Russian economy, and a
major source of tax revenue. The industry is dominated by RAO Gazprom, a vertically integrated
enterprise which controls 95% of production and all major transmission corridors, and also has an
effective monopoly on domestic gas trading and on export trade. The state owns a 40 percent share in
Gazprom; most of the balance is held by employees and Russian investors. Local supply is handled by
roughly 300 local distribution companies (LDCs), which are generally majority owned by their
employees. However, the financial position of the LDCs is weak, and RAO Gazprom has acquired
significant ownership stakes in some of these companies - an undesirable trend towards re-integration of
the industry.
31. The integrated structure of the industry, weak regulatory principles and procedures, lack of
transparency in reporting of operating and financial data, and ineffective implementation of legislation on
open access to pipeline networks, combine to act as a major impediment both to ensuring efficiency of
the current supply system and as a barrier to the development of parallel competitive markets. Pricing
distortions, particularly with respect to cross subsidies between customer classes and between geographic
regions, also send poor market signals both to users and to potential investors. Nonpayments have
aggravated the pricing distortions, and have also enhanced the market power of Gazprom, which has been
better able to tolerate the situation thanks to its relatively low cash requirements and its access to export
markets, and which has therefore gained a significant hold over customers and downstream enterprises.
As a consequence, while there are a number of potentially competitive sources of gas supply outside the
Gazprom system, including associated gas from oil producing operations, imports from Central Asia, and
small fields located close to major markets, RAO Gazprom continues to dominate the market. Not only is
low-priced gas being shut out of markets, but also large volumes of associated gas are being flared, with
serious adverse environmental consequences.
32. The Government's medium-term reform program for the gas sector is to introduce competition where
possible by ensuring third-party access to the transmission system and direct contractual arrangements
between independent gas producers and gas consumers, and by holding tenders for the right to develop
new gas fields. To date, the Government has taken initial steps to reform the gas pricing system,
including clarifying regulatory principles, improving the regulatory process, and reducing cross-subsidies
among regions and customer groups.. It has adopted a Resolution mandating the rights of third parties to



9
access the transmission system, and is codifying the principle of separate, non-discriminatory tariffs for
gas transport at both the transmission and distribution level. The Bank is providing technical assistance
for gas price reforms, regulation, and the formalization of inter-relationships among enterprises in the gas
supply chain.
33. Over the next year, the Government has committed to a significant broadening and deepening of the
gas reform agenda. In order to improve regulatory transparency and reduce impediments to independent
gas producers' access to the pipeline network, the Government will require RAO Gazprom to reorganize
its internal structure, providing greater institutional and managerial separation between its major
operating divisions. Transmission operations will be separated from the production and marketing
functions, and will be consolidated on a corridor basis. Each functional division will have its own
management team, with separate cost and profit accountability and separate, audited accounts based on
international accounting standards.
34. Gas excise taxes will be restructured to exempt non-monopoly producers from at least a part of the
burden, thereby enhancing the competitiveness of independent gas producers. The Federal Energy
Commission will finalize and implement transparent, economically-justified tariffs at each level of the
supply chain. Cross subsidies to households at the wholesale price level will be eliminated by the end of
1998, while cross-subsidies across regions will be progressively reduced and eliminated by mid-1999.
The Government will also strongly encourage reduced cross-subsidies to households at the gas
distribution level, by encouraging the development of responsible regional regulatory authorities, and by
ensuring that the level of cross-subsidy is transparent and also communicated to all customers.
35. The Government also proposes a number of direct initiatives to support the development of a parallel
competitive market. These include: (i) the development of model contracts for transactions between the
transmission company and gas marketing enterprises; (ii) the equalization of transmission tariffs for all
customers; (iii) lifting of state regulation on the gas prices charged by independent producers; (iv)
modification of the Rules of Gas Supply; and (v) strengthening and broadening of the legislation relating
to third party access to the transmission network, including the extension of these rights to foreign gas
producers wishing to supply the Russian market.
36. Oil Sector Russia's oil sector remains one of the largest in the world. In 1997, Russia produced
approximately 306 million tons of oil, up 1.5% from the previous year and reversing a long period of
steady decline. Last year, exports were 105 million tons. However, output in 1998 may well be lower
than last year because low international oil prices and high government take have resulted in many wells
being shut-in and capital investment and drilling programs curtailed. Currently, taxes on oil production
are now largely based on excise (revenue) taxes rather than on profits. Consequently, although world oil
prices have decreased significantly in recent months, the companies are obligated to pay the excise taxes
even though they many may operate at a loss. The Government has responded to help producers by
reducing the hard currency portion of the pipeline tariff for export volumes by $2.50 per ton, and
eliminating the excise tax (approximately $1.60 per ton) on Transneft, the major crude oil pipeline
system. Recently, the Government requested the Bank, on an urgent basis, to provide an independent
assessment of their current tax system.
37. In order to stimulate increased oil production, an attractive climate for both don.estic and foreign
investments is essential. The three critical components of an attractive investment climate in the sector in
Russia are (i) an competitive and acceptable fiscal regime; (ii) a clear and consistent legal and regulatory
regime; and (iii) assured non discriminatory access to oil transportation facilities.



10
38. Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs) have proved attractive to both foreign and domestic
producers in many countries as a mechanism to ensure that fiscal and legal concerns are addressed. The
original law on Production Sharing Agreements was passed in 1995. In order to become fully effective,
however, additional supporting and enabling legislation must be enacted. In addition, provisions
currently in the Tax Code (which will legally supersede the fiscal provisions in the PSA law) may obviate
a number of key tax conditions contained in the negotiated PSAs. In the face of this uncertainty,
investment in the oil sector has been very sluggish and potential future investments that are estimated in
the range of $50 to $70 billion are at risk. Passage of the PSA enabling legislation and modifications to
the Tax Code will resolve many of the fiscal and legal concerns and allow new reserves to be developed.
39. Much of the access to markets, however, is controlled by Transneft which operates as a natural crude
oil pipeline monopoly. The FEC is addressing the need to regulate Transneft's operations but is
hampered by limited data concerning Transneft's operations and the lack of solid legislative backing in
the form of a pipeline law. Transneft, the world's largest crude oil pipeline system, and Rosneft are the
two largest remaining state-controlled companies in the petroleum sector in Russia. It is critical for the
future of the oil sector that Transneft continue to provide access and offer tariffs to shippers on a non-
discriminatory basis to provide confidence to investors.
40. The Government is fully cognizant of the need to create an acceptable investment climate for the oil
sector if the decline in production levels is to be reversed. The program, therefore, includes as key
components enactment of the enabling PSA legislation and modifying the Tax Code to conform it to the
principles inherent in the Law on Production Sharing Agreements. The program also includes the
conduct of a full operational audit of Transneft, development and passage of an oil pipeline law and the
development and implementation of regulations governing crude oil transportation tariffs on Transneft's
pipeline system.
41. Railways Sector: Russia's railway system is the country's largest natural monopoly and its
restructuring critical to the economy as rail carries over 80% of all freight traffic and 40% of passenger
turnover. Unfortunately, falling traffic, high costs, cross-subsidization of passenger losses by freight
customers and structural difficulties have resulted in excessively high rail tariffs that are undermining the
recovery of the country's industrial sector and the competitiveness of its exports. Intra-rail competition
does not exist and intermodal competition is limited to perishables and high value goods in areas where
the highway system is fairly well-developed. The railway's present structure, seventeen geographically
separate, but contiguous railways, is centrally integrated and controlled by the Ministry of Railways
(MPS). Individual railways are monopolistic operators of traffic within their territories but transit traffic
is integrated and controlled by MPS. Individual railways are quasi-separate financial entities, controlling
locally generated revenues and expenses and financing most of their capital needs, but MPS reallocates
transit revenues among the railways to even out their financial condition and plans and finances
development of the overall network. The operating rules and overall financial system provide little
incentive to reduce costs or to introduce more commercially oriented services. Wage growth is higher
than in the country as a whole and labor productivity far below earlier levels; cuts in staffing and other
costs have not kept pace with the declining and changing nature of Russia's more market-oriented freight
and passenger demand.
42. Recognizing the need for reform, Government has taken actions to develop a structural reform
program in the railway sector. A three year restructuring plan was set forth in an April 28, 1997
Presidential Decree (Number 426) that set forth the broad directions of reform, and a number of measures
were implemented in 1997 including: (a) introduction of new procedures and authorities for regulating
tariffs previously set by MPS with a view toward lowering overall levels, eliminating preferential



11
treatment of individual commodities or freight forwarders, increasing transparency, and more effectively
taking into account patterns and volume of traffic, increases in labor productivity, restructuring and cost-
cutting measures; (b) initial steps to separate passenger from freight services and to phase out
compensation of passenger losses by freight traffic; (c) initial steps to separate and divest social and other
ancillary services; (d) formation of a working group to plan conditions and timing for separating
infrastructure from operations and introducing a framework within which competing freight and
passenger companies could operate with equal access. Efforts of this working group culminated in a
Government Resolution (Number 448) adopted on May 15, 1998 setting forth a concept document for
restructuring the railways and authorizing a working group to carry out the concept in three stages.
43. With respect to unbundling and restructuring, a number of specific measures will be taken over the
next year to build on efforts begun during 1997, including: (a) by December 1, 1998 the Government will
develop and begin to implement the privatization of enterprises engaged in rolling stock rehabilitation and
manufacturing of spare parts identified as candidates for privatization in Resolution Number 338 of
March 21, 1998; (b) requiring MPS to submit, by July 30, 1998, a timetable for divesting the social and
ancillary assets identified in a list submitted to Government on April 30, 1998 and a report on the book
value and divestiture plans with respect to social and ancillary assets not included on the April 30, 1998
list; (c) by December 31, 1998, requiring MPS to provide Government with an action plan to divest assets
on the April 30, 1998 list.
44. With respect to separating passenger from freight operations and reducing the cross subsidization of
passenger losses by freight operations, Government intends to: (a) prepare by October 1, 1998 a
feasibility study to establish long and short-haul passenger companies and establish the first two of these
by December 1, 1998; (b) issue a Resolution to enable regional railways to set tariffs for commuter rail
services that will also stipulate that any concerned municipalities desiring to lower tariffs be required to
pay at least 50% of resulting operating losses; and (c) require MPS to introduce, by September 1, 1998,
separate cost accounting and separate income statements and balance sheets for long distance passenger
traffic, commuter rail and freight traffic.
45. With respect to tariffs, a number of steps have been taken to limit the overall growth and further
regulate tariffs. These include: (a) issuance of Resolution No. 12/1, dated April 14, 1998, by the Federal
Service Regulating Monopolies in Transport, to limit freight tariffs to increases in the industrial producer
price index less 0.75 percentage points on an average quarterly basis and less 3 percentage points on an
annualized basis; (b) establishment of a Government commission to improve tariff policy pursuant to
Resolution No. 507, dated May 26, 1998; (c) lowering the base tariff structure for key bulk commodities
including coal, ore crude oil and black oil pursuant to Resolution No. 19/1 dated June 9, 1998 of the
Federal Service Regulating Monopolies in Transport; (d) eliminating, by December 31, 1998, any
discrimination between tariffs for domestic and export traffic; and, (e) by June 30, 1999, setting rail
tariffs are set on a uniform basis for all commodities.
C. Private Sector Development
46. Context Dynamic private sector development will be the key to the resumption of sustained growth
in Russia. With price and trade liberalization substantially completed, this will mainly depend on reforms
in areas that, taken together, create a fertile business environment, including: (i) enhancing and
accelerating the program for transparent and competitive privatization; (ii) establishing institutions and
policies that promote rules-based competition and facilitate market-based entry and exit, effective
corporate governance incentives, and labor mobility; (iii) creating functioning markets for urban land and
real estate, which are critical for new startups and the reallocation of assets to higher values in use; (iv)



12
implementation of financial accounting and auditing practices in line with international standards; and (v)
liberalizing the policy regimes for international trade and foreign direct investment.
47. In 1993-94, under the voucher mass privatization program, the Government transferred, either
completely or partially, over two-thirds of all large- and medium-sized enterprises and over 80 percent of
all small enterprises to private ownership, including minority stakes in most of Russia's largest
enterprises. The voucher program gave substantial benefits to "insiders". In the second stage of
privatization (1995-96), the Government sold share packages in several thousand more enterprises for
cash. It also transferred controlling shares in a few of the largest and most attractive enterprises in trust
to Russian banks in exchange for loans--the so-called loans-for-shares scheme.  The lack of
transparency in the way these latter privatizations were carried out raised serious concerns about equity,
concentration of market power, and corporate governance. Moreover, because the processes utilized
were insufficiently competitive, government revenues from the transactions were substantially reduced.
In late 1996, the Government announced it would initiate a third stage of privatization, based on acase-
by-case approach, to be implemented under the support of SAL1 and SAL2. It is targeted at large
enterprises and can involve a combination of transaction methods, including use of strategic investors,
competitive tenders and auctions, and initial public offerings (IPOs). More generally, in 1997 the
Government committed itself to carry out future privatizations using transparent and competitive
procedures.
48. The pressure for firms to compete against one another remains low in Russia. With blunted external
incentives to become efficient, due to inter-regional barriers to competition, weak exercise of creditors'
rights and impediments to new competitors (including foreign invested firms), Russian enterprises are still in
the early stages of restructuring. There remains huge scope for output and profit gains from the reallocation
of existing capital to higher value uses. Still, a nascent legal framework for bankruptcy and liquidation acts
as a critical constraint on competition and the restructuring of enterprises. At the same time, weakinternal
incentives for commercially-oriented corporate governance in large enterprises--both those that are privately
owned and those that continue to be state owned/controlled--also stifle restructuring. Application of
international accounting and auditing standards is critical to instill transparency and accountability, thus
providing for effective internal "checks and balances." Improving both extemal and internal incentives for
enterprises is a key aspect of the Government's reform program for private sector development.
49. Transparent and Competitive Privatization. The Government's priority objective in the enterprise
sector is to revitalize privatization with a credible program that is based on the principles of transparency,
openness and competition. Despite the extent of Russia's earlier privatization initiatives in transferring
assets to private ownership, the state remains the largest property owner, and the federal government
continues to retain majority ownership or control in many large enterprises. This underlines the
importance-both in strategic and fiscal revenue terms-of implementing future privatizations in a sound
manner.
50. Privatizing these remaining assets-and doing so using competitive and transparent procedures-is
necessary so as:
to increase efficiency in use of the assets by improving enterprise management and corporate
governance, enhancing restructuring incentives, and locking in "hard" budget constraints. Under
competitive privatization procedures, the winning bidders are more likely to be those who can
best manage the assets-and thus produce the highest value added for the economy.



13
*  to send a signal to both domestic and foreign investors that Russia's business environment is
open, competitive, and investor-friendly, and that private sector development is market-driven.
Transparent privatization militates against insider deals and sends the signal that regulatory and
other similar decisions in Russia are made predominantly on commercial, economic grounds.
*  to promote domestic support for overall market reforms and to demonstrate to the Russian
population that privatization can be open and fair. The Russian public is extremely disenchanted
with many of the recent transactions that have transferred assets to a select group of insiders at
give-away prices.
*  to raise substantial budget revenues. Cross-country experience shows that competitive and
transparent privatizations could generate billions of dollars in needed fiscal revenue over the next
several years.
51. The process by which privatizations are carried out has important ramifications for the efficiency of
resource allocation, further investment from domestic and foreign sources, public support for reform, and
budget revenues. Thus future privatization procedures-especially for the largest companies-should
adhere to the following principles:
*   The design of each transaction should be tailored to the enterprise's and purchaser's specific
situation--this is the hallmark of the "case-by-case" approach. The transactions should be done in
the context of an overall privatization process that is well planned and executed in conformity
with international investment practices and capital market standards.
*  Transactions should be transparent and competitive to ensure equal access by all potential
investors, including foreign participants. Reputable and experienced independent financial
advisors are critical to safeguard the integrity of the process; their involvement is integral to the
case-by-case framework that has been established (see below).
* Maximum restructuring efficiency and financial returns to the government from a sale will likely
come by utilizing outside, strategic investors who can bring renewed commitment and fresh ideas
to the business.
52. To meet these objectives in the case-by-case privatization program, the Government issued two
resolutions-Government Resolutions No. 363 of April 1, 1997 and No. 564-R of May 12, 1997-
specifying rules and implementation procedures for such privatizations. The resolutions require the case-
by-case privatizations to be fully open and competitive (including through equal and open access to
domestic and foreign buyers), and using openly and competitively selected financial advisors. The
privatization transactions themselves will also be widely advertised domestically and internationally.
Enterprises will be valued at market prices or, if they are not traded, based on international business
valuation procedures.
53. More generally, the Government has committed to implementing future privatizations on the basis of
a common framework of principles and procedures that ensures transparency, openness and competition.
The law "On Privatizing State Property and on the Principles of Privatizing Municipal Property in the
Russian Federation" was adopted by the State Duma on 24th June, 1997 (the Privatization Law). In
accordance with the Privatization Law, the Government submitted to the State Duma the "State Program
of Privatization in the Russian Federation" (State Privatization Program), which identifies state
enterprises held in federal property and subject to reorganization into open joint stock companies and



14
privatization beginning in 1998, and joint stock companies whose federally held shares are subject to sale
beginning in 1998.
54. Under SAL3, the 1998-99 privatization program will expand and accelerate significantly the process
of transparent and competitive privatization in accordance with Government Resolutions 363 and 564 of
1997, and through the significant reduction in the number of firms currently denoted as "strategic" and
their privatization. To this end, a special Policy Statementwas issued on July 20, 1998 by the Chairman
of the Government of the Russian Federation announcing these initiatives. The policy statement will be
published widely in the international media.
55. By July 15, 1998 the Ministry of State Property will issue an ordinance establishing a list of 15
enterprises that are part of the draft State Privatization Program and are to be privatized according to the
case-by-case procedures. The ordinance will establish a schedule for privatizing these enterprises such
that they will be offered for sale not later than December 31, 1998, if such dates are determined on advice
of independent financial advisors as most desirable based on market conditions. The percentage of
equity offered will be determined in consultation with independent financial advisors. These enterprises
are: OAO Orenburg Oil JSC (Orenburg oblast); OAO "Kovrovo Electric Machine Plant" (Vladimir
oblast); OAO Western-Siberian Iron & Steel Factory (Kemerovo Oblast); OAO "Stupino Iron & Steel
Factory" (Moscow Oblast); OAO "Nizhni Novgorod Machine Building Plant"; OAO "Oil & Gas Co.
"Slavneft" (Moscow); Rybinsk Instrumentation Factory (Yaroslavl Oblast); Kemerovo Mechanical Plant
(Kemerovo Oblast); Kamensk Chemical Factory (Rostov Oblast); Factory "Krasny gigant" (Penza
Oblast); PO (Prod. Association) "Avangard" (Ufa); GPO "ZiM named after Maslennikov (Samara
Oblast); Plant "Kommunar"; NPO "Geofizika" (Moscow); Vysokogorsky Mechanical Works
(Sverdlovsk Oblast).
56. By August 31, 1998 the Ministry of State Property and the Russian Federal Property Fund will hold
competitive bids and select 9 to 11 independent financial advisors among experienced, reputed
international investment institutions. These advisors will be engaged to (i) carry out pre-sale preparation
of the largest Russian enterprises, including but not limited to those denoted in the draftPrivatization
Program, and (ii) place shares of these enterprises on world markets in accordance with Government
Resolutions 363 and 564 of 1997. These advisors will, among other things: audit and appraise the
enterprises; suggest the likely market price of the transaction; recommend any required
organizational/managerial restructuring prior to sale; work out the optimal privatization scheme,
including the percentage of equity to be offered; and ensure that bids will be welcomed from all physical
and legal persons and foreign investors eligible under Russian law.
(i)    Within this framework, beginning July 31, 1998, the following ten tenders will be offered
on domestic and international markets before December 31, 1998, if such dates are determined
on advice of independent financial advisors as most desirable based on market conditions:
Rosneft, Sviazinvest, SIBUR, LUKOil, Cheliabinskinform, Electrosviaz (Moscow Oblast),
Novossibirsk Electrode Plant, Slavneft, NORSI-Oil, RAO UES.
(ii)   Within the same framework, beginning by the end of each quarter following July 31,
1998-i.e., September 30, 1998, December 31, 1998, March 30, 1999, June 30, 1999, September
30, 1999, and December 31, 1999-at least 7 firms listed on the draft Privatization Program
issued by the Government on April 21, 1998 shall be brought to point of sale within the
subsequent six months, if such dates are determined on advice of independent financial
advisors as most desirable based on market conditions.



15
57. To increase the scope of privatization, the Government issued Resolution No. 784 on July 17, 1998
that significantly reduced the list of "strategic" enterprises barred from any privatization to either
domestic or foreign investors from 3,000 to 697 firms. The enterprises removed from the "strategic" list
will be subject to transparent and competitive privatization processes, beginning September 30, 1998 to
December 31, 2000. In accordance with market conditions as assessed by independent financial advisors,
at least 10 percent will be brought to the point of sale by December 31, 1998, at least 15 percent by
March 31, 1999, at least 25 percent by June 30, 1999, at least 30 percent by September 31, 1999, 40
percent by December 31, 1999, and 100 percent by December 31, 2000.
58. In addition, by October 31, 1998 the Government will adopt selection criteria as to which of the
existing 6,500 agro-industrial enterprises will remain under exclusive federal ownership until the year
2000. Based on these criteria, by November 30, 1998, the Government will issue a Resolution specifying
the list of agro-industry enterprises that will remain under federal ownership until 2000. The list will
specify the name, legal address, core activity, and institutional and legal status of the enterprise. Starting
from January 1, 1999, the Government will, market conditions permitting, bring to the point of sale by
December 31, 1999, at least 10 percent of the enterprises not included on the list. Subsequent sales will
be announced in the future. The privatization process will be carried out according to the rules governing
competitive cash auctions, without distributing majority shareholding to suppliers of raw materials under
preferential terms.
59. Fostering Exit of Non-Viable Firms. To meet the Government's objective of establishing institutions
and policies that facilitate market-based exit, the policy framework for bankruptcy is being improved. A
new Bankruptcy Law became effective in March 1998. Relative to the previous law, the new legislation
provides for: (i) an increased role for creditor committees in the resolution of insolvency cases; (ii) more
expeditious appointment on a competitive basis of licensed trustees with authority to replace incumbent
enterprise managers; (iii) differentiation of classes of creditors; and (iv) stricter observance of time limits
for workout and liquidation proceedings by all parties. Nonetheless, the new framework contains abias
towards reorganization rather than liquidation of enterprises. To this end, by September 30, 1998, the
Government will submit to the Duma with a view to enactment by December 31, 1998 amendments to (i)
the Bankruptcy Law that eliminate court discretion in overruling the creditors' decision to liquidate the
debtor enterprise and (ii) amendments to the Civil Code to strengthen the rights of secured creditors. In
addition, the government will take all necessary steps to implement the new laws on enforcement of court
judgements, including by fully staffing the court officers' corps by December 31, 1998.
60. In addition to the actions aimed at improving the bankruptcy legislative framework, the restructuring
process in the Russian economy could be expedited by implementing pilot projects targeted towards
bankruptcy of insolvent enterprises in cases that are especially difficult in such a way that minimizes
possible negative social consequences of bankruptcy. For such purposes, and taking into account the
basic provisions of the new Bankruptcy Law, the Government will approve, by adopting appropriate
directives, a procedure for implementing and financing bankruptcy pilot projects involving insolvent
enterprises. The Federal Service on Insolvency and Financial Rehabilitation (FSIFR) will implement at
least 4 bankruptcy pilots embracing large enterprises that experience serious financial difficulties and
have bad market prospects. The results of the pilots implemented will be widely reflected in a report of
the FSIFR to (i) provide arbitrators with data on the relevant procedures; and (ii) provide creditors and
other persons concerned with the most detailed information about the mechanisms and advantages of
hearing bankruptcy cases in the court.
61. Enhancing Inter-Firm Competition and New Entry. The Government's program contains measures
to lower barriers to new entrants and to enhance inter-firm competition. To this end,the Government will



16
implement by September 30, 1998 measures to strengthen the mission of the Antimonopoly Committee,
both at the Federal and sub-federal levels, with a view towards introducing a more effective rules-based
institutional regime for competition policy throughout the Federation, ensuring that territorial branches
exist in each region. Through such measures and in the 1999 budget, the Antimonopoly Committee will
be given adequate financial and human resources commensurate with its revitalized mission. The mission
of the Antimonopoly Committee will have as principal objectives the creation of a unified economic
space throughout the Russian Federation and preventing restrictive business practices, in particular anti-
competitive mergers and acquisitions. The Antimonopoly Committee will develop and implement policy
measures that deal with reducing anti-competitive horizontal and vertical concentration and integration in
key product and geographic markets, including industrial and financial groups (FIGs) and the petroleum
sector.
62. By November 30, 1998 the Antimonopoly Committee will issue for public comment explicit and
well-defined merger guidelines that establish general policy parameters to distinguish between pro-
competitive and anti-competitive mergers based on similar guidelines consistent with international
practice. Following public comment, these new merger guidelines will be published widely by December
31, 1998.
63. The Antimonopoly Committee, in collaboration with other federal organs, will implement by
September 30, 1998 new measures to remove administrative and policy-induced barriers at Federal and
sub-Federal levels to the free movement of goods and services throughout the Russian Federation. The
measures will include stronger enforcement penalties than presently exist. To introduce at the Federal
and sub-federal levels new rules-based, streamlined business licensing procedures and fee structures, the
Government will seek passage of the Law on Licensing by December 31, 1998.
64. In order to foster resolution of business disputes, new measures will be implemented by July 31, 1998
that strengthen and enlarge the bailiff service so as to provide for more effective enforcement
compliance, including criminal sanctions, by losing defendants in arbitrazh court cases.
65. Improving Corporate Governance and Strengthening Investor Rights. As a high priority, the
Government will take steps to protect shareholders' rights and to introduce market-based incentives for
more effective corporate governance. To this end, the Government will submit to the Duma with a view
to enactment by December 31, 1998, legislation that amends the Federal Law "On Joint-Stock
Companies" stipulating, in particular, protection of minority shareholders' rights, including protection
from transfer of assets to parent (affiliate) companies, by enhancing the penalties for violating investors'
rights.
66. By September 1, 1998, the Federal Securities Commission (FSC) will adopt a Resolution on the
procedure governing compilation and submission of quarterly reports by issuers of securities, with a
special focus on information disclosure by enterprises quoted on public exchanges. By July 30, 1998, the
Government of the Russian Federation will adopt and initiate implementation of the State Program on
Protection of Investors' Rights that will spell out further key tasks and measures to be undertaken in 1998
and 1999. The Government will also ensure that the FSC will be provided sufficient resources to enforce
investors' rights. This will be achieved by assigning a share of fee revenue from licensing of securities'
market participants to the FSC.
67. By October 31, 1998 the Government will publish procedures consistent with Decree No. 395 and
Decree No. 392 for restructuring the debts of agricultural enterprises. By December 31, 1998, the
Government will implement the above mentioned procedures. In any new legal enactments regarding the



17
establishment of joint stock companies in the agricultural sector and the legal status of such companies,
the Government will affirm and protect the right of members of the joint stock company to invest the use
right of land in the charter capital of the enterprise while retaining ownership of the land.
68. Fostering Labor Mobility. Pro-competitive restructuring of enterprises depends on the efficient
allocation of labor in the economy. With this objective in mind, the Government will submit to the Duma
by November 1, 1998, a new Labor Code that would bring the labor laws in compliance with the
requirements of a market economy. The Code will establish a realistic and feasible minimum of social
guarantees, enhance the role of individual labor agreements, including a more simplified procedure for
dissolving individual labor agreements (such as excluding the need for consent of trade unions and
finding alternative employment), and expand the ability to enter into fixed term and multiple-work
contracts. The Code will also contain provisions targeted at forming and implementing collective
agreements at the level of individual enterprises, as well as ensure the establishment of efficient
institutions ensuring implementation of individual and collective agreements, settlement of collective
disputes and compliance with the requirements of the labor legislation.
69. Developing Land and Real Estate Markets. Reforms in the areas of land and real estate have lagged
behind overall economic reform in Russia. An inadequate legal framework for sale, lease and other
transactions in land and real estate represents a major constraint for entrepreneurship and new business
entry. Effective monopoly ownership and control over urban land is exercised by municipal
administrations. This monopoly has led to artificial limits on the supply of urban land and real estate
made available for competitive commercial lease. It has also led to the widespread misallocation of
commercial real estate. In the absence of a comprehensive framework governing transactions in land and
real estate at the federal level, regions have proceeded independently to pass their own legislation. Some
subjects of the federation prohibit privatization of land, while others have initiated their own reforms
ahead of the federal authorities (e.g., Samara, Saratov, Tatarstan, Khanty-Mansy autonomous region.)
70. Land issues have become a political question as well as an economic one. The tense political struggle
regarding transactions in land and real estate has resulted in a deadlock over enactment of a Land Code
that would confirm the constitutional rights of citizens to own land and engage in transactions mediated
through markets. Since 1992 most land reform has been carried out on the basis of presidential decrees
and government resolutions. The threat that the Duma will withdraw rights at present affirmed by
presidential decrees is a serious impediment to further development of land markets. In December 1997 a
presidential Round Table meeting on land reform was convened. In accordance with the Decision of the
Round Table, the President directed the Government to develop a program of measures to further land
reform, and to draft priority legislation for consideration by the Duma, including laws on state and
municipal ownership of land, on land management, on appraisal, and on regulations regarding land
transactions. In the spring of 1998 a new Governmental structure was created through merger of the
former Ministry of Construction, State Land Committee and State Committee on cartography into one
Ministry of Land Policy, Construction and Housing. The merger is intended to ensure comprehensive
and consistent policy with regard to land and real estate.
71. The law on State Registration of Property Rights and Transactions with Real Estate passed in July
1997 and came into effect in February 1998. A Registry for real estate was established at the same time,
although the registration system requires further development in order to become fully operational.
Payment for use of land has been introduced with differentiated rates of land tax and lease payments
depending on the location and quality of land plots. Land and real estate taxes brought revenues of 9.4
billion Rbs to the budget in 1997. In July 1998 the Government submitted to the Duma a proposal to
increase sharply the land tax as one of several revenue-enhancing measures. Since the Duma failed to



18
pass the land tax increase as it was proposed by Government, it was enacted by a Presidential Decree No.
854 of July 18, 1998.
72. The Mortgage Law was passed by the Federal Assembly on July 9, 1998, and came into force on July
22, 1998, thereby facilitating new financial instruments to accelerate activity on real estate markets.
However, the new law does not allow for mortgage of land that is state and municipal property and of
land belonging to agricultural entities, farmers and field plots. Further action by the Government is
needed in this area
73. To accelerate the pace of change in the areas of land and real estate, the Government has committed
itself to approve by late August 1998 the Federal Program on Development of Land Reform in the
Russian Federation in 1998-2001 to be enacted by the end of September 1998 by a Presidential Decree.
The Program will include an affirmation of the rights of citizens to engage in transactions in land,
including purchase, lease, and mortgage, and will specify a program of actions to facilitate transactions.
The reform strategy outlined in the Program will focus on pragmatic and readily implementable steps to
clarify rights in land, transferring commercially valuable land from municipal and state ownership to
either private ownership or long term (49 years) lease, and simplifying the procedures by which
transactions in land can take place. The Program will be supported by an action plan for implementation
to be approved by October 30, 1998. In addition, the Government will strengthen implementation of
Presidential Decree "On Exercising Individuals' Constitutional Rights to Land" No. 337 of March 7,
1996 in order to ensure that agricultural enterprises using land owned by shareholders enter into formal
contracts regarding land use.
74. In view of the continuous delay in passing a market-based Land Code and the deleterious effects of
the delay on land markets and land values, the Government will submit to the Duma with a view to
enactment by December 31, 1998 legislation dealing with such issues as land management, appraisal,
cadastre, and delineation of ownership rights over publicly held land by state and municipal authorities.
By December 31, 1998, the Government will adopt and start implementing aresolution to establish the
program for the phased introduction of the uniform system of state registration in accordance with thelaw
on State Registration of Rights and Transactions in Real Estate. The resolution will clarify the steps that
will be taken to have functioning registration offices established at the rayon level, the specific nature of
inter-agency cooperation required, and the sources of financing for implementing this plan.
75. Accounting and Auditing Reform. Without timely and accurate information that conveys an
enterprise's financial performance and condition, market signals and incentives cannot work to encourage
economically efficient enterprise management, restructuring and investment. A prerequisite to efficient
working of the financial sector is the emergence of an environment which encourages enterprises to
provide such information to would-be lenders and investors. Therefore the Government's objective in this
area is to improve the quality of financial information available for managers and investors and help
attract more capital, beginning with the development of financial accounting and auditing standards for
enterprises consistent with international practice.
76. Introduction of International Accounting Standards. In 1998 the Government undertook an
important step towards implementing International Accounting Standards (IAS) by adopting a nationwide
program for accounting reform based on IAS. The program envisages the creation of national accounting
standards fully compliant with IAS, adjusting the existing legislative base with due regard for the
requirements of a market economy and international practice, establishment of the accounting profession,
and training and retraining of accountants.



19
77. Russian accounting remains in many ways an instrument of a command economy and gives primacy
to administrative functions. Russian accounting also lacks the functional division between internal
(management) accounting and external (financial) accounting. IAS is directed at providing infornation
to interested users-namely, investors-for the purpose of carrying out economic decisions. In a market
economy accounting standards are subject to regulation so as to ensure the usefulness of information for
outside users.
78. The objectives of the Government's accounting reform program are: (i) to establish accounting and
reporting standards that ensure the full disclosure of information that permits assessment of the financial
performance of organizations for a wide range of interested users; (ii) to ensure that accounting standards
in Russia are harmonized with those utilized internationally; and (iii) to provide methodological
assistance to enterprises in comprehending and introducing a system of management accounting.
79. The program calls for the priority ten national accounting standards to be implemented by January 1,
1999. The new Chart of Accounts for commercial entities, budgetary entities, and professional
participants in the securities market and investment funds is to be adopted by the beginning of 1999.
Establishment of the accounting profession will be completed through development of professional ethics
standards, certification of professional accountants, and retraining of accountants in enterprises by 2000.
80. International Standards of Auditing. A parallel set of activities to those described above regarding
accounting reform are also to be undertaken to introduce independent audits of enterprises. The
Government will finalize the draft law On Auditing in the Russian Federation and submit it to the State
Duma by November 30, 1998, with a view to enactment by March 31, 1999. The draft law will provide
for the gradual transition of auditing regulation powers from Federal bodies to the self-regulating
independent auditing profession. In accordance with the 1998-1999 Program of Auditing, where the
accounts (financial statements) of economic entities are to be subject to auditing standards based on
international practice, the Government will ensure implementation of necessary measures to arrange for
national auditing regulations (standards) to be developed on the basis of the International Standards on
Auditing (ISA). By December 31, 1998 the Government will adopt twenty two audit standards (inclusive
of those adopted earlier) in compliance with ISA. By May 31, 1999, an additional eleven auditing
standards based on ISA will be adopted by the Government.
81. International Trade And Foreign Direct Investment Policy Reform. Russia's trade policy has
remained liberal over the years of reform. Tariff and non-tariff restrictions on exports ceased to exist as
of 1996. As of early 1998, programs for oil exports for "state needs" were also canceled. The trend for
import regulation is also generally positive, if more mixed. Beginning in 1996, import duties previously
above 30 percent were reduced to this level, and there has been no major increase over last two years.
Moreover, in the Government recently issued several resolutions reducing import duties from 30 to 20
percent for one-third of the tariff lines previously at the maximum level. As a result, the average import
duty has remained below 15 percent since the last across-the-board revision in 1995.
82. However, with the domestic currency appreciating in real terms over threefold since 1992, domestic
producers' pressure for protection against imports has been gaining momentum. Restrained from
adopting discretionary quantitative restrictions on imports by obligations undertaken under the SAL
program, increasing attention is being paid by the Government to protectionist options available in the
context of import safeguards, compensatory, technical and other restrictive mechanisms. In view of this,
the Government's compliance with internationally accepted procedures for introducing such restrictions
will become of crucial importance for preserving the liberalization that has been achieved.



20
83. Maintaining a Liberalized Trade Regime. Under the SAL program, trade policy commitments have
been made to prevent quantitative restrictions on international trade transactions. If protection measures
are necessary to prevent injury to domestic producers (of a product or close substitutes) from imports,
they will be price-based, precisely defined, temporary, and nondiscriminatory, and will be introduced
after appropriate procedures consistent with WTO rules are followed, and taking into account the costs to
consumers and users. Centralized trade will continue to be limited to arms exports and defense-related
equipment. Trade under intergovernmental agreements and credit arrangements guaranteed by the
government will be conducted on the basis of market-based procurement, with prices at world levels, and
related expenditures and receipts will be reflected in the budget. The Government will refrain from
operating any system of export controls under the disguise of mandatory monitoring of quantity, quality,
or price of exports.
84. Harmonizing Standards and Certification Procedures with International Practice. Under the SAL
program, a commitment to avoid setting up new technical barriers and to reduce existing ones for
international trade also has been made. A new procedure for mandatory certification will become
effective in 1998, which will both reduce the number of imported goods subject to mandatory
certification, and simplify imposed requirements. An approved Concept for Developing Certification will
target gradual substitution of a producer's declaration for the current pre-market certification.
Duplication of certification procedures applied by different ministries will be eliminated. By end- 1999,
harmonization of Russian standards in priority sectors with internationally accepted ones will be
essentially completed.
85. Improving the Policy Regime for Foreign Direct Investment The Government is committed to
enhancing the enabling environment for foreign direct investment. To this end, by September 30, 1998 a
special Policy Statement will be issued by the Chairman of the Government, which will be published
widely in the international media, that states the Government's commitment to continue to improve the
policy framework for foreign direct investment by bringing the fiscal, regulatory and legal policy regime
in line with international standards. Measures to bring about such changes will include the following
reforms: (i) "national treatment" will be adhered to both for right of establishment and for post-
establishment operations; (ii) the number of restricted sectors and limitations on foreign direct investment
will be substantially reduced; (iii) enforcement of property rights will be strengthened; (iv) investor-State
dispute resolution mechanisms will be made more efficient, including giving foreign investors the
opportunity to seek neutral, binding international arbitration; (v) foreign investor registration procedures
will be simplified, rules-based, and made transparent; (vi) guarantee schemes covering basic non-
commercial risks will be maintained and extended; and (vii) restrictionson foreign investment in services
sectors will be reduced.
D. Fiscal Management
86. Context. Fiscal reform has become the sine qua non for restoring market confidence in Russia's
ability to maintain macroeconomic stability. The Government is keenly aware of the need for fiscal
reform and, in particular, raising the primary fscal surplus in order to sharply reduce government
borrowing. Federal revenue collection has worsened while the interest debt burden on the budget has
swelled, rising to a forecast 40%-50% of 1998 government revenues. To hold to federal budget deficit
targets the government has again been forced this year to sequester expenditures and take emergency civil
service cuts. The rapid growth in short term debt financing of the deficit led to increasing uncertainty
over the sustainability of Russia's debt burden, and provoked the government into announcing the anti-
crisis Economic Stabilization and Finance Program in late June 1998. Key fiscal measures under the



21
program include improvement of tax administration, raising and rationalizing select taxes, and
restructuring of budget commitments.
87. A Presidential Decree setting out the budget parameters for 1999 was issued on July 16, 1998.
Subsequently, a Presidential Address that formulates the 1999 budget-including key measures to
underpin the budget targets-was signed on July 17, 1998 (and published on July 20, 1998). The
Government's strategy focuses on further reducing the budget deficit by turning around the ongoing
serious erosion in revenue collections while also making more effective use of limited fiscal resources.
The federal government has committed itself to undertaking measures aimed at increasing total revenue
collection from around 10.6% of GDP projected in 1998, to a targeted level of 13.2% of GDP in 1999,
while holding constant nominal federal non-interest expenditures. As a result, the 1999 primary fiscal
balance is targeted to improve to nearly 3% of GDP from a small negative balance this year. This
dramatic shift will be achieved through efforts to broaden the tax base, improve revenue collection,
strengthen budget management, rationalize government spending, reform intergovernmental fiscal
relations, and strengthen debt management and monitoring capacity. In addition, the government is
committed to improving the management and cost efficiency of extrabudgetary funds, including the
Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Employment Fund and Road Fund, together representing nearly
10% of GDP.
88. Eliminating Non-payments and Arrears. Russia faces a non-payments crisis that has severely
undermined fiscal policy and management at every level of government. Arrears in wages, enterprise
payments, and public expenditures threaten the very foundations of the cash economy. To address the
non-payments crisis several measures are being adopted to compel both governments and enterprises to
effect timely cash payment. At the sub-national level the government is committed to making federal
transfers to regional governments conditional on maintaining current accounts payable of 45 days or less
of sales to infrastructure monopolies, liquidation of arrears outstanding to these natural monopolies, and
maintenance of wage and payroll tax arrears at 30 days or less of the current wage bill. Conditionality is
also to be applied by regional governments with respect to their intra-regional transfers to municipalities
to help in tackling the chronic problem local utilities face in payments enforcement. All transactions are
to be done on a cash basis, eliminating the use of tax offsets as a vehicle for payment. These conditions
are to be applied beginning with the 1999 budget.
89. Collection of tax arrears from large debtors will also remain a central element of the revenue
collection strategy. The Emergency Tax Commission, established last year and then dormant during the
political transition to the new Kiriyenko government, has been reconstituted and will meet monthly to
enhance measures targeting collection from the 20 largest remaining tax debtors. The Government's
commitment to this has been evident in efforts to get the largest tax debtor,Gazprom, to adopt a plan for
scheduled repayment of its nearly $2 billion in outstanding arrears.
90. Reforming the Tax Structure. A principal government objective of fiscal reform is improving the
tax system to reduce distortions, strengthen compliance, and boost collection levels. The present tax
system has many shortcoming which act to distort incentives across sectors of the economy and further
encourage widespread tax evasion. Declining tax revenues have resulted both from shortcomings in tax
administration, enforcement, and in the structure of taxes. The high level of inter-enterprise arrears has
led to a decline in tax liabilities. Barter transactions in the economy have become widespread, with as
much as 40% of GDP transacted outside of formal cash channels. These problems have deeply crippled
the revenue capacity of government at every level, and fundamentally compromise the efficiency of the
tax system.



22
91. The Government's plan for a major overhaul of the current tax system is centered around the Tax
Code, which provides for a comprehensive and consistent legal basis for the Russian tax system. Part I of
the Code (focussed on tax administration) was passed by both chambers of the Federal Assembly in mid-
July 1998.  (The Presidential Address of July 17 instructs the Government to seek passage of
amendments to Part I of the Tax Code by end-1998.) Part II of the Tax Code (on tax structure) is
expected to be considered by the Duma in late 1998, and the Government is working closely with the
Duma and Federation Council with a view towards securing enactment by the end of the year. Beyond
the recent adoption of the Tax Code, both chambers of the Federal Assembly also passed a law removing
tax exemptions for closed territories by January 1, 2000 or when the existing agreements expire,
whichever occurs first. They have also passed a law approving a 5 percent sales tax (albeit with
exemptions for bread, milk, and children's food and clothing, among other provisions).
92. However, at the same time the parliament rejected: expansion of the base for the personal income tax;
transfer of 20 percent of personal income tax proceeds from the local to the federal governments; an
increase in the land tax; and expansion of the base for the payroll tax. In light of these actions, the
following steps have been or will be taken: (i) regarding the personal income tax, the Duma will be asked
in a special session in August to approve an expansion in the base and a shift of 20 percent of the tax to
the federal government; (ii) regarding the increase in the land tax, the change in tax rates was introduced
by Presidential Decree on July 18; and (iii) Pension Fund finances will be addressed through amendments
to the current law on pension contributions, which will be submitted to the special parliamentary session
in August, and through other actions (see below) to increase employee payroll tax contributions (from I
to 5 percent) and reduce employer contributions (from 28 to 24 percent).
93. In mid-July the Duma also passed tax legislation calling for a reduction in the oil excise tax and in the
profit tax. Taken together these actions would have involved a revenue loss of Rub 12-13 billion in 1999.
Presidential Decrees vetoing these tax reductions were issued on July 18, 1998.
94. In the coming months the Government intends to rationalize the system of capital income taxation,
and has submitted legislation to introduce an improved framework. This is the first comprehensive legal
treatment of capital taxation in the Russian Federation, and is a high priority for legislative reform.
Under current legislation, differing rates of tax treatment across securities, savings deposits, and other
savings instruments introduce distortions that will reduce savings options facing consumers and deter
development of long term savings instruments. To improve this framework before implementation, the
government intends to revise the Tax Code with the objective of adopting uniformity of tax rates and
treatment for securities and other financial assets, including elimination of double taxation on investment
through collective investment vehicles such as mutual funds.
95. Improving Tax Administration. In addition to rationalizing the tax structure, the Government is
committed to strengthening tax administration and efficiency of the Treasury. The State Tax Service
(STS) has been hampered in its ability to collect taxes by several features of the law which restrict its
authority to levy fines and enforce payment. The Government is committed to rectify this through
upcoming amendments to Part I of the Tax Code, including reduction of excessively restrictive time
limits on assessing taxes or fines for non-payment of taxes, removal of interest rate caps placed on fines
levied on tax arrears, simplification of tax administration procedures of the tax authorities, and
elimination of deferrals for taxpayers with arrears from the budget. The Government is also developing
plans to restructure the STS to both reduce excessive staffing in regional and local government offices,
while strengthening capacity of the federal STS offices. Streamlining of the STS will include making
both the Federal Agency for Foreign Currency and Export Control and the Tax Police subordinate to the
STS, and duplication of these offices' functions will be eliminated. Other initiatives under way include



23
steps to make tax agents who fail to transfer withheld taxes to the budget subject to criminal liabilities,
and giving the tax authorities the ability to issue liens on the bank accounts of tax delinquents.
96. The role of banks in enforcing tax collection through the banking system needs to be revamped as the
current system has negatively affected financial intermediation through the banking system. By
September 1, 1998, the Government will establish a plan to remove tax administration functions from the
banking system. In particular, legislation will be passed defining procedures for the STS to issue liens on
any bank account and resources held in the banking system in line with international practice. A major
goal of this plan will be to eliminate the use of settlement accounts by the tax authorities by January 1,
1999. In line with international practice, the STS will begin seizure of real assets or initiate bankruptcy
proceedings against any enterprises for which there has been a lien on bank accounts for 60 days or more.
97. Reform of Extra Budgetary Funds(EBFs). Significant progress over the last two years has been
made in reducing the number of EBFs operating outside budgetary oversight. Remaining EBFs are
largely confined to provision of social insurance. The major exception to this is the Road Fund, which
the Government is committed to bringing onto the budget in 1999 and to including its revenues fully in
the federal budget. However, among the remaining earmarked EBFs -- the Pension Fund, Employment
Fund, Medical Insurance Fund and Social Insurance Fund -- several shortcomings remain which the
government is committed to addressing.
98. The Pension Fund (PF) is the largest EBF and has been exposed to persistent budgetary problems due
to inefficient distribution and administration, payroll tax collection and enforcement difficulties, and
political pressures to frequently adjust and augment benefits beyond the revenue capacity of the PF's pay-
as-you- go system. Deteriorating revenue collection and an increase in pension payments in March 1998
helped cause the re-emergence of pension payment arrears during 1998, which currently stand over $2
billion. To restore solvency in the PF, the Government is committed to taking several measures to raise
collection capacity, cut expenses, and maintain affordable benefit adjustments commensurate with the
PF's revenue base. A Government Resolution has been issued that introduces, as of August 1, 1998, a
temporary 2 percent earmarked tax surcharge on the personal incomes to be paid to the Pension Fund.
This same resolution will also expand the base for the employer contribution. The surcharge will remain
in place and further increases in pension benefits will be avoided as long as the Pension Fund remains in
deficit or new pension arrears are being accumulated. In addition, legislation will be proposed to the
Duma in the special August session that will expand the base for both employee and employer payroll tax
contributions, and will shift the burden of the tax from employers to employees. Should these measures
prove insufficient to restore Pension Fund balance by September 1, 1998, the Government will either
reduce pension benefits starting with those above the minimum or further increase the payroll tax
surcharge. Further efforts will also be made to reduce the administration costs of the Pension Fund. In
order to ensure budget organizations comply with their obligations to the PF, from September 1, 1998 the
Federal Treasury will transfer directly to the PF federal allocations for payroll tax payments on budgetary
employee's wages.
99. The Social Insurance Fund (SIF) is the second largest EBF, financed from a 5.4% payroll tax and
equivalent to about 1 percent of GDP in total expenditures, and has been running a surplus in recent
years. The main function of the fund is to provide sickness benefits, maternity benefits and insurance for
temporary incapacitation in the workplace. The SIF has, in addition, been providing a range of services
that are not related to its social insurance function and are inappropriate to public provision or use of
earmarked public funds, such as health spas and vacation supplements. The Government is committed to
eliminating these non-insurance related expenditures and to streamlining and reducing the burden of
financing the SIF through the payroll tax. To this end, the Government is committed to cutting the



24
payroll tax contributions to the fund from 5.4% to 4.9%, and to an objective of reducing overall
expenditures of the fund by 25% in 1999. Any surplus generated by the SIF and not used in the provision
of insurance related benefits will be transferred to the Pension Fund due to the chronic problem of
pension financing and the recent decline in revenues of the PF. This should lead to a transfer of as much
as one sixth of SIF revenues in 1999.
100.  The Employment Fund (EF) is charged with providing unemployment benefits and job search
assistance, and is funded through a 1.5% payroll tax on enterprises. Unemployment varies significantly
across regions in Russia. In some oblasts with large industrial enterprises that have closed or declined
sharply, unemployment levels are extremely high, and the tax base has fallen to levels far below
requirements for meeting unemployment benefits requirements. Other regions have relatively low
unemployment and contributions rates far exceed regional needs. With only 20% of total revenues
centralized at the Federal level, many regions remain unable to provide benefits and have large
accumulated arrears, while others have excess funds being spent on less essential and unrelated purposes.
In an effort to improve its effectiveness and strengthen oversight of expenditures, the Employment Fund
will be subjected to treasury control from October 1, 1998, and will be recorded as an earmarked item in
the Federal Budget. In addition, the Employment Fund's revenues are to be collected by the STS as of
January 1, 1999 on an earmarked basis.
101.  Strengthening Budget Management.  The basis for reformulating the budgetary system and
improving budget management is embodied in the Budget Code, first introduced to the Duma in 1997,
and finally passing both Duma and Federation Council readings mid-July 1998. Its provisions on budget
responsibilities, comprehensiveness, unification, monitoring, reporting, auditing, etc. provide a solid basis
for regularizing the entire sphere of budget operations and dramatically improving their transparency and
efficiency. Although adoption of the Code represents a major step forward, it is not without some
shortcomings and inconsistencies that will need to be addressed through subsequent amendments to the
Code. Implementation of the new Budget Code in formulating the 1999 Budget Law is a basic objective
of the Government this year.
102.  To accelerate processing and control over disbursement of budget funds the Government has
made substantial progress in the expansion of the computerized treasury system, allowing for unified
accounting and direct payments. The volume of payments processed by the federal treasury has steadily
increased through 1998, and now accounts for over half of all payments. The Government is committed
to moving all federal agencies fully into the Federal Treasury with a single treasury account by January,
1999, including the Ministry of Defense, the earmarked budget funds, and all foreign exchange accounts
of the STS and State Customs Committee.
103.  The Government is also committed to downsizing and improving the design and capacity of the
civil service. As part of the emergency fiscal package announced in June 1998, the Government decided
to reduce total civil service employment by nearly 200,000 positions. To avoid unnecessary costs and
deficiencies in the quality of public services as a result of this downsizing and further restructuring
efforts, the govemment has completed a civil service census and is committed to build on this through
preparation this year of a strategic program and timetable for administrative reform.
104.  Reforming  Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations.    Issues  of  decentralization  and
intergovernmental relations are at the heart of many of Russia's key fiscal problems, not least because the
success of tax and other budgetary reforms fundamentally relies on their voluntary implementation and
enforcement at the regional and local levels. The current system of intergovemmental fiscal relations is
expensive and inefficient. Many regions receive unconditional grants, and the system does not provide a



25
sufficient equalizing effect given the large fiscal imbalance among regions. There is also growing
evidence that regional administrations do not fully implement federally designed and mandated structural
reforms. This is one of the reasons why implementation of reforms in key areas such as housing, real
estate and land market policy has been so slow. Finally, there is a need for further clarification of tax and
expenditure sharing at each level of government because under current arrangements, incentives to
improve tax collections at regional and local levels are inadequate, and the revenue base is not designed
to systematically take into account expenditure assignments. This has made restructuring of revenue and
expenditure assignments, and attention to unfunded expenditure mandates, central issues of
intergovernmental fiscal reform.
105. The Government has decided to undertake a comprehensive restructuring of intergovernmental
fiscal relations and has set up a tripartite Working Group, including representatives of the Government,
Duma and Federation Council, to develop the fiscal reform program. An initial concept paper for
restructuring of fiscal federal relations was adopted in April, but is being reformulated and finalized in
July. This will serve as the basis for fiscal-federal reforms scheduled for implementation through
reformulated legislation or amendments of existing legislation, including the Budget Code, Tax Code, and
Law on Fundamental Financial Principles of Local Self Governance. Preparation of the annual Budget
Laws will in turn be made consistent with these new legal foundations. A separate Concept Paper is
bring prepared through the tripartite Working Group to formulate principles for restructuring of intra-
regional fiscal relations, and is due to be completed by end-September, 1998. The Government is
committed to reformulating the legal basis for revenue and expenditure assignments at each level of
government. The timetable for this is to have reformulated fiscal foundations embodied in new
legislation drafted and submitted to the Duma by April, 1999, and to have this fully reflected in
preparation of the 2000 Budget Law.
106.  Reformulation of the system of federal transfers is central to this agenda. Several measures have
or are being undertaken in this regard. Special subventions to Moscow and Sochii have been eliminated,
and traditional budget subsidies to the remote regions will be eliminated. The Ministry of Finance has
already signed agreements with most regional governments with respect to conditioning repayment of
outstanding budgetary loans. Debts will be restructured and/or forgiven on condition of, inter alia,
eliminating wage arrears, stopping the practice of budgetary offsets, restructuring local civil servant wage
scales in accordance with federal guidelines, bringing tariffs for housing and utilities in line with federal
standards, and establishing energy consumption limits for budget-financed entities. Failure to comply
with these conditions will result in regional allocations from the Federal Fund for Support to Regions (the
equalization fund) being substantially reduced.
107.  The current system of federal transfers is also to be basically restructured, ending the opaque and
inefficient system of individually negotiated 'mutual settlements' with the regions. These flows will be
channeled through three mechanisms: the Fund for Financial Support to Regions (FFSR- transfers for
equalization), the Fund for Regional Development (FRD-loans and grants for public investment), and the
Fund for the Development of Regional Finances (FDRF-loans for reform). Initially, allocation of the
FFSR (equalization funds) is to be formulated around actual revenue performance in 1997, while during
the course of 1999 a new formula will be established based on the principles of (i) reducing inequality of
revenue capacity of subjects of the federation, (ii) use of federally defined expenditure norms to define
expenditure needs, and (iii) strengthening incentives for regions to increase revenue collection.
108.  Debt Management and Monitoring. The Ministry of Finance system for debt management and
monitoring is at present fragmented across departments responsible for foreign debt, domestic debt, debt
with the IFIs, and obligations with CIS countries. Of even greater importance is addressing weakness in



26
the capacity of the Government to coordinate strategy for selection of debt instruments, structure, and
composition across sources of financing. To strengthen capacity in this area the Government is
committed to developing a unified debt reporting structure, and to improving the coordination and
management of external and domestic debt, at both federal and sub-national levels, within the Ministry of
Finance. By January, 1999 the Government will initiate implementation of an integrated public debt
monitoring system intended to cover both sovereign and sub-national debt, including all obligations of
federal and sub-national authorities. In the process of implementing this system the Government also
intends to adopt a new and more comprehensive definition of public debt to include all public contingent
liabilities or conditional obligations, including guarantees, and all public bonds and securities.
109.  Growth of largely unregulated subnational borrowing has become a serious concern for the
federal government as significant regional defaults could have national consequences for public finance,
with a direct impact on federal budget obligations, and serve to raise borrowing costs for both federal and
subnational governments. As a consequence, the Government is committed to improving the oversight of
sub-national debt and enacting legislation to establish transparent prudential limitations and conditions for
sub-national borrowing. The Ministry of Finance will play a key function in both monitoring and
verifying contracting of these obligations as a condition for subnational borrowing. In order to fulfill this
responsibility the Ministry of Finance will establish a strengthened central registry for the public debt of
sub-national governments.
E. Banking Sector Reform
110.  Context. Increasing the role of financial intermediation in the Russian economy by deepening
banking reform is a necessary condition for longer term macroeconomic stability and a sustainable
financial system. By international comparison, the Russian banking system is small: the total assets of
the system account for only 25 percent of GDP and deposits represent only 11 percent of GDP. In the
initial years of transition, a large number of poorly capitalized banks were established. More recently, in
an effort to minimize systemic risks, the Government and the CBR have made substantial efforts to
improve banking legislation, strengthen the regulatory environment and bank supervision. As a result,
the banking sector has started consolidating, although at present there are still approximately 1,700 banks
in Russia.
111.  The authorities have developed a systemic approach to address the problems in the banking
system. This will be aimed at (i) not only resolving problems of weak and insolvent banks, but also at (ii)
strengthening supervision and compliance, (iii) improving the accounting, legal and regulatory
framework, including an efficient payment system and (iv) formulating a longer term strategy for
developing competition. They are also (as noted earlier) changing the role that banks are playing in the
administration of taxes, which has negatively affected financial intermediation.
112.  Strengthening Supervision and Resolving Problem Banks. The CBR has made substantial
progress in improving the quality of bank supervision. However, implementation of prudential
supervision needs to be strengthened in order to minimize the effects of weak banks on the stability of the
banking system. This would entail upgrading the supervisory capacity of CBR to identify banks with
actual and potential weaknesses and to apply sanctions to weak banks before they become so fragile that
they need to be restructured. In 1998, banks have engaged in a variety of foreign exchange forwards and
options in order to hedge the foreign exchange risk. The use of those instruments has in turn brought
about a significant level of counterpart credit risk which has not been reflected in the banks' balance
sheets. This practice only exacerbates the fragility of Russian banks which continue to rely heavily on



27
short term trading of government securities and face a risky and increasingly impaired asset portfolio. In
order to minimize those potential risks to the banking system, new prudential rules are needed.
113.  To this end, more stringent prudential rules, especially with regard to banks' foreign exchange
operations and positions, will be adopted. The requirement to provide consolidated reports beginning on
January 1, 1999 will be extended to non-bank financial institutions. The government and the CBR will
make every effort to ensure that amendments to the Central Bank Law to expand consolidated reporting
to non-bank subsidiaries of commercial banks will be adopted by January 1, 1999, sufficiently prior to the
implementation of such reporting from July 1, 1999. Prudential norms on banks' off-balance sheet
foreign currency exposure also will be strengthened, by September 30, 1998, through the imposition of
limits on single party and connected party exposure, and out-of-money options will no longer be
considered adequate for covering on-balance sheet exposure.
114.  Over the short to medium term, the CBR will continue withdrawing. licenses of weak and
insolvent banks and streamlining the banking sector. Liquidation of small insolvent banks (with capital
of less than ECU I million) will be stepped-up and their licenses will be revoked by January 1, 2000
should they not reach the new minimum requirement. With regard to medium and large banks, the CBR
and the government will devise a comprehensive approach for addressing problem banks which will
include: (i) diagnosis; (ii) corrective action; (iii) bank restructuring; and (iv) bank liquidation. Such a
strategy will be reflected in a bank restructuring framework to be prepared by October 31, 1998. The
framework will be formulated on the basis of a full diagnosis of the size and nature of the problem and
will involve setting out uniform rules and procedures to be followed.
115.  The government and the CBR also will make every effort to have the Bank Bankruptcy Law and
the laws amending the CBR Law and the Law on Banks and Banking Activities enacted by end-1998 to
improve the CBR's supervisory powers and to provide an adequate legal basis for the bank restructuring
framework. These laws will include adequate provisions to strengthen the regulatory powers of the CBR,
including revoking licenses, effectively liquidating insolvent banks, and imposing further liability on
banks' shareholders.
116.  Enhancing Transparency. Banks still operate under accounting standards that do not comply
with international standards. Introduction of full international accounting standards for all banks would
bring about transparency and confidence in a banking system based on reliable information. Banks are
currently required to submit accounts according to the recently modified Russian accounting standards.
All banks under the World Bank's FIDP project are also required to produce IAS accounts, but only a few
of these banks have actually implemented IAS as the basis for their internal information and control
systems. One of the reasons why the authorities and the banks have been reluctant to the introduction of
international accounting systems is that the Russian accounting system allows the banks to continue to
control enterprise payments (i.e. function as the treasuries of the enterprises), assess their tax liability and
make payments of taxes due. To this end, by September 30, 1998, the CBR will adopt a timetable to
introduce accrual accounting for banks, with a view to introduce such accounting on January 1, 1999 if
the Tax Code is in effect at that time. By January 1, 1999, and in tandem with the Tax Code, the CBR will
bring the Russian accounting standards in full conformity with the main principles of the International
Accounting Standards (IAS).
117.  At the same time, the CBR will continue to increase the transparency of its own operations and
will put in place requirements to increase transparency for commercial banks. The policy of announcing
weekly data on external reserves, begun in June 1998, will be expanded to include the announcement of
base money. The CBR will publish summary information on the financial situation of the 30 largest



28
banks on a monthly basis and a requirement will be introduced for banks to provide quarterly disclosures
of key information. The standards for disclosure by banks holding more than 10 percent of household
deposits in the banking system will be significantly expanded. By August 1, 1998, the ten largest banks
will be required to publish quarterly accounts, have annual accounts prepared and audited by a reputable,
qualified firm, and make the results public.
118.  Fostering Competition. Finally, the Government is keen on the establishment of a competitive
banking system, which can efficiently intermediate savings into investment, as an integral part of the
development of Russia' private sector in the medium term. The degree of concentration in banking is
high--the 10 largest banks account for about 50 percent of total assets, and Sberbank alone accounts for
about 75 percent of all household savings deposits. Most banks continue to concentrate their asset positions
in maximizing returns on short positions in government securities and foreign exchange. In addition, banks
still have weak credit assessment and risk management capabilities. To this end, tie CBR will formulate a
strategy by the end of 1998 for fostering competition and a strong and efficient banking sector in the long
run.
PART m: PROGRESS UNDER THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
119.  In June 1997, the Board approved the first structural adjustment loan for Russia (SAL1), a single
tranche operation. SAL2, a two tranche operation, was approved in December 1997. Attachment 5
contains the Policy Reforms Program Matrix, which describes the measures under SAL1, SAL2 and
the proposed SAL3. What follows is a summary of progress under SAL2.
120.  All prior actions for SAL2 were implemented by late November 1997, and it was approved,
became effective, and its first tranche ($400 million) disbursed in late December 1997. During the
December 18, 1997 Board presentation of SAL2, staff noted: (i) that the trend of most macro-economic
indicators was positive; (ii) that the Government had accelerated implementation of structural reforms in
1997; and (iii) most importantly, that the Government had begun to implement a strong, newly
formulated "Fiscal Action Plan to Increase Tax Collection and Reduce Federal Budget Expenditures" and
had also made significant progress towards establishing a credible new macro-economic framework.
Taken together, this provided a sufficient basis to proceed with adjustment lending despite continued
weak revenue collection and expenditure management, as well as a brief delay in the completion of the
IMF's 6th Quarterly Review of the EFF.
121.  In early January 1998, the IMF's Executive Board approved the 6th Quarterly Review of the
EFF. Macro-economic indicators for end- 1997 confirmed the positive trends noted earlier and, following
through on the critical actions taken in mid-November, all basic elements of the Fiscal Action Plan were
implemented. Progress on the 1998 budget framework reinforced the prospect of its satisfactory
implementation. Against this background, the judgement was made that a fully satisfactory macro-
economic framework was in place, and the second $400 million tranche of SAL2 was disbursed at the
end of January 1998.
122.  Since then, overall implementation of structural reforms has been uneven, although in the last
month it has improved. Progress in the banking/financial sectors and in trade policy has been good; and,
in fiscal management and the reform of infrastructure monopolies (electric power, natural gas, railroads),
it has been steadily improving. However, there have been serious delays in the quantity and quality of the
privatization effort, especially in moving forward with the transparent, competitive "case-by-case" (CBC)
privatization of large, strategic firms. Progress in specific areas is summarized below:



29
a) Financial Sector. The introduction of measures to improve banking supervision, regulation and
payment systems reflects both the commitment and capability of the Central Bank of Russia (CBR).
Improvements have been strongest in prudential regulation and in the treatment of problem banks,
although much work remains to be done. Introduction of IAS accounts has also begun but needs to be
intensified. The banking system continues to face serious challenges in bringing about effective
intermediation. Exposure to potential volatility in the foreign exchange market has become a key
issue.
b) Trade Policy. Steps have been (and are still being) taken to bring technical and product labeling
standards in line with international practice. The emerging framework for "trade safeguards" (anti-
dumping, countervailing duties, etc.) has been made more consistent with international norms.
c) Fiscal Management. For much of 1998, the Government has been facing the challenge of
implementing the November 1997 Fiscal Action Plan, designed to strengthen tax collections and to
manage effectively the reduction of expenditures while reducing the distortionary impact of the tax
system. It is putting in place a system of regular monitoring and reporting on tax expenditures, and
expanding the capacity of the Federal Treasury. In recent weeks, significant progress has been made
in enacting key fiscal elements of the June 1998 anti-crisis program. As noted earlier, Part I of the
Tax Code has been passed by both chambers of the Federal Assembly, as have a national sales tax
and the Budget Code. A Presidential Decree was issued setting out the budget parameters for 1999,
and a Presidential Address formulating the 1999 budget-including key measures to underpin the
budget targets-was also issued. On the other hand, the parliament rejected expansion of the base for
the personal income tax; the transfer of 20 percent of personal income tax proceeds from the local to
the federal govermments; an increase in the land tax; and expansion of the base for the payroll tax.
Fiscal management has been weak in the enforcement of sanctions against large corporate tax
delinquents; measures to reduce the cost to the budget of special allowances and subventions; and,
the elimination of non-payments practices through tax, wage and payments arrears, especially at the
sub-federal level.
d) In infrastructure monopolies, progress has been most obvious in electricity, where steps have been
taken to reduce cross-subsidization, e.g., by decreasing prices to industry and increasing those to
households. Establishing a wholesale market for electricity is also proceeding. In natural gas, prices
have continued to be re-balanced in line with efficiency principles. The authorities have put in place
a "third party access" decree to enable independent gas producers to gain access Gazprom's
transmission network, although implementation has been problematic.  In railways, cross-
subsidization is being reduced by lowering freight tariffs and raising passenger fares, although there
is some recent evidence that pricing of freight is being set to help solve specific export sectors.
However, in the infrastructure monopolies overall, progress in competitive restructuring, de-
monopolization, reducing barriers to new entrants, and divestiture and privatization of vertical and
horizontal segments that are not "niaturally" monopolistic has been slow.
e) As far as private sector development is concerned, a new bankruptcy law has been enacted and
progress has been made on the preparation of a legal framework for land transactions, although a
Land Code providing for comprehensive private ownership of land remains elusive. In addition,
work has begun to phase in (over several years) generally accepted accounting principles consistent
with International Accounting Standards (IAS), as well as to phase in independent audits. Critically,
however, owing in part to serious conflicts between various interests within and outside the
government, the new "case-by-case" (CBC) privatization program, which is predicated on the use of



30
independent financial advisors to assist in the sale of large, strategic firms in a transparent and
competitive manner, appeared until very recently to have stalled. The recent failed attempted sales of
Rosneft epitomize the authorities' partial commitment to the CBC framework: financial advisors
hired to carry out pre-sale preparation were given only two weeks for a highly sophisticated
transaction that usually would require several months; and, there was no competition or arms-length
procedure employed in the marketing of the tender and the transaction itself. In recent weeks,
however, the authorities have acknowledged these weaknesses in their utilization of the CBC
framework and have now signaled they will more fully embrace CBC procedures.
PART IV. THE PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Rationale and Objectives
123.  Country Assistance Strategy. The last full CAS, approved by Executive Directors on June 5,
1997, envisaged expanded lending to Russia during FY98-99 on the order of $2-3 billion annually (of
which up to two-thirds in adjustment lending), subject to the authorities' commitment to accelerate the
pace of structural reforms. In this connection, SALI and a Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL)
totaling $1.4 billion were approved on June 5, 1997 and SAL2 and Coal SECAL2 totaling $1.6 billion on
December 18, 1997. This substantial outcome was triggered by the authorities' commitment to and
effective implementation of overall structural, social protection and coal industry reforms particularly
during calendar 1997. Meanwhile, although the last CAS assumed a transition from mainly adjustment to
mainly investment project lending by the year 2000, recent external and domestic policy developments
suggest that the share and also absolute amount of adjustment lending that may be needed during the next
18-24 months will possibly be higher than originally contemplated. This issue, and related implications
for FY99-00 lending and Bank exposure, as well as Russia's creditworthiness, will be addressed in a
CAS Progress Report planned for distribution to Executive Directors in October.
124.  Economic Justification for Adjustment Lending. The economic justification for the proposed
SAL-3, and more generally for enhanced adjustment lending to Russia during the period immediately
ahead, is twofold:
(a)    Accelerated economy-wide structural reforms.  The authorities' structural reform
program covers a wide agenda, and adjustment lending is the most effective instrument for
supporting the process. Moreover, the main revenue benefits of key fiscal reform measures will
materialize only in the medium term;
(b)   Fiscal adjustment during external shocks. Since late 1997, Russia has experienced two
external shocks: sharply lower international prices for two of its leading exports (oil and base
metals); and, the contagion effect of the East Asian financial crisis. Both have adversely affected
public revenues and exacerbated the fiscal deficit.
125.  Consequently, even with strong efforts at fiscal consolidation, the Government will continue to
have considerable financing needs for the budget in the short term. Financing these deficits by issuing T-
bills (GKOs) is still expensive, and maintaining price stability will require continued tight domestic
credit, thus precluding any significant borrowing from commercial banks. The Government is thus
seeking financing from external, non-inflationary sources, including multilateral institutions and the
Eurobond market. As part of this financing package, World Bank adjustment lending would provide



31
some additional non-inflationary budgetary support during the next stage of economic transition,
providing breathing space while structural reforms help strengthen the Government's revenue base and
reduce expenditure pressures.
126.  Features of the Policy Package for SAL3. The proposed SAL3 focuses on cross-sectoral,
economy-wide reforms that have an immediate impact on macro-fiscal balances and are critical for
renewed growth. The policy targets are specified for the remainder of 1998 through mid-1999 and
beyond. The Government's structural reformn program supported by SAL3 is reflected in the Letter of
Development Policy (Attachment 4). The fourth, fifth and sixth columns of the Policy Reforms
Program Matrix (Attachment 5) show the set of reform measures supported by SAL3 over time: (i)
those that will have been completed between the presentation of SAL2 to the Board and the presentation
of SAL3 to the Board (the first tranche), and those that are to be completed for the (ii) second and (iii)
third tranches.
127.  The same broad components that comprised SAL2-fiscal management, private sector
development, infrastructure monopolies, and financial sector reform-underpin the basic structure of
SAL3. However, given the new challenges and opportunities presented by the recent crisis, the proposed
SAL3 incorporates a significantly enhanced reform package as follows:
Broader Sector Coverage. Within a given component, measures cover a greater number of
sectors. In infrastructure monopolies, for example, in addition to electric power, natural gas and
railroads, the operation covers reforms in the oil sector. Under private sector development, new
areas include competition policy, corporate governance and investor protection and the agro-
industry sector. The international trade component includes measures to improve the policy
regime governing foreign direct investment. Fiscal management includes measures to monitor
and manage sovereign and subnational borrowing. Banking reform includes measures to enhance
competition.
Deeper Sector Coverage. In certain areas, SALI and SAL2 laid the institutional framework for
reforms that necessarily precede fundamental policy changes. SAL3 provides support for such
changes. In the infrastructure monopolies, for example, the framework for a wholesale electric
power market has begun to take shape, but the establishment of independent generation
companies and/or divestiture of local Energos has not heretofore been on the SAL agenda.
Under the proposed SAL3, effective implementation of such reforms are targeted. Previous SAL
reforms in natural gas have focused on pricing issues and creating an institutional framework for
third-party access to Gazprom's transmission network; under SAL3, competitive restructuring of
Gazprom has been placed on the agenda. In the other components of the proposed operation,
similar deepening is incorporated.
Growing Parliamentary Involvement. It is increasingly evident that the deepening of reform will
require broader "ownership" of Russian society, including Parliamentary involvement.
Accordingly, the proposed SAL3 contains several measures that require parlianentary passage of
legislation, not simply Government submission of legislation. Examples include the completion
of the Tax Code, an Oil Pipeline Law, amendments to the Bankruptcy Law, amendments to the
Production Sharing Agreements statute, a law on Shareholders' Rights, a Law on Business
Licensing, an Audit Law, among others.
Back-Loading of Tranches. The proposed operation incorporates a design of progressive
implementation of more difficult measures, a realistic reflection of the challenge of Russia's



32
reform process. Accordingly, tranche amounts have been back-loaded, with progressively larger
increments over the operation's time-frame.
128.  The proposed SAL3 has been prepared in parallel with the IMF's (i) 1998 EFF and (ii) recently
approved enhanced assistance package; this is reflected in the Statements of Economic Policies and
Letters of Intent for those two programs). The close collaboration between the Bank, the IMF, and the
Russian authorities has helped to strengthen substantially the content of the Government's structural
reform program. The proposed SAL3 also provides a crucial vehicle for intensive technical assistance to
the Government both in the detailed design and in the implementation of measures under the program.
129.  Roadmap Beyond SAL3.  SALI, SAL2 and SAL3 have been designed to support a
comprehensive, extended structural reform program that at this stage is seen as lasting at least until the
beginning of 2000. So far, much of the detailed structural reform agenda has been specified through the
third quarter of 1999, with a few measures beyond (as reflected in the Policy Reforms Program
Matrix). Possible future adjustment loans could continue to be cross-sectoral or may be more sector-
specific. They could support implementation of reforms in late 1999 and into and beyond the first half of
2000, in parallel with the Fund's 1999 EFF program.
B. Benefits and Risks
130.  Benefits. The loan would encourage and enable the federal government to accelerate and deepen
a broad range of structural reforms, some of which were initiated under SAL1 and SAL2 as well as the
EFF program. As discussed above, these reforms are critical to sustaining macroeconomic stabilization
and stimulating renewed economic growth. The low-cost, non-inflationary budget financing provided by
the proposed SAL3 would, at the margin, confer financial (debt service) savings as well as significant
economic benefits (lower domestic borrowing, lower interest rates, lower inflation, higher investment,
and ultimately higher growth). The reforms supported by the proposed SAL3 would help increase
efficiency across a wide range of sectors by helping create the conditions for a more competitive and
open private sector-oriented economy.
131.  The joint SALIEFF process has already generated considerable benefits by assisting the
authorities to articulate an integrated program with complementary macroeconomic and structural reform
priorities. These benefits would be significantly enhanced over the course of this and next year by more
frequent monitoring (see below), during which Bank specialists would work closely with the authorities
to help carry through and build on the key reforms being supported. During the supervision process,
Bank staff would help the authorities elaborate the next stage of reforms for late 1999 and beyond.
132.  Economic Risks. Russia faces a number of serious economic risks. The main exogenous risks
are twofold: further declines in the prices of oil, gas, petroleum and other key products; and possible
continuing contagion from financial crises in East Asia and elsewhere. The mainpolicy risks are that the
ambitious fiscal deficit targets for 1998 and 1999 may not be achieved; that the actions needed and the
political will required to raise tax collections and to enforce spending discipline may be delayed or be
inadequate; and likewise that key structural reforms aimed at improving the climate for private sector
development will not be implemented fully. In addition, there are financial risks related to the
vulnerability of the banking system. There is also the risk that bankruptcies and layoffs may compound
existing social tension; while it is difficult to gauge the severity of the latter, this is clearly an issue that
needs to be addressed in the coming months.



33
133.  While international price movements for key commodity exports are clearly beyond Russia's
control, the situation can be partly helped by creating a better climate for new investments and greater
efficiency in existing operations through improved transparency and competition, e.g., by passage of PSA
legislation and the Tax Code. Unsustainable public debt dynamics need to be addressed through a
permanent reduction in the fiscal deficit. The chances of achieving this may be higher than before
because: (i) the recent crisis has forced the new Government to recognize this is an immediate,
fundamental issue; (ii) the institutional framework for revenue collection and expenditure control has
been enhanced; and (iii) the leadership of the STS has been greatly strengthened. In spite of these
favorable factors, it will not be easy to put public finances on a sustainable path, thereby engendering
lower real interest rates, nor to implement fundamental structural reforms, thereby establishing policy
credibility and restoring investor confidence.
134.  Programmatic Risks. The Bank's program in Russia faces substantial political, economic, and
institutional risks, which were discussed in detail in the last CAS. In addition, implementation of SALI
and SAL2 demonstrated, on the one hand, that technical support was essential to the success of the
reform agenda, but, on the other hand, that even with such support, there is no certainty that the
Government, or in certain cases the parliament, will successfully implement the reforms.
135.  The proposed SAL3 is clearly a "high-risk-high-reward" operation, and experience with SALI
and SAL2, as well as the specific risks of the proposed SAL3, suggest certain additional mitigation
measures. First, although substantial progress was made in earlier structural reforms (especially price and
trade liberalization), the experience indicates the importance of a stable macroeconomic environment for
reform in many key areas. As noted, the proposed SAL3 supports key structural measures in the fiscal
management and banking reform areas. In addition, the EFF's fiscal and monetary policy programs are
expected to continue reducing inflation and achieving a viable fiscal deficit, including through tight
controls over fiscal subsidies and credit expansion. Nonetheless, there remain major risks associated with
macroeconomic instability, compounded by the turbulence in international currency markets. The
proposed operation will help to mitigate this risk not only through its strong fiscal management measures
and the resources it will provide to Russia's economy, but also through close coordination with the IMF's
ongoing EFF program.
136.  Another lesson is the importance of a intense monitoring and supervision to ensure that the
reforms are implemented properly. As many of the reforms are complex, supervision efforts need to be
adequately staffed to provide detailed technical assistance as necessary. In addition, due to the increasing
political sensitivity of many of the reforms proposed, supervision will need to focus attention on critical
measures at the highest political level.
137.  Finally, given the risk that the measures supported under SAL3 may not be followed through by
the Russian authorities adequately, the proposed operation is back-loaded, with progressive tranching.
138.  Creditworthiness and Bank Exposure. While Russia's long-term creditworthiness prospects are
fundamentally favorable, they have worsened significantly in the short term, owing partly to factors
already noted earlier, namely: the East Asian crisis that has affected emerging markets globally; the
deteriorated terms of trade as a result of lower energy and minerals prices; and, the authorities' poor
fiscal performance. High interest rates, the mounting debt service burden on the budget, and weak
revenue mobilization all underscore the crucial importance of strengthening fiscal capacity and
accelerating the structural reform agenda. At the same time, Russia will soon face a decline in net
external transfers as principal and interest payments to the IMF and the Paris and London Clubs increase
rapidly during 1999-2000. Total debt service is projected to increase significantly - to over 18 percent of



34
exports of goods and services by 2001 - but should remain manageable, given current expectations about
export performance, terms of trade, and assuming effective implementation of fiscal and structural
reforms. However, negative external official transfers commencing in the year 2000 will have significant
implications for the financing of the budget deficit, underscoring the Bank's role as Russia's largest
official creditor commencing 1999.
139.  In this connection, assuming new commitments of about $3.1 billion in FY99 (including the
proposed SAL3) and $4.5 billion duri-g FY0O-01 and assuming no further adjustment lending after
FY01, the Bank's exposure in Russia (debt outstanding and disbursed) is projected to increase from an
estimated $9.6 billion by end FY99 to $12.9 billion by end-FY01. While the latter would remain just
below the current $13.5 billion single country exposure ceiling, it would essentially eliminate the
headroom available for responses to possible future emergencies. It would also pose significant risks.
The planned "back-loading" of SAL3 is thus designed to ensure that the fiscal and structural measures
needed to underpin systemic macroeconomic and structural reforms--and also to improve the country's
short-term creditworthiness--are fully in place before the main enlargement in Bank exposure.
C. Coordination with the IMF
140.  The proposed SAL3 has been developed in close collaboration with the IMF to ensure
consistency and complementarity between the macroeconomic program and structural reforms. At the
request of the Government, Bank staff began working with Fund staff and the Government in early 1995
to develop the structural components of the Fund's EFF for 1996, which was approved in March 1996.
Since then, Bank staff have worked with Fund staff in designing and implementing the EFF, and most
recently the Fund's enhanced assistance package. As noted earlier, the design of the proposed SAL3
builds on that close collaboration. The policy content of the Government's reform program supported by
SAL3 and the 1998 EFF and the Fund's enhanced assistance package have been elaborated in intensive
tripartite discussions between the Bank, the Fund, and the authorities-with Bank and Fund taking the
lead in the structural and macroeconomic areas, respectively, and with the coordination and collaboration
giving rise to substantial synergies.
D. Board Conditions and Tranche Triggers
141.  Prior Actions for Board Presentation. During negotiations, it was agreed that a set of prior
actions would be undertaken before presenting the loan to the Board. These prior actions include: (i)
approval of the IMF's enhanced program; (ii) RAO UES to publicly announce its intention of increasing
private sector participation in Energos in which RAO UES has a stake; (iii) a Government Decision
requiring RAO Gazprom transmission, production and supply enterprises to operate as separate
cost/profit centres, with separate management teams and their own accounts based on international
accounting and auditing standards; (iv) establishment of an interagency commission on Competitive
Restructuring of Infrastructure Monopolies; (v) issuance of a resolution requiring RAO UES and Energos
to establish separate accounts for generation and transmission; (vi) issuance of a resolution providing for
elimination of state regulation of prices for gas produced by non-Gazprom producers; (vii) issuance of
revised oil pipeline pricing methodology for public comments; (viii) the Ministry of Railways to provide
the Government with book value and ownership details of assets identified for divestiture; (ix) the
Ministry of State Property to issue a list and timetable of 15 enterprises to be privatized under case-by-
case procedures; (x) issuance of a resolution mandating audits of EBFs; and (xi) issuance of a resolution
approving Concept Paper on Subnational Reform.



35
142.  Tranche Triggers. As noted above, SAL3 is designed as a back-loaded adjustment operation,
with progressively larger tranche amounts. Accordingly, disbursement of $300 million of the $1.5 billion
loan would be available immediately upon loan effectiveness. A second tranche of $500 million would
be available following completion of the measures outlined in Box 1 (estimated December 1998). A third
tranche of $700 million would become available following completion of the measures outlined in Box 2
(estimated June 1999).
Do        --1 SAL3 Conditions for! Secnd TrancReleas
RAO CAZPROM has reorgaized its -regional rasmission operations itoa single int|f:Vegraed0TTVi ;0 
transm-ission nterprise or into a number of% tansmission enerpri  sol  res0ibe for gs
transmission_services    blished icow  ance-with th ivl Codeadw  baed 11 onmajori t i sson.'' -
icorridors. RA    AZRM  a frhr established separte maaeeteaate acut bsdo
int io          nngst dsad sarate co/pirespnsibiy forthe new    smission
eIese or e eis, therdion ntses,  tl    n oles
The GOvrnen   s eStabis  revisedS sstemof gs            eswhih a        t  p 
c'0omponet f thetaxat the level ofmnooy rdues including promdersE whicharepar ofth
tax revenue.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tx:  -  16t
Te GproposedLawe onithe intsoduction of Changes andAditions to Legisaoiv e Actn of theRussiat
t Federationl ensun fro  th Fdra La  On Prdcto Shrng Agemns thmLeetio
regulaions elatig to he La onPouto  haigAreet and any ncerssar M   amenmnst h
Tax tCode tohr ieisprovisionswithtetx eieprov00ided foriin te La on Prodcin Sharting
Agreemenits hae benenafcIedrand enteeddito force.
planagdupo        he G rnm nd th Ba s st otiP                 31- 35of heLt o
Developm ent 6o lbgi*i cy                                               0
The proposed  w on  liiensinhbeen adped and edi onto frIc .       A      ie sa
prodIen, taportr~dsrbtr  n  n  teette n          te upl chinandhasw funseWarpr
,,ec i L97 jsil i  :  t  jj jj;  i i j ,on.  8n  i         n
,:::  M - !' E ' S :  0i
Ag  mto 1        eneit id' an"id   m oea      oagtned_'b_ "Mt
..SN  LiiNji, lEE triL!t.:.t ::t;2::    .  .  f Rs.



-
I - :::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::;::::.::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::: - --::::::::: :::::::::;::::-:::::::;;::::::::::::;:;::- :::::::;:::::::::::;;::::::::::::::::!::::::::::;:::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::I:::!:::.::::::::::::-- ::::.:::.:::::.:::::::::I:: ::::::.
::.:::::::. . .q::.::::::a;:::::::z::::::::.:!ww:::::::::::::w;w::::::::::::wqqw:::::::::::q.q::::::::::::::qw::::::::::::::::::::::::w:w::::::::q;;:::::::::::w:wq;::::::::wwwr::w:::::::wwmwr:::::::::w:r:: : : : : : : . w w .: : : : : : : : : : : r w :  : : ::::N:ww::: : : : : : : q : : : : : : . : : :: : : : : : : : :  : : : : : : : : : ; : : :  : : : : : : :. . .:::::::::;..:.: : : .:.::.: ::.:
.1:1.1, ..::: :::::::::::.:;:;::::::::::::::::;::::M ...... :::::t::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::;;::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::i::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-i::::ii"4:::::.:
4. .....: 1: : :::;::::::::::::::::::;::::::- :::::::: ::::: :::::: : :-:---i:- :::::::::::::--::::::::::::::::::::::::::-: ..... ::::::::::--: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :. ::::::::::::: ::.:::::::: :-:::::::::::::::i:!;:::::
-- . .....I :::::::-: ::::::::::::::::.:::::;:::::::::::::::!::::::.:: ::::::;:::::-. ::.::::: :. .::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::: .................................................................................................................... ..........I............ ... ...... .. I......I
--:.:::::. :::::,:.::::::::::::!:!:::::::::::::::::.:::::::I:: -::::::.,.- :!;:::. :: ........ ......... .. ................. :::-:::mmq:::::::::-w:u .. ........... .::ii)ii----.-....W-.........:i;iw:...M....01:.......,..i...-.M-i-i .-W:
-..::: ..... ....... ........ ... ... :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::;;;;..":..
-.... ::.:::::::::: .:;:ii:.:m:::::: :::.::.:::::::"...;:::!::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::.I.: Ill :::
-:::::. --- - ... ..::: .... :::: .... I I .... ...:;..... .... ..... I ..........I
.::.i .... II:: .... : -:::::: ... :::::z:i:..:,::::::::::...:..::::....:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ..... I ........ :: 1: .............:..... .. .....:I I ....":::
.:::.:....::::::::.:::::::::::::::::.'I ............. .. ......... .............. ::::::::::;::::::::::::;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::.;:::::
.. ............ .. ....... - ...... :...... . .... .... ........ ..::::::::z:::.
:.7 " - .,...... .....:................................. .... . ....... :: .......... .. :: .......... ............. .........
... Aw: .. ........................ ............ .......... . ..... .... ;:
:..:.::.::::: .:: .::O.::... ::MTC
... am .. :::
..-.. 106 ... giz: ::
.:: .. :: :: :: :::I. ....... ....... I::
.:::0...... ......I
-........................I........ ..... -::: ................ .. ...... ... Z--:: :: ..
.... ::,I ... ......... . .. ........... ..... .............. ...................
:.T.
..::: ca......: J-4:000**d: I .. ..... .... I .- mill II
Virm,. ,m. .....
.- ........ ........ -- ........ .I ... . .... ........ ..
I.., ...... . ...... ............I:: I .... ..I.. I ...... .............. .............
-::::::::::- ...--l .. ... --,f;.f:::::; -,- ------ -::- ...-.... 1.111,I....................I.... :: .............. :: ..............N...................................:..... .. ...... ........... :::::.::,::::::::::;:::::::::::::::
.... :. .-:::::::w:w::a::::::::ww .................. --.::::::.::::::
... :::::. -:::::: ............. .... -..
:...,.. ... : ..x .:,--- ........... :::::::::::::::::: .................-................
:, :. .... :. ... Illi -, --:::::.::::::::::::-::::::7 ..... ::::::"::::::::::"::;:,:::::::::"::::::::":::;::::: - .. Ulffi:.T.:::
..:i ....
..,,!::UD 11-Jlll-'W--.lqwP'.'9- :: ...
.: .. ... 4w. Irm 30sOP ."...:: ::-....U::
.:.q .... .i....... .. -....'.  o. ....,,:::
....I....... :: .... ... ... ...... -. .# .(... ::::::::::::::::i.slmm
... - -1. :: ..............
:: .............. :w :F: .... :..... -..... ... .-. U-1. -P I'm :: :: ..:. ::......:: :: ........ 9:w:m ......... ....
::,.. .... .. ... . .-P ........ Mil ..::.........i::i:::i:;;;::::.. .P ....
... , -- . ..............-I
..l...--:. ... .. ...... .- ........I........................ ...I...... ... ............. .....
::: .........................  -..-... -:::::::. -:- %;::.- ::..: I....... ... .::-::::::::::-::::::::d...::::::::-:::..::::::::.:::::::::: .:.::::: :::::::;.:::::::::::
,. U. ma .. -P.W W.,:, 1::;:
q-:...:;i:
::. ...:.:
::...
.3
... 1.:.. :FW-P
.m. - M. IO.m., ,..::.:.....: .... :::
:: .. .. . ...... .: 1.1 :: .... w., .00"":
U..... .tl.=.14:,:"'':::::;::::"::::::::,:, ,7pm:d - "" i ::i:::! ........ :::0- ..........O..... ..... .. ........ . .......... ....
................ . ....  .TI.- MPRWKI.C.P.M.Ift 04::::': ::::01I.M.".1,10-14 ....-.. :,:: .... ..M1. .. . ...p
::lw;:ww :.... ::%;. -pift- ......... 1:1. I.-A ...... ......... -.1 .... -.- .... -.--... .:. - ......I.........-......... -- . ..... ....... ::.:-::::::::::::
-- ---. --- - - .... ...... ..... .- -.... .-- .... -.1 . ..... ::::' ':::::: .. .... :: ...:::
.: ::: ..: .. :: ..
... ::
R.'lgip .:u
.: ::, :::... 
.: .. -::.
. .
,::: .:: i: i 1:  p W.` .10-) " MOW
..1!lit : to. ,.
...i:,:Q;, O.... :-:,V.u.w-.llrjuv:.,. . .. ..d: .V::: 1: ::::::: 6.
:::  :D:.:I. :.
:::. - -7 :, . ..:
.. I 1. I .. ..W.. ...P.- -- - :11 ... :::.
::: ..... z..: .. . .......... .. ........:... W, ;:: :::: --:. ... :-::-::::l, :. !I .. .. :... .. ".:
.....-........ ..... ...-.. . ...-----. . .... :: -............ . .. .-:.% .... - I..:..
.. . ... :::.- . .... . ... ... ... ... . . . .. .......... .... :: : -:.::::::w::-:.:.::.:::::::::
;..., Two -M v w -._---,,,q--,,q:;-...
. ::Iim. . I .I
...
....,..
.. .: ...4... .. ::qo4mqpp::a :-vo ,...
.; :i% pm.::* .:w%-:Osqoovw, '..
::...:: m -.'.-r -.q.. dj,v.
...... . ........ ::.-P ....: 1.0 ..''  ... n p. .... ..q ...T -..", ::: ..::: .."."". I :::
..... 4.M.... :: .. ...:..... I.:,..I, ,% ...... -.14 ...4, ... ,,, ..,::
-4m..............'', ",...P.. -::: ... -... .... . ........I.... 1.1-1:11'...I..... ....
......... .. ..  .90".. . -.- - ::- .... ......11,-.. .. . .... 11, ......... .. ........ ... ....... . I. -
I. : :. I. I M J.
..2 :  4= A.,:
..        ....  .  .i: .                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..:.                                                         :.                      .        .           .:
. 1: '"' "' a...-,-.:
.                                                            ::M                  ft'd                                             :::4,                                                                                                                                            :X. ...-..... .:11    sso =. ::S=                                                                              ut  I.
I..M
....... IVM:MIPA:AL:
I...- .... ...... . .. ......... : ... .: ,...: -.....: .11.1.:
I  -- ... .. : . ....... ::...
1-1. : .:!!:..:::O.:.:: ....: ....
: :-:::::m::!ww:w:w .... ::.. . : :::.,:O-........
.... ::.:::::::::::::::;:::::::::-:: .......... . .... :: ..... - : ..:.-..... -  -. ::.:::. :.:::::::::::.:::! . . ... ..... . .-
::;:::::::::::::.:.:wz::: :.::,.: -:::.::: ... :..:::-:::::::::;;::::::::::::z:;:: ..... :-:::...: ::..... :... :..: .........::.:..:..  ..:.:..., .:..:. -:-'. :::..ww.w:-:::::z:::w::w::::::
-......... . ...... w.w.. :::::.:,..: .. :.::::::::.;:::::::::::;:;;;:::::::::::::;:::::: w:m:w!::..... .:: .... .- -.1 .... .......I... I... . . .......................... :::::::::::::z:::.:::.:i:::::,..:;:::
-- ................... I 1: :11; .: ... - .::: - - :: i. -:.::: .1.1, . ..... .I.................. ::
-.................... :z:..:.: .-::-:!.t- . :::::::::;::::::.:.:.:::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::.::.:.::.:::.. :... I I... ........ ::.. -::... :::, -.... : :....... --:-:::::;:::::::::;;::::z::;;;::::::::::::: ... ::::::-
..:::i:.i":...:::::::::::::::f.::::::.::.:::::::::.:::;:::::::::::::::z::::::::::::::::::::::::::z:::: ::-::::w::::::. ;.::q. ..::. I.:.:.: .... : I.. .. - "I'll ...-....... ::z:::::::w:::::::::: .... :::.
.:;::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::t:::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::.::::::::::.....::t:.::::::.......:'. .::, .:. ..:::,;, mpt.::::.-wm::: ...-... - ............-.... :::::z ..... :::::::.. .:::::
::::: ... :_: .... ::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::-::::::;.:;;..;:.:::::::-:::::;::::::::::::::::;;:z.::::::::::;;;;:::::::::::,:;:::: :::w:::ww:w:::.w:w.w::.w.:..: ... ww.: .... :: ... I.C. ...... ........ ::::::qz:::::::q:--:: ..... . .. .......
:: .. :- ...:: -t ... W. ..-:: ..
.-:: "L-.::
:: : !- ---:;;::::- :::::::::::::::::::z:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::z:::: .: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::-:::: :::::::::::: . .  :::.,: .A:.
.*
-:;::.:::.::::::z;--:.::::::. ::;:::. .:::::::;::::.: :::::::::::::::::::::::wqww .... ::::w:w::::z .... :::;:::::::::::::::::..::-:::...- :::::'.66: -.1 --G--A
-:::::::::::::::;::i:q :--.;:m::::i- ::z::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i -::::::w:;:::::z :::::::w:::::::;:::::::::z:: : - :.. i::::::: :::;0--.:; .... tw ...- ...... .... ....... .1, ......................
.:--ql.llq  :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: .- 's .::.: :: ..:: ..... .... ..  66r1l '::' ... 1. :
.........:  ::::. :..:.::; ....I............ .............. ..... ..... 13
..:::::::::::::::::::::::::z:::::::::::::..:..::.::.::::-: -:.i ... 0.'...'...'...'.'.'......'.....O.::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::;;;;: ....... ... :::::: ...- .. ...............................
;, : :: .: a .a :ww , -v .--::..
. .....:W
.           .     .....
OJ I. 0a..:%..:,:":.,::.:..:il.::.::"Pj.pm::
",........... .":,....::::.::.::::"::::::::::;:!""OI . .. ...... '',W,.d.::,:;::::::::::"::::::
--:::::: :- ... :: .... .....'M----l-`W*:R"m:l:lw:qw: I ... .. W.., gm.
-.... i 0 I. ... ouiow
J.... 3wp p" &T.-::Wjl: ... P.... R: . .... .(huQ..'..!:
i ...M,I .:,=:::-.: .... :t: ..... 11 ........... :9 .......:......... ::.::.:... ... ::,...
11- ........----- ............. -- ........ .. ..... lq:. ......... , ,-.:.... ::-i:::z:w:::m:::::::::::::::::":. ...... -:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: . ......... .- .......... -:: ...:
.,. , .................. 3i ...... ft I .. :::.
.. :PrM:W -':q'..:RW ... OUDIU.P ...
.. , ,.- ,
:.,, "' `::::::: . ...... . ....... ..:.... ::::!"
.1.
::i.&:::::: ,::::: . . .. . . ......... .....
q: . IT17U;:..:::::.::
- `
 ... --- .....I................ mot
: I :::. .::.. all.", - - V.." T1.1,11 . ....... 4 -....P
-. . ............ v:.:: a .: I - --:..: :::
Pi-.....4.... ::::....W-. .... 1- ...'- ...t:% -Swm.m. -0. 00.0-111.1 ..... ..
. ....... ;- . .........-. I..... ... 1--l... .... --- ........:... -- ............:... -- ....:... -.1 ... ......... .:... .-- .... ::. ..::: ...-.
.. -... ............ .. I..... ............. :::
::. "''. .. -:4 :.. ...... I....
in --M q:...,. ilw .;:In .....'4 . ....... ARM, ...........-. ,
.. ::: i.::::
...-:::. .16.I 'M ::: ..... MRAOW
. I:M::;
-suoUzz.a. 0,10. --a .Iii ...... ..e-:: .. .:: :AM V... I-
.....- , I .. :: . .... [MI-I....
I'.  .q .!!.,:
:.::.., ..... ....-.......  -iz,..i... .. - ... ::: ::.:
-..W...TA..4 ......... N ," '. ...
.---:::::-I... .. . .. .... ... .- ............ -- ....... -- ..............I... ......- .... ... .-........ .. .. ... .::::  ..:.: .... :::.
...-...
I.,nvwg(A'. .::: :::
6W. ::p(>drL : :::.:7.:::,.dijw , -`jj v ,:. ... .P.
-::q::-,s:,.q ::- :: o' I ii-, ;E::%
.. P":J"q "Ca ,..-' - d6 ..... :-:!!::! :::!:!:T-.A-r
:. ::: !: .... :-.:..--. q.-...: ..... ... .::..,::: . ... ... : I . ....P.
-.: . . .. ....... ::: ",....,.,:I-
.. ..... -..-;::::! ...... p::::%-: -:.-.:-I.......,.:.::i:--.. I...... ......... . .. ... I.. .. ..... . ... :::
-. ---.- ,:-::. .- ....:.; : - .I  ..:.
......  -..:.p:.....::::-::::-: -::;:::.!:::: ..-.:::.:. : : ...  - ..: -.I.... :.i:-:.
:..:.-:.-:::.:::. ....-I.: I I......... .... .....::::::: --::::-i .. .... q:..I-p  .:.. I -.-:- .:.:
.-.. :::::::: .I I-:11 1-111:::1 11 "I'll", I ....  : . .... .:
I:;.L .:::::::;; .::::.:.. -7 : - -::.::.L 1. ''I'll - --.
:- ... - -- -.:::::,::- .-.--...11-11,.,... --
..... :::::::,  -:;.::!:::-.:'-:::::. .   -., :. I....I -- ... --
::;::::::: )::::: . ..... 1:I. . .... I :-.:.:.:.: ..... :::.. -.:.:..P... -:P:.....- --- .... .: ......-.... I ..
..... . ::.:.:.:.:::::.::::::::::::.::.... :::::::: ...... .-:::.:::%.p -:-::::::.-:-. -'. -.-i- -- - ... :: ..
,:::.:...  -,::::.. ..:::.. ::
,.- -::::::!:!:!.-umigold.."
-::.  .. .....I:.. ... :.::i:::::::::::::::.:.::.;:.:.::::... . .:::::::::.::::::::: -.-:::: - I :. . :... ...
:-: .. - : . .... .:.... I.........:....:.::::::-::::::::::::::;;:::::::::::::--:::::::: . .... .: ::::.,: ... :::::::::.:, .. -.::::::.:p:p -: -.::::::: -.-:.:::.:
--I. ''I'll-, . ............................................ . .......... ... .. ... 4.. -:-.:... .......... -.. ::::.: . .. .... ::I
-......:.:..:.:: ........... ..:::::: ..::::::-::--: ---- ::.:.:.:,.. . .. .....I...................... .I........ I. ..
.,, ,'' . .- :::::::::::::::: .:..-
...,"'',.. . . . . . ........ ............. .. - :.:: - """ -::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::!
...... ..:
:, ,
w: :.: :: ::: .. .::
.- :wA--Ow.: ... I W.39: PART.- q.M........
::: :::-.1. ...M
.:..- ..............:w.... qt-----`:::::iw:PWw ;:;:M ... R.. ...
-- :.A w.--m::.-R.".:::W.m. Jw. ......u..... MI'llm.".1'....I.I.A: :: ::
...................-.................. ............ ::q::::::::::::::;:::: ....... ::::::::::::::::: .... -.::::m:wwwww::: ... . ............ . ..........I. ............................. ............ - ........... ;;;::::::::::.,: ...
--- ......... . ... .. . ............ :::..; .......... . ....... ::::::::::::qq. : ::d.::::,::- .. -:::::::::;;;::::i..:::::::.:::- --::-::::::::::: ... :: ............. ....
---- .............. .. . ......... :; .............. :..: . ...... 4M..
: p.-: ..
-: ,.. -.0 .... - F
qT :::w Mw- ,:%-,"' ,jw .. ..N...;:::.-
.. o. .. i: m M .. ...pp - PIA : . ::-V., Aw. ", ,.,M
,q ........... ::::::::ii - --::-:::- :w .: ........i... .:.. V.... ....... Mil ... .. .... ...... =m: ......I
aM "Ill, . ............ :::: "........ . . . . ........ . 1,0
..
,
..
;:6 i.a
:: :::::: .:i IWI Ott .1.1,11"A .......... .P... 44. W, ..P
.. ..... ................... .. ::::::::::::::qw:ww ............. -- --. .,..
........ .... :::..:;... . ............. ........................ :: ............... :: ..........:......... . . ....... :..:::::;;::: ......... :: ... -.,-...... .... . ..... .- -: .........I
"'' ,.. ..................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "
.:: .-ft:.... ................... 6:4 .......... I. I......... ..... . ..... .. ... .. ............... :::
.::::;::.... ... .:.!....
.::b q: :-. . ... m;::: :::
.....::: .....n-
46 'v...:M wim .- ...............:.... I.:iq :::
i::.=o .1-91-ligp, ..qt ...
I .... "... `- ............... :: ...................-. ......... ....... ...I..... ........... ......
:j ....O....... . :.. ...,W 
.. . .. ...... .... .::::::::..:..::-::::::::::::.:::::::::::: .................. ..........:.......:.........................-.. .... ..... I.. . ....-.-....: ........ :;:
:::::::..:::: ... :-::::::: :::::::w:::w:::::::::: :::::-:::.:i;;--'ll""I'l:11: ..... :::,:,:. ,:-:: ... :::::.:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. ::::::::.   --.. .. -::::::::.:: . .... ::
.... :::::.  .::::::::::::::::::;;::::;:::;::..'                                     :::::::::                              I      I.:                                                            -     ::i::i:::.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .... -  --::-::::::::.:::::::::::::
-..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. -...::::`::]:::, ..,iii:::: ", -: i::::::: ....... --
:: .:::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::.!::::::!::::.
:,;::!,:,:::::::::::::::::::::::;::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::,: :,: :::::::::::;::
--::::;;::::;;:::::::::: - .::::::::.::: .... .,---::%::.. .:::::::::-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::-:::i::::: ..-:... .....-.:..::ii .......
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::z .... ..-............  -. ... .. 1.
- :illlllll!!i!i.. ::!!1111:.. I..::::;::..:-::: . .. . .... .... .:::.:::::::-:::::::
-.:. -::::::::::::::;:::::::::::-::.:::::::::::: . i  --- .... .-.:::.:.. -::::::.:i...:-:::::::: .... ....................... --,::::::: . ......... - - ..'. -
--:::::::::;:::;;:.::::.::::: ,:,:::: -::::::::::::::::::m:::::.  :.: ...t'30.41 urs, - ...
... - --..--i- - -:::::::::: :::" ,;:::::::::::"::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::,:
I :.... ::::::::::::: ::..::: -. .. : ::::::.. . .. ......... I. .......... ::n . IRIC...:
-:::::::q :q.. .: . ::::. : :::: ::;-.. ....... .. : :: :-:::::!:::: . :..:  ::::: :: ... .:: :::.. W.. 1:
:  : :-..- .. ...... . ;ji!I:i:-. . ::.:.. : ::. . ........ ..... - . .. ....... ...:..:.. .. .13 .............a
:::::.::: !!..::...:. ::::..: I. I :..... .:::
:. :i.
. ..:*:: --cpq::Wq:q"q:sw
::.,.b04 41* ,:::::: - -, .. p:
jr.uo!wlcfm XR. : IPPUWi. .:w- :::R**::: -21. 2%
-.qq;qq;  --  ........ .........-::: . .. .. "... '' :,:::::
. ,............ -.... ....I. I.....
... :: . .,. -... . .. .. ... . .... ii:::: :: , - ii, : ,: , ,
. .I.11 I -. ."'" -,::::: , , i - "'.   -:.:u -'..... sp ... W:
-:I.
p uop$vw ft**-Wool'r -% oW pod 0,qj = .-:Y:.;..: ME %. ,: ......Pmp...:.:
::.                                                                                                       , ft                      v                                                                ..    I - .w. .. :                                                  q..                           :              :. .... .                                    ..'p"...                                     O" - -'-: :..... .: ::.. --.   - # v  - - is  q:r
......... i . .-.....  -.  -.. 4 ft4v '. _.J.""
...:.-iii:!i! ...  .....--': -.::;!:: ... . .... ::..:.- -::::-
,:, .1I,
:: q. ..... , &M . ....... i ": .... .. . .-,...
..u;lo :w ,,Pw W. .. A,
. In.m.
.. .
,-...-.- .... .. ....... ....
ftwox : ,._..
..AW:: :..---.:
.1;...... :M:oqpo:
41mjo UOM M-41.4onpralp. d "' ::."' ,"'-
..... . -..4...,J4 .. I-
..... -...:% . ---..:..I,:.P*MUO... X19T... I - ".
.. ........-...:.. - -. ......... :: ..... ..-
..... I:.I  - :I- -.- ll ....: ....-..-
.:..... ;.-. ... - --  - .--:....1
.I...... --..:::-  . .I  :--...
.. I.: ..:::. ..: .
- .I  -  p-::::iii: -.-  -I. .I-::: ....::.:: - -: 
.... ft......-. ....... .I .
..  -, , '"' "... ... '' :...-- ,::::::,:-
. ... .. ....... . ... ..
11 . -- W- -. ",
:-.,lu:
,
... : .::.:..:::: :.::::.:-.W:Vo,p4 pit"q..:::P:
- -
.. 4  ::::-                                                                                                               . I                             ... :...41pj                              .P.                    .           -,
..... I
, :,OW A...:. ...T"
.. .. I--.::::::.:.. .. :.)T-ug.. It ''
I  . ...... -.,.. i ,W:..: ... ...I.... O.'
- -,:...... .. -. .-  --. -I
:,:.... ::..... ..... .. ....
-M -;-&.Id "Li
... S:W g"q:---
PueT Jo FM4#dv:: , , ::. voqAos:Oqr .. :OOT:-p:, ,.P
.... ..-.. ........ .... .11.11, ...I.... I.,..,... ......: .. ........... . .... ..... P . i... .;.,. W..
..:;,;:;. : :: -.:::::::::::::::;.;:;;.;..;,:,.,,:.::: .. ....... .... 1-: . .... ...... I - . .........I............. :::::::..:: ......
 - :-:.:::::...: ............ ... : -::::::::: . :.. . ... -- :::::p%.:: ...I.... :... .. -:
... ... ..I.. ... .:.:.:::::::::.:::::::::::::;:::::::::.: .... ..I.....
-... ...:.;:.:;;;::::.:::::::::.....:::,;:.:::::::::.......L:..:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :....:...
. :;;.::::.::.. I.... .. L.I..
.- -:; .. ... ::.:::;;;;::;;!!::!:'! ........ .. .. .. ...L........ .... ... .. :. .::::':....... .1, ..:.!;::::::::::::::::::::;:::.::!::::::::::::::::::iI
.-.: :: ::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::;.:::::::.:::.::.::::.:::::::;;.:;;;,::...- ..1 ... :,.::,.,.. :.., ............. ::: .... ,.::..:.......,.:::!:.!::::::.: ... . ..:
-.:!::::::::::!:::w:::::::::.:::z -:::-:::::::::::::..:::::::::::: ... :.::::.: ... ::::::::w.www::w.:.. : :::::::I :.::..: -- ---- ................. ....I
..: i.. : .: ..... ....I.... .... :--... ;:-:&ww -::::::
. ..  . :- ..:::::.::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::z - --:::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::.:..:::...
,:::--.. -. - --...:.::::.::.: , ":.:.:-::::::: ..............
:::::::::::::::::::::.::: :::w::::::w::::::::::::% .. ::::::::-:::::z:::::::::::::.....,. .,
::::::;:::;::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: -..... .... .: ....... ... ... .. -::::: ... ...a.......::::::
... ...::::::::: - - .. : .:.!;iiii!!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijjjiiI.il,: M-WROF ... A...;.,.a:::::
::::::::::,:!ii:-. i.:  -  .. b..:..::::.:::::.!:: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::: - ::::::: ........... :z:::::::::::::::::::::-: m::..:... ::=:::::.:::
.: :::::::::.::::..:p:.:.-:: ... ::::..: : :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;;;;;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;;:: ............. ::::::::;:::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::..:p --:.; ...... .... :::::::::::::::: ....... ........  ..... .. ................... .. :::::
:. ..!.. ......................-......... ........................... ... .. I.. ::::.: .. .... .. ...............I. . .... ..-
. Pun; JO: 9.T.i.;-w ::: .. . ............ .:.. ..: ... .. .. ...
.x "" -- -. O::: . .... M.. .... .. . .A: i: . ..... M..
.0---:::: ::; ::: ::: ::: :: . illm.lVii-M ::
I... ... .. .. ... :::.. ::: ...U.,., ...
.... . . ..........
.. .. ....1-::::r:::::,:
... .0 ....v... ......'..'..'.'...Id
....
:%,...R.:: -M" ..
.... :::: ::: ....-:::
w..-..:..:...- ... !:!:::!-- ...... ........
:. . ...EiN."diiiiuVlW.o.,- I ... . ...1...,
.:::::: ....-.......:::: ::: ::::::
... :: .... %:::::::: .................a.......... ::- 'i:.....- =:::::::::
t,m .. . ... --:::::::::::::: ::ii z:::::;;;:::;:::::::::-:-:: .............................................. .&.:w.m:ww:w::::: ... -:::z::::::::::::;:::::::::::::: :: -...,.
... 149,t ..F..:.:,`, ,... .: ..,.-- .I.-:. ... .
I. ..::: ...a:: :: :.:S.I:: . ...:.
. -..:.... ..::* .. ::!.. ::wm-wp M: ....
.1411..:1.11,.'Wivd. ..... ;:::;-: . ..:.....
... , -. -:-::.
M... . ... .. T.. "Wlll lap-,w: ..... . ..i::,UK(..
,::::::::::: .....- ... .. ... ... M- ... P..n
.. ...R1
. .... ....... ;.---- ...... :%:::4:.:::: ... ::z ::::--:: ....... :: .........4..... -:: ........ ---.- .......................... :: ........... ::im:: :..:,:::.-- :.
..  ::::::
.:;.:.;::;.-.:::::::::::::::::: f::::,iiii;!:::":::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::,::,:,:,:,::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::... I..:::::: -::: ... :::::
:--:::::;::::: - . 1: 1.11, p ..... ..--  .... ::::: iiiiiiiNi:i!fT:: ............... :: .......... --.-... .. ...
---- -:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::.: ::::::.... -:::::::
-::::::-. -I I. ...... I. . . . ::::: :: -.::-::::::::::-::::.:- -::::-:::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::i::::::- ::::::: ....,.: ......
. -- -  -. ... .:.:.:::::::::::::: ::.  ...:-.:: ...... I.. ...::.::::::::::::::-:::::::.  :::: :::::::::::::::z::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::z ... ::::::::::: -.:  .:.. :::::- ... I. ----- - -::::: . ..:..I::%:.-: ..::::: . .-- ;;:
  :  - .:  -... ::.:.. ::. .." 1. .:..:..::.l::: ..... ::.,: ... - .::::::::i.:::.:!::::. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::z :::- :- .... ........ .... ........
- :: :-!:::  -. -'..' -.--.--- ..... ... :: ...:: ... ,:..::. : 1....:.:..:.4.1.::.:::::::::::::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:,"', 11  -,-----,-
-----..... . :::::::::::: I.. I .: . :..-::::::: --::::: . .. ..... ...... --.-.:l:;:.: ::::: !w : : :.:.
: -    , - :::::::  -.: .- : .....44
.::::::: ::   :. .... ::.:..: I..- ,:::::::::::::::::::::::::z ::- :: I I-
.:-:.::::::: - -  ... ::..:.::.:. ... .. .I.... .. ::::z::::::::::::::::::::::::.:.  :.:::.-- .  
: :: - .1 ..-I ..... ---I- ......... .----...... :..:: . ": ... ::: ..............
;:::-::`::`:::::: ... ... ........ I. ...I:::::,....S. . - .... ::--::.::::I- -- . , . .. -.-
-, H::jo p........... Isqns:::: .--,
::: : M... - - oV URT :F ..Mw :  W. P;::::::: ...-.........
: QRMR-l 9%; ..,Ib ,, -
QAq3DjF;:: ;
--- -dia66' :::: -iU64:
. -- ::: - -... I.: .1.01.;:WS;m ......... i.... A .:-;::;:
. ...........:.. .... 1-1.11. ,. ...--- ............
.- . . .. .....I........ I I... -  -..... :.:::::: ... - -.-- ...-... ....
... :::: ,.-.-:,i!:i!i:..i:i:,:-, - - lw  l5..::::.:$.O.:.::: .M.::-:::!;:-:::::::l:::.. :............ .... -- .-   -.. .... :.
;il 1. -- ...... .. . ...........
: t" 1: to san-yovajo.,is .....
m w? .:::4.. ... ..:....
.. qim .... :lm ;OTR--j .:...U :::OP
Immol. mv,xx".qlm .3.D.
...': :F .J.
..... -..... ..q i fm :: : ..
... 9... aii ..:qU.
:.... .. - - . ,:::::..j
. I....p pp.mv,,.q
: .- ..,
..... .. :. - -- ... :.:.! ....
..:.:::..:..::::::::::: -...-I:::: 1.I- - -- ... .....  -... - ..--
-:,- -- - : -:,  ...--- .. ....:
:.... ,... ..  :: ---:::: --...-  -  -:.: -:::::::ii.:: ... - . .... , :--: .. -
............ q.......I. .: ...... 7.:.:7.--.. ..... ... I I.: 1:1::,.  I I:  ,.,...- ..... -- - I.::. - -  . ..... .  --...- - ... .... . .... --:--.--- ...  -....-
... .. .. .... .............'..I.. .......I....I........ -:::: .... -:-.-..::p..:..w ......... q..q...::-:.::.::: ...:... .. .. . .:.:::::: .... -, ..:.:::::::: ...  - :-:. 1: ... . ..:
I. ...  - - - .. .. .... ::.:::: p:.:p.F....F.... :-  l ... ::.:.::..:...  - ---: --::-::::.:.:.: ,..... - i,-w:::.:.....- .........:..::--: ........:..... :: :::,.::::::
---I-: -:''..- :;- - - : :  :::-p.:fl:---.:.: -: ......
---: - .. .:-,:::.:::::.:.:i:.-. ... .... ......... .-.-.--...- -. ... ..... :::..  :, -  . .  I. . .... :.:- ... -:....::-::::::.:::.:::
.:-: ...... .... ... ...... ...... -:.:: : ., ,
A --..... .. - ---
.....I............. :::-:::!::::-:I.q
 .,=10:-.....::::
.... . .. . .: 4: Om: P'Muo PIM Mil  -  j".  M -: . .....: *M-
.: . . .... ... .: .::::-::.:-:- ..: ,,..:.woq.-n.. jxpp ftp
::: ... :::: i........... .. .................. ........ ......-... ... I. ..."Id .-''
. ...  .-..... :: ... :- p
-.... 1 .......I....... . .. ...., . :.......:...... .. 
.. .:, ::. p: :.: -!-:-::..: :: .. . ... ... ... .... ..... ,: - - .. ...... I....I... .. .. pp:7.."! i!-:-::::::::::::;:
                                                                              -                       -                                                                                      :         ...             :                 .  ..         ....               I..                                                                                                                   ..     . 1.  .   ....,..:.::     - .  :::!:  !:-..     ..
-1 -il::-i:::: :::. ...::: ..-  -..... ::.:-::::: .. -
..... . --- ........
-, ;-- : ij i::::jj!j!ijiji , ,:II.-I. ::i-i:-:. -. .. - 1: .::::.::::::: ... ...
- - :1. .: ::::,:":::: :-:I.: ::: i-p,..  ... :.- :-!.--:!:::.:.. ... i.
..... ;::;:.::..::::.:.::::.::.:.:::. ,.,: .. ."', ....:..... I 1.
-::::::;:;. p::;f:: f:ff%-- - - -  ... 11.11,111,1111, ... :": ....
...--.... -.1 - - .  : -:: ....... .  .,..:----,--:-;. :::.: ... :!:::: . ...: I q 11 1-11-1::: ::::
-........I... -.- - -.1 ... ---- lft.-- ............. .. ..... -......
::: .. ::i.::. ..... .: -Ixtotmq:,
- .::-::::: ... :::-... El. OT4
..::::..iiilili:!i!!:::: ... .!. .... ::::::.::.:......I--:-:::,::--- : -:,::::l. T"I.
... ... :...: II - --.:::-:-:: :: - :- -:::.:: I :. ......................... ..
....... --.-:..::.`..:- . ...... ..... . ..... .. :::-::::::::: ... :::::::::::::::...::
:::...:i:.:: ... .ii:::i::ii:ii:iii:i.::..:. --.:::
,no---, I ..-: ... . .... :- ... .:....
::OIR:-S uodn lm .: .: . . .... ..... : 1,.-...I
... ....... ' -:: .. .. ".. :..:.:::::::::,:: ... -:-::::::::::.:.:..:
.: T, ,:.xwi::::--Hq saoums:: .. :iDMUOTSS!WF"4-::
.. ................. ..sx



37
E. Supervision, Implementation and Technical Assistance
143.  Supervision. Close monitoring of the implementation of the structural reform program supported
by SAL3 is essential in view of the broad range of the program and the importance of the reforms
envisaged by the Government. To achieve this, the functions and responsibilities of the current
Government-Bank-IMF "Structural Working Group" (SWG) will be strengthened. As the main vehicle for
monitoring and for raising implementation problems that need addressing, and it will meet at least monthly
following loan effectiveness. Moreover, the Government team on the SWG will prepare and circulate to the
Bank and Fund, three business days prior to each SWG meeting, a draft comprehensive monthly report on
the implementation of the program. After review in the SWG, an updated report will be sent to the
Govermment, with a copy to the Bank and the Fund, for information/action. Such reports will pay due
attention to implementation of the agreed measures.
144.  Technical assistance for policy implementation under the SAL program continues to be needed and
is available in several sectors. Support for preparation of the overall program, with a focus on fiscal
management, is being supported by a Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant from the
Japanese Government. TA for power sector reform is being supported by the Bank through the Portfolio
Development Loan and the Electricity Support Reform Project. TA for natural gas reform is being
provided through the Energy Efficiency Project. TA for privatization is being provided through the
Privatization Implementation Assistance Loan and a PHRD grant from the Japanese Government. TA for
legislative reform is being provided through the Legal Reform Project. If additional technical assistance is
needed, additional resources will be sought.
F. Financial Arrangements
145.  Loan Amount and Borrower. The proposed SAL3 of US$1.5 billion, in the form of a single
currency, US dollar loan would be made to the Russian Federation, represented by the Ministry of Finance.
Disbursements under the proposed SAL3 will be made to an account ('Deposit Account') of the Ministry
of Finance established at the Central Bank of Russia for this purpose. The loan will have a term of seven
years, including three years of grace, and a standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans.
146.  Loan Management. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan manager designated
by the Ministry of Finance. The loan manager will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal
applications, maintaining the Deposit Account and arranging for its timely audit (if requested by the Bank),
and monitoring overall loan implementation. The loan manager will also be responsible for coordinating the
preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the Implementation Completion Report and for writing those
sections relating to loan administration.
147.  Disbursements. Upon notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness, the proceeds of the loan will
be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this
account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-
member countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), the Bank will require the
Borrower to either: (a) retum that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the
amount directly to the Bank (in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the
loan). In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Sinplification of Disbursement Rules under
Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be linked
to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requiremnents.



38
148. Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing. Although routine audits of the Deposit Account will not
be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time.
149.  Closing Date. The expected closing date of the proposed loan will be December 31, 1999.
G. Poverty Implications
150.  The operation is being proposed in the context of the Bank's overall strategy in Russia for poverty
reduction through economic growth and to cushion the impact of the economic transition on vulnerable
groups. The main focus of the proposed SAL3 is on the key steps needed to create an enabling
environment for private sector development, essential for a sustained increase in incomes. Moreover, the
increase in economic efficiency arising from more efficient infrastructure monopoly pricing and the further
consolidation of fiscal stabilization and reduction in inflation resulting from the Government's tax and
budget management reforms will also help reduce poverty. To support more direct efforts to reduce poverty
in Russia the Bank has carried out a poverty assessment and is working with the Government to follow up
in a wide number of areas, including child allowances, housing allowances for poor households,
unemployment insurance, pension reform, and the overall targeting of health, education, and other public
services to improve coverage of poor groups. The primary lending vehicles at present for conducting the
overall dialogue with the Govemment on poverty reduction are the SPAL (Social Protection Adjustment
Loan) and SPIL (Social Protection Implementation Loan) operations.
H. Environmental Impact
151.  Each of the components of the proposed SAL3 has potentially positive environmental effects. The
efficiency enhancing reform of monopolies in the energy and infrastructure sectors, including improved
pricing methods and collection mechanisms, along with the phasing out of cross-subsidies among consumer
groups, offers an opportunity for substantial environmental impact, particularly with regard to the
reduction of air pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions. The restructuring of existing firms and industries
through private sector development and privatization, as well as from competition from international trade,
could foster environmental gains associated with improved management and efficiency. Enhanced fiscal
management and the associated improvements m tax collection and budget administration may over time
lead to an increase in funds available for public expenditures, which include wastewater treatment, the
protection of forests and natural reserves, and other environmental costs. Additionally, a higher rate of tax
collection could include an increase in the actual payment of pollution charges placed on firms. Lastly,
banking reforms will facilitate the availability of credit needed for investments in energy efficient
technologies and in environmental sciences.
PART V: RECOMMENDATION
152.  I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
Attachments



Attachment I
Page 1 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual                  Estimate           Projected
Indicator                 1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture'                            7.6      6.1       6.9      7.0       7.5
industr                                40.5     41.2      39.3     37.7      34.0
Services'                              46.4     49.7      47.1     49.2      51.9
Total Consumption                        69.1     69.7      73.2     73.3      75.5     78.3      77.3     76.8
Gross domestic fixed                    20.4      21.8     20.0      20.0      19.3     18.0      19.0     19.9
investment
Government investment                    ..      6.1       5.2      4.5       4.3       4.4      4.5       4.6
Private investment                       ..    19.4       18.0     18.2      17.5      15.6     16.5      17.3
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFSb                          35.5      27.7     25.6      24.1      22.7     20.6      20.7     20.5
Imports (GNFS)                          31.6      22.9     22.1      20.1      20.0     19.0      19.0     19.2
Gross domestic savings                  30.9      30.3     26.8      26.7     24.5      21.7      22.7     23.2
Gross national savingse                 28.5      28.7     25.1      24.9     22.5      19.0      19.1     19.6
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product               183,780  277,025  357,348  429,278  449,851  456,577  475,439  503,903
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product per             2,770    2,330    2,240    2,400    2,740    3,000    3,110    3,310
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real anmual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1996
prices)
Gross domestic product at            -8.7%   -12.6%      4.1%     -3.5%     0.8%     -1.0%     1.0%      3.0%o
market prices
Gross Domestic hicome               -10.1%   -12.6%     4.4%    -3.3%       1.0%    -3.0%      0.6%      2.6%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at            -8.6%   -12.5%    -4.0%      -3.2%     1.1%    -0.8%      1.1%      3.6%
market prices
Total consumption                     8.1%    -3.0%    -0.3%       3.1%     4.7Yo    -2.0%    -0.8%      2.4%
Private consumption                   7.3%     13.2%    -0.5%     11.6%     4.7Yo    -2.9%     -1.5%     2.3%
(Continued)
7/249 10:24 AM



Attachment 1
Page 2 of 7
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate        Projected
Indicator            1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b               65244  76667  91610 103459 102196  94012  98441  103177
Merchandise FOB             58422  67716  81552  90513  88676  83374  87147  91153
Imports (GNFS)b               58110  63448  78885  86216  90065  86589  90505  96989
Merchandise FOB             44219  48005  60084  67557  71350  69354  72577  78042
Resource balance               7134   13219  12725  17243   12131   7423   7935   6188
Net current transfers                    -59     108     167    138      193    206    220
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance        5477   9576   6155   8776   2273  -4602  -8982  -11894
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct       386    637   2017   2478   6241    3300   4300   5300
investment
Long-term loans (net)         -10780  -12904  -10479  -2434  -3947   8490   2030  -5116
Other capital (net, including  8317   -1378   7236  -13681  -3468  -4040   4571   19643
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd            -3400   4069  -4929   4861   -1098   -3148  -1919  -7933
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of          3.9%    4.8%    3.6%    4.0%    2.7%    1.6%    1.7%    1.2%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1996 prices)
Merchandise exports               ..      ..      ..      ..  5.1%    2.5%    3.0%    3.5%
(FOB)
Primary                          ..      ..      ..      ..  4.5%    2.5%    3.0%    3.5%
Manufactures                      ..     ..      ..      ..  4.8%    2.5%    3.0%    3.5%
Merchandise imports               ..      ..      ..      ..  12.0%   -1.5%    1.5%    4.5%
(CIF)
(Continued)
7/24198 10:24 AM



Attachment 1
Page 3 of 7
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate        Projected
Indicator             1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)e
Current revenues                38.6    36.7    32.7    29.5    30.6    27.2    29.0   30.3
Current expenditures            42.6    40.7    33.2    33.3    33.9    28.7    28.9    28.7
Current account surplus(+)       -4.1    -4.1    -0.5    -3.8    -3.3    -1.5     0.0     1.6
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure              4.8     7.4      6.0     5.2     5.4     5.0     5.1     5.2
Foreign financing                 3.2     1.3    2.1      2.7     2.0     5.1    -0.3    -2.3
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market       23.9    21.2    16.9    16.7    17.8   21.3    23.3    26.6
prices)
Growth ofM2(%)                 286.6  216.5   112.6    33.1    26.1    27.7    17.6   23.4
Private sector credit growth /     ..      ..      ..      ..      ..   77.0    83.4    79.0
total credit growth (/0)
Price indices ( 1996 =100)
Merchandise export price           ..      ..      ..  100.0    93.2    85.6    86.9    87.8
index
Merchandise import price           ..      ..      ..  100.0   94.9    93.0    95.9    98.7
index
Merchandise terms of trade         ..      ..      ..  100.0   98.3    92.0    90.6    89.0
index
Real exchange rate              35.9   59.7    74.4   100.0    98.7    98.7    98.7   98.7
(US$/LCU)f
Consumer price index          895.3%  303.2%  188.7%   47.5%   14.8%    7.0%    6.0%    6.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                  888.1%  307.3%  178.4%   39.9%   17.3%    7.8%    6.3%    5.2%
(% growth rate)
a. Sectoral GDPs are measured at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
c. Data refer to general government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
7124S 6-41 PM



Attachment 1
Page 4 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                Estimate         Projected
Indicator                           1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Total debt outstanding and        112940  121921  120461  124786  123497  151750  162046  166174
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)8
Net disbursements (US$m)f           4334    1089    4619    6082    8292   29752    8872    3018
Total debt service (TDS)            2333    3674    6303    7168    6353    8806   17542   19394
(US$m)8d
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                          171.7   157.3   129.7   119.2   119.0   159.9   161.5   158.2
TDO/GDP                            61.5    44.0    33.7    29.1    27.5    33.2    34.1    33.0
TDS/XGS'                            3.5      4.7     6.8      6.8      6.1      9.3    17.5    18.5
IBRD exposure indicators
IBRD DS/public DS (%)d              0.5      1.0      0.9     1.7      2.7      6.0     4.8      7.0
PreferredcreditorDS/public         11.5    13.7    13.6    18.8    23.9    26.5    41.9    43.2
DS (%) d
IBRD DSIXGS (%)                     0.0      0.0     0.1      0.1      0.2      0.6     0.8      1.3
IBRD TDO (US$m)                    367      684    1524    2509    5266    7539   11627   12949
Share of IBRD portfolio (%/o)       0.4      0.6      1.4     2.3      4.9     6.2      9.2    10.1
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the 1MF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Debt service paid (after rescheduling).
e. Amortization paid (after rescheduling).
q:\R%US%1998\SAL3kRuScM13.Xds B77125198 3:53 PM



Attachment 1
Page 5 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 3: External Financing
(US$ millions at current prices)
Estimated                            Projection
1997         1998         1999         2000
Sources                                        49,079        54,663       35,905       33,389
Non-interest current account balance          13,869         3,896        4,513        1,887
Disbursement                                   10,429       32,441       14,344        9,741
IMF                                           2,020        13,800        2,100            0
Other medium- and long term                   7,300        17,461       10,949        8,330
of wihicl IBRD                               2,691        2,422        4,370        1,811
Net short-term                                1,109         1,180        1,295        1,412
Private investment                             17,741        8,754        7,268        8,320
Direct foreign investment                    6,241        3,300         4,300        5,300
Portfolio investments (net)                 11,500        5,454         2,968        3,020
Debt reliefa                                   7,836         9,573        9,780       13,441
Uses                                           49,079        54,663       35,905       33,389
Debt service due                               19,081       18,377       27,322       32,835
of which IBRD                                 172          528          845         1,348
Repayments (including IMF)                    8,281         9,880       13,826       19,054
Interest payments                            10,800        8,497        13,495       13,780
Increase in gross reserves                     2,584        16,621         -689        2,524
Other capital flows                           27,414        19,664        9,273       -1,970
a. The debt relief includes the debt rescheduling of USSR external liabilities to Paris Club and London
Club creditors and similar treatment for non-Paris-Club official and supplier creditors.
7/24/98 11:25 AM



Attachment 1
Page 6 of 7
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance
Europe & Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Russian   Central middle-
Federation     Asia  income       Development dlamond
Populabon mid-1996 (millions)                       147.7      479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$, Alas meo)                 2,400     2,180    1.750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS, atAfas conversion tactoa)  354.6      1,043    1.967
Average annual growth, 1990-6
Populabon (%)                                        4,1       0.3      1.4
Laborforce (% Russia: 1992-96)                       -1.1      0.5      1.8      GNP                             Gros
Most recent easmate (latest yravailable since 1989)                              per           p\eroey
capita                      OnWolInOmtt
Poverty' headcount index (t opopulaSion)              25
Urban populaton (% of o apopulation)                  73        8S       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      66        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live birhs)               17        26       41                Access to safe vater
Child malnutriton (% of chidren under 5)               3
Access to safe water (% odpopulalion)                                    78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  0.2
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ol'school-agepopulation)    108        97      104          -     Russian Federaton
Male                                               108        97      105          -    Lower-mirnddfeincome goup
Female                                             107        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1995    1996
GDP (billions USS)                            ..      ..    357.3   429.3        Economic ratloe
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 ..               23.2    22.7
Exports of goods and seMces/GDP               ..               25.6    24.1               Openness of economy
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    ..               26.8    26.7
Gross national savingqlGDP                    ..               25.1    24.9
Current account balance/GDP                   ..      ..        1.8     2.2     Sai--4                      Investmnnt
Interest payments paid/GDP                    ..      ..       0.8      0.9     Savings
Total external debt/GDP                       ..      ..      33.7    29.1                        .
Total debt service paid/exports              ..       ..        6.8     6.8
Present value of debVGDP                      ..      ..        ..    20.8                     Indebtedness
Present value of debtexports                 ..       ..        ..    91.3
197546  19f6-96    1995       1996  199746            -     Russian FederatSon
(average annual g-owth)
GDP                                  ..       ..    -4.1       -3.5     3.4                 Lowwr-mridd-income group
GNP per capita                       ..      ..    -4.4        -3.5     3.3
Exports of goods and services        ..      ..      7.0       2.3      4.2
STRUCTURE dfthe ECONOMY
1976    1985      19S5   1996
(Vs of GDP)                                                                      Growth rates or output end Investment%
Agriculture                                   ..      ..        7.4      7.3     la
Industry                                                                            ....2142.1  33.1  a
Manufacturing                               ..       ..        ..       ..     - 
Services                                     ..       ..       50.5    53.6    *20
Private consumption                           ..      ..       59.0    61.8             cI   as   a3   ar   s    i
General government consumpton                 ..      ..       14.1     11.5                - G01   ---DP
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..      22.1     20.1
197S45  1986-96      1998    1996
(averp annualgrowth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   ..      ..       -8.0    -7.0      is
Industry                                      ..      ..       4.5      4.0     ie ;
Manufacturing                                ..      ..        ..       ..      -.
Servicest'                                    ..      ..    -10.0    -8.5         ef
Private consumption                           ..      ..       4.9      11.3    -ie      n
General government consumption                ..      ..        0.1    -27.3    .1.
Gross domestic investment                     ..      ..    -12.0   -21.1           ,
lmports of goods andsuvkes                    ..      ..        9.8     0.2                    Excen     e 
Gross national product                        ..      ..       4.S    -3.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
a. Sectoral GOP are stimated at factor cost
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wiN
be incomplte.



Attachment 1
Page 7 of 7
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance (Continued)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1995    1996
Domestic pikes                                                                    Inon (%)
(% change)                                                                       2.1W
Consumer prices                                                188.7    47.5       e
Implicit GDP deflator                                          178.7    39.9     1.e
Oov nmentfnnce e  
% of GOP)                                                                           eT
Current revenue                                                 32.7    29.5              $1   n2   p            u4    u #
Current budget balance                                          -0.5    -3.7                   GDPdd    _   CPI
Overall surplus/deWficit                                        -5.6    -847
TRADE
TRADE                           ~~~~~~1976  19S5    1995     1906
(milions SS)a Expod nd Impodt leveha (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                           81,552   90,513
Crude oil                                                   12,741   15,724      1050,
Natural gas                                                 13,391   15.487                               n
Machinery, equipment, vehicles                               6,240    8,200       eNO +      r-             r     iii
Total imports (ci)                                            64,198   70,021      40.e _    I       L       l
Food                                         .         ..   13,041   11,500       *C41       I       11     li II
Fuelandenergy                                                1,584    1,848          ,  -L   .        - - .1  L  j 4L- - J
Machinery, equipment, vehicles                              15,700   14,400              n2   53   94    U       #
Export price index (1987-100)
Import price index (1987-100)                                                                   E       ntm
Terms of trade (1987-100)                     ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP rafto (%
Exports of goods and service                                  91,610  103.459
Imports of goods and sevices                                  78,885   86,216    4J
Resource balance                                              12,725   17,243
Net Income                                                    -6,331    4,171
Net current transfer.                                           108      167     2._
Current account balance,                                                         la
before ofricial capital transfers                            6,502    9,239
Financing items (na}                                          .-1,573  -14,100         9      t3    914    14   9#
Changes in net reserves                                       -4,929    4,81
Memo:
Reserves including gold at end of year (mu. USt)              17,207   15,324
Conversion rate, average (lowabtS$)                            4,562    5,126
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbured                          120,461  125,000     CompositIon of toW debt, 19S (mill US$)
IBRD                                                         1,524    2,509                  0      A    C
IDA                                                             0        0                   400o  25   1241#
Total debt service paid                                        6,303    7,168                                    253
IFRO                                                           67      121           F
IDA                                          ,                  0        0         34M
Composrition of net resource fnows
Capital transfem                                             -347     -463
Official creditor                                              98    2,029
Private creditor                                         . -1,043      968
Foreign direct investment                                   2,017    2,478
Portfolio equity                                            .1,434    8,400                                    E
World Bank program
CommitmentS                                                  1,684    1,923     A-18RD                      E- Bid"
Disbursements                                                 824    1,097      B-IDA    D-OlhernsAhtersI   F-P tvde
Prinipal repaymentS                                            0        0      C-IMF                       C-Shem
Netilows                                                      824    1,097
Intst payments                                                 57      121
Nettransfers                                                  767      976
Devlopment Eonomics and Rusa Country Teem                 p:lRusslaPREMnmacrltcplivtrtag\FY9MB u24ag.as            740M
Note Esmate for the fowrr Soviet republics are su  bj   mo n the uul rnge of unceran.



Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russian Federation
EBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                     disbursements a'    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit     Year                Borrovier                    Purpose
No.                                                                           IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj            Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 10
Active Loans
RU-PE-8809    IBRD 36233  1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB.                   10.00        0.00             0.00          6.98    199.20       15.45       U              S
RU-PE-8809    IBRD 36232  1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB.                  170.00        0.00             0.00          5.24    199.20       15.45       U              S
RU-PE-8809    IBRD 36231  1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB.                  158.00        0.00            41.60            .65    199.20      15.45       U              S
RU-PE-8809    IBRD 36230  1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB.                  272.00        0.00           142.15          2.58    199.20       15.45       U              S
RU-PE-8810    IBRD 35460  1993  GOVT OF RUSSIA                       PRIVATIZATION                90.00        0.00             0.00         14.22      14.22      14.22        S             S
RU-PE-8822    IBRD 35320  1993  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 EMPLOYMENT SERV. a           70.00        0.00            10.00         26.64      36.63       5.76        S             S
SOCIAL PROT
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 37682  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II                90.40        0.00             0.00          2.82    206.86    202.14         S              S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 37681  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II                51.10        0.00             4.72          4.87    206.86    202.14          S             S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 37680  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II                24.70        0.00             0.00          4.91    206.86    202.14          s             S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 3768C  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II                99.60        0.00             0.00         26.57    206.86    202.14         S              S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 3768B  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II               108.90        0.00             0.00         60.44    206.86    202.14          S             S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 3768A  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II               125.30        0.00             0.00        102.54    206.86    202.14         S              5
RU-PE-8839    IBRID 3763A  1994  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                     ENTERPRISE SUPPORT          196.00        0.00             0.00        175.92    139.92        0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8811    IBRD 37570  1994  REP.OF RUSSIAN FED.                  AGRIC. REFORM IMPL.         240.00        0.00            80.00        122.02    182.02       50.15        U             U
RU-PE-34579   IBRD 37560  1994  REP OF RUSSIAN FED                   LAND REFORM IMPL. SU         80.00        0.00             0.00         61.50      51.50       0.00        S             S
RU-PE-8828    IBRD 3734A  1994  MOF                                  FINANCIAL INSTITUTIO        187.62        0.00             0.00        140.91    140.93       48.73       S              S
RU-PE-8808    IBRD 37060  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   HIGHWAY REHAB & MAIN        300.00        0.00             0.00         49.40       3.43       0.00        S             S
RU-PE-8806    IBRD 38850  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   URBAN TRANSPORT             329.00        0.00             0.00        108.90      73.91       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8803    IBRD 38760  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   RUSSIA ENERGY EFFICY        106.50        0.00            36.50         68.31      93.21      24.31        U             S
RU-PE-40409   IBRD 38726  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   EMERG. OIL SPILL MIT         29.60        0.00             0.00         21.13      21.12       0.00        5             s
RU-PE-38572   IBRD 38530  1995  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      TAX ADMINISTRATION           16.80        0.00             0.00         11.03      11.05       7.55        S             S
RU-PE-8827    IBRD 3850A  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   HOUSING                     363.72        0.00             0.00        264.19    167.06        0.00        S             S
RU-PE-8823    IBRD 38440  1995  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMEN         40.00        0.00             0.00         31.59      31.57      12.81        S             S
RU-PE-8826    IBRD 38240  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   MANAGEMENT AND FINAN         40.00        0.00             0.00         14.01       8.31       0.00        S             S
RU-PE-8821    IBRD 38060  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME        110.00        0.00             0.00         74.20       1.69       0.00       S              U
RU-PE-45622   IBRD 40590  1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   COAL IAP                     25.00        0.00             0.00         20.63       6.13       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8831    IBRD 40350  1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      LEGAL REFORM PROJECT         58.00        0.00             0.00         53.37      17.86       0.00       5              S
RU-PE-38571   IBRD 40330  1996  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 MEDICAL EQUIPMENT           270.00        0.00             0.00        137.48      -2.53       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-42622   IBRD 40290  1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIAN FEDERATI            CAPITAL MARKET DEV.          89.00        0.00             0.00         84.70      17.70       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-36973   IBRD 40120  1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   ENTP.HOUSING DIVESTI        300.00        0.00             0.00        291.62      18.62       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-35761   IBRD 40090  1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      COMMUNITY SOCIAL INF        200.00        0.00             0.00        190.02      19.53       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-35764   IBRD 39900  1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   BRIDGE REHABILITATIO        350.00        0.00             0.00        323.78      99.78       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8837    IBRD 39610  1996  GOVT OF RUSSIA                       STANDARDS DEVELOP.           24.00        0.00             0.00         19.94      10.45       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-38573   IBRD 42030  1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   SOC. PROTECT. ADJ.          800.00        0.00             0.00        250.00    250.00        0.00        S             S
RU-PE-44200   IBRD 41850  1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   BUREAU OF ECON.POLIC         22.60        0.00             0.00         19.56      -2.24       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-46448   IBRD 41840  1997  MINISTRY OF FINANCE                  ENTERPRISE RES.SERVS         85.00        0.00             0.00         85.00       1.90       0.00       S             U
RU-PE-8825    IBRD 41830  1997  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      EDUCATION INNOVATION         71.00        0.00             0.00         69.62         .12      0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8B14    IBRD 41820  1997  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 HEALTH REFORM PILOT          66.00        0.00             0.00         64.50       3.80       0.00        S             S
RU-PE-50891   IBRD 41810  1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   ELECTR. SECTOR REFOR         40.00        0.00             0.00         40.00      10.50       0.00       U              U
RU-PE-42720   IBRD 41440  1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   ST. PETERSBURG REHAB         31.00        0.00             0.00         29.27       3.48       0.00       HS             S
RU-PE-50486   IBRD 42620  1998  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   COAL SECAL II               800.00        0.00             0.00        400.00       0.00       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-46496   IBRD 42340  1998  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 SOC. PROTECT. IMPL.          28.60        0.00             0.00         28.60       3.50       0.00       S              s
Total                                       '                                                  6,569.44        0.00           314.97      3,509.66  3,473.13  1,438.17
Genaate by the Opemftions Informaton System (O0S)                                                                                                                                   24 Jul 98



Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              2,744.81            3,222.05           5,966.86
of which has been repaid:                  2.99              29.30               32.29
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              6,251.47            3,192.75           9,444.22
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :            3,509.66                0.00           3,509.66
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Genmted by the Opeadtous Infomation System (01)                                                                                                                               24 Jul 98



Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
Russian Federation
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Jun-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1993                 Polar Lights           18.93    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.93    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                 Vasyugan                1.88    0.00    1.50    0.00    1.88    0.00    1.50    0.00
1994                 Framlington Fund        0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
1994                 Russia Registry         0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1994                 RTDC                   0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1995                 A.O. Volga             26.77   11.00    0.00   34.87   26.77   11.00    0.00   34.87
1995                 Depsona Z.A.O.          5.30    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1995                 First NIS Fund          0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Russ Tech Fnd           0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 SCF                     0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00
1996                 Alpha Cement           0.00   13.49    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.49    0.00    0.00
1996                 Pioneer First          0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 UNEXIM Bank            15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                 Aminex RUS             17.00    5.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.49    0.00    0.00
1997                 PBCM                   25.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   18.75    0.00    0.00   11.25
1997                 PLM Eastern Hold       0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1998                 Alfa Cement             0.00    2.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                 Borsteklo               0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1998                 Mosenergo              20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                 Toribank                0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 129.88  108.85    1.50   49.87   73.83  105.75    1.50   46.12
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Kauitv  Quasi  Partic
1996                 ALPHA CEMENT           20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                 DEPOSITORY CLEAR         .50    .05    0.00    0.00
1997                 DEPSONA B LOAN         0.00    0.00    0.00    5.20
1998                 DREVO                  0.00    .90    0.00    0.00
1998                 ELCOTEQ                 0.00    .10    0.00    0.00
1998                 GARANTI MOSCOW          5.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1997                 INTL. BOTrLERS          0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1998                 PAKENSO                 6.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1997                 POKROVSKIY MINE    16.00    0.00    0.00   32.30
1998                 RAMSTORE               36.00    0.00    0.00   48.00
1997                 RUSSIAN IT FUND         0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1998                 SEVERSTAL POWER    25.00    0.00    0.00   67.00
1997                 ZOLOTO MINING           0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       108.50   29.55    0.00  152.50
Genemsted by the Operations Infonmation System (OIS) on 07/24/98



Attachment 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare:                   5 months
(b) Prepared by:                             Government with the assistance of [BRD
staff and consultants
(c) Preparation and appraisal missions:      February/April 1998; June/July 1998
(d) Negotiations:                            July 1998
(e) Planned Board presentation:              August 6, 1998
(f) Planned date of effectiveness/first tranche:  August 1998
(g) Estimated date of second tranche:        December 1998
(h) Estimated date of third tranche:         June 1999
(i) Expected program completion:             December 1999



Attachment 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY



Attachment 4
July 17, 1998
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR THE
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
INTRODUCTION
Since late last year, Russia's financial markets have been in turmoil. Despite the policies
implemented by the new government since it was appointed earlier this year, market confidence
has not been restored, and capital flows have remained volatile. Against this background the
government has recognized the need for a further strengthening of policies. The government's
strategy in addressing the present emergency contains four main elements: (i) a radical tightening
of the federal budget; (ii) the bolstering of international reserves of the CBR through the access to
substantial foreign financing; (iii) the lengthening of debt maturity to reduce the vulnerability
arising from the short-term structure of domestic debt; and (iv) accelerated structural reform,
which we see as key to creating the conditions for longer term economic growth.
The financial market turmoil has been caused by several factors. Weaknesses in public finances
have, over time, made Russia increasingly vulnerable to changes in financial market sentiment, in
particular as the continuing fiscal deficits have led to a rapid build-up of short-term government
debt. A succession of destabilizing events in late 1997 and early 1998 contributed to the recent
financial market pressures, including the ripple effects of the financial crisis in Asia, the drop in
world commodity prices, the change in government, and social unrest.
Financial instability has altered the macroeconomic outlook for the near term. Real GDP declined
by 0.2 percent in January-May 1998, when compared with the same period in 1997, and is likely
to decline on an annual basis this year. Even with the restoration of market confidence, it is
expected that some negative impact on economic growth will be felt also in 1999.
1. THE MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM
1.1   During 1996-97, Russia made important strides in several key areas. Continued progress
was made towards macroeconomic stability; inflation declined gradually, the exchange rate was
maintained within its predetermined band, and the balance of payments position remained
favorable. Also, an open .external trade system was maintained. The economy has responded
favorably to these accomplishments, registering positive growth in 1997 for the first time since the
breakup of the former Soviet Union.
1.2   However, financial instability towards the end of 1997 and first half of 1998 sharply
altered the near term outlook. Several external factors contributed to this shift, including; (i)
S3LDP4.DOC                            1                           07/17/98 6:41 PM



global fallout from the sharp contraction in growth of Asian economies, (ii) a heightened
perception of risks in emerging markets which raised Russia's external borrowing costs, (iii) a
major strengthening of the US dollar, to which the ruble is closely linked, and consequent
appreciation of the ruble against major trade partners, and (iv) a rapid decline in international
prices of oil, natural gas, and precious metals which has sharply worsened Russia's terms of
trade. These external factors served to sharpen the impact of adverse domestic developments, in
particular rising concern over deteriorating fiscal performance and the sustainability of meeting
rising domestic debt service costs. During the first five months of 1998 GDP growth has
declined by 0.2% and is expected to remain negative for the year. High interest rates and weak
fiscal performance have curtailed consumption growth, slowed investment demand, and forced
sharp reductions in public expenditure.
1.3   These developments threaten the achievements of the last two years, and place top
priority on rapid and credible measures to strengthen fiscal performance. To solve persistent
fiscal imbalances a radical tightening of the budget is required, accompanied by structural
measures to fundamentally strengthen revenue collection capacity and eliminate the non-
payments and arrears cycle that has crippled effective budget execution. To this end, the federal
government is committed to raising total revenues by 2.6 percent of GDP in 1999 while holding
constant nominal federal non-interest expenditures. As a result, the 1999 primary fiscal balance
is targeted to improve to nearly three percent of GDP from a small negative balance this year.
This dramatic shift will be achieved through efforts to broaden the tax base, improve collection
and enforcement of tax arrears payments, increase the federal government's share of total
revenues, and reduce subventions in the economy.
1.4   To reduce the debt service burden on public finances the government is pursuing a two
pronged approach. Cutting reliance on costly short term domestic borrowing to finance the
deficit is critical. New issuance of short term treasury bills has already fallen dramatically in
1998, and by sharply reducing the 1999 public deficit (from a projected 5.6% of GDP in 1998 to
2.8% targeted in 1999) further issuance of treasury bills is expected to fall to roughly half the
level of 1997. At the same time the Govermuent has launched a new program to lengthen the
maturity of its domestic debt through offering holders of short term T-bills the opportunity to
exchange them for foreign currency Eurobonds with much longer maturities, at market rates.
This will serve to both reduce the public interest burden in the 1998 and 1999 budgets, and to
sharply reduce Russia's vulnerability to shifting market sentiment through by cutting short term
exposure.
1.5   Monetary policy and exchange rate policy will remain largely unchanged, with the
primary objective of further reducing inflation and promoting a sound balance of payments
position. To this end bolstering of international reserves through access to substantial foreign
financing is a central objective of establishing confidence in exchange rate and price stability. In
conjunction with the borrowing program from the IMF, reserves are to be maintained at around
S3LDP4.DOC                               2                         07/17/98 6:41 PM



three months of import coverage and the Central Bank of Russia will continue to pursue an
interest rate policy geared towards maintaining the real exchange rate broadly constant.
Inflation is targeted to be brought down from around 7% on average for 1998 to about 6% in
1999. The implementation of monetary policy will be supported by a comprehensive set of
monetary policy instruments, further consolidation of the banking system, and improvements in
the payments system, as elaborated in the structural discussion below.
1.6   The key to success of this macroeconomic framework is to both maintain the credibility
of fiscal reforms and to significantly accelerate the structural reform agenda. Restoring long
term growth depends crucially on these elements progressing in tandem.
THE STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
The structural measures are designed to: (i) improve the competitiveness, transparency
and accountability of infrastructure monopolies; (ii) enhance the development of the private
sector; (iii) liberalize international trade and encourage foreign direct investment; (iv) enhance
fiscal management; and (v) reform the financial sector.
2.    REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOLIES
General
Overarching Goal: To improve the transparency, fiscal accountability and competitiveness of
infrastructure monopolies, and to reduce barter and non-payments.
2.1   By July 30, 1998 a government decision will be issued requiring that, starting with the
financial accounts for 1998, the consolidated IAS financial accounts of Gazprom, RAO UES
Rossii, and Transneft and, starting with the financial accounts for 1999, the Railways, are to be
audited and published annually by June 30 of the following year by independent qualified
auditors in accordance with international auditing standards.
2.2   The following actions will be undertaken in order to reduce and, subsequently, eliminate
non cash payments and arrears in infrastructure monopoly sectors: (i) by August 1, 1998, a legal
act will be adopted requiring that VAT be calculated and collected on an accrual basis; (ii) by
August 1, 1998, the Government will issue decisions simplifying the procedures for termination
or limitation of electricity, heat and gas supplies to organizations and consumers in the event of
failure to pay for fuel and energy resources supplied; (iii) by October 1, 1998, the Government
will announce and by November 1, 1998 implement a procedure requiring all consumers of gas,
S3LDP4.DOC                             3                       07/17/98 6:41 PM



heat and electricity to make payments for these purchases to escrow accounts established jointly
by producers, transporters, distributors and any others in the supply chain, to administer the
collection of these amounts and their fair distribution to them. Any participant in the supply
chain will have the right to apply the procedures mentioned in (ii) above to any
consumer/purchaser that accumulates 45 days arrears for purchases made after July 1, 1998
and/or fails to comply with a schedule agreed between them for the liquidation of arrears relating
to products and services provided prior to July 1, 1998. (Failure to reach agreement on such a
schedule within 60 days will be grounds for applying these procedures); and (iv) by October 1,
1998, the Government will develop and announce a new procedure governing settlements by
non-budget sector organizations for purchases of gas, heat and electricity. This procedure will be
applicable effective November 1, 1998 to any such organization that has 30 days' or more of
arrears. It would give the right to any participant in the supply chain to require that such an
organization establish and maintain unconditional letters of credit in favor of the relevant escrow
account to cover payments for 30 days' worth of purchases. This requirement could remain in
effect for a reasonable time period (to be defined within the procedure).
2.3   By July 31, 1998, the Government will issue a Resolution that establishes an inter-agency
commission that coordinates and oversees reforms, including development of measures and
timetable of actions, for the horizontal and vertical competitive restructuring of key infrastructure
monopolies. This will cover the electric power, natural gas, railroads, telecommunications and
oil transport sectors.
Electric Power Sector
Overarching Goal: To make major progress towards developing an electric power sector with
diversified ownership and open to competitive forces.
2.4   The Government will issue a Resolution by August 1, 1998, in which RAO UES will be
required to establish separate accounts for generation and transmission (including dispatch) for
regulatory purposes. The Resolution will direct the Federal Energy Commission to develop
pricing methodology and issue guidelines for transmission and dispatch services provided by
RAO UES by December 1, 1998.
2.5   The same Resolution will require that each AO Energo will establish separate accounts
for generation, transmission (lines used exclusively for transmission of bulk power) and
distribution for regulatory purposes. The Resolution will direct the Federal Energy Commission
to develop pricing methodology and issue guidelines for the network services provided by AO
Energos by September 1, 1998. Costs associated with non-core activities should be accounted
for separately and not be included in costs used to establish the regulated price.
S31dp4.doc                             4                       07/17/98 6:41 PM



2.6   By January 1, 1999 the Government will issue a Resolution requiring non-discriminatory
access to transmission and distribution services and to direct the Federal Energy Commission to
develop regulatory guidelines and access rules by June 30, 1999.
2.7   The Government will foster the complete establishment of the National Energy Market
(NEM), a non-commercial partnership involving power plants, AO Energos and large industrial
users operating in the federal wholesale power market, by December 31, 1998. By October 1,
1998, the Government, through its representatives on the Board of RAO UES, will direct RAO
UES management to issue corporate guidelines requiring the change in dispatch rules with a goal
of decreasing operating costs. By March 31, 1999, RAO UES will issue guidelines to increase
the role of the Uniform Dispatch Units in providing economic dispatch and settlements.
2.8   By June 30, 1999 the Government will instruct its representatives on the Board of
Directors of RAO UES to seek adoption by RAO UES of a plan for establishing a sufficient
number of independent generation companies to enable effective competition. The plan will
provide for these generation companies to be established as legal subsidiaries of RAO UES, each
with an initial comparable competitive position, by December 31, 1999.
2.9   By August 1, 1998, RAO UES will publicly announce its intention of increasing private
sector participation in Energos in which UES has an equity stake. A list of Energos that will be
available for consideration, along with a package of relevant technical and financial information
will be issued by October 1, 1998 enabling due diligence to take place. By October 1, 1998,
RAO UES will solicit offers from the private sector for participation in Energos. The bidders
would be permitted to make a variety of offers, including, but not limited to equity investments,
management contracts, concession or leasing arrangements. Offers would be made to RAO UES
by January 1, 1999. RAO UES would review these offers and negotiate Term Sheets by March
1, 1999. An independent evaluation of these offers will be undertaken by April 1, 1999. Final
decisions on these offers would be made by RAO UES no later than June 1, 1999, and would
result in private sector participation in at least ten Energos.
Natural Gas Sector
Overarching Goal:  To promote efficiency in the natural gas industry, achieve greater
transparency and accountability in the operations of Gazprom, and facilitate pipeline access for
independent gas producers, including those who are currently flaring gas.
2.10  To facilitate effective regulation and support customers' access to lower-cost gas
supplies, by August 1, 1998 the Government will issue a decision requiring Gazprom to
reorganize, by January 1, 1999, its existing regional transmission operations into a single
transmission enterprise or a number of enterprises, based on major transmission corridors, such
enterprise or enterprises to be in compliance with the Civil Code. In addition, by August 1,
S31dp4.doc                              5                        07/17/98 6:41 PM



1998, the Government will issue a decision requiring Gazprom by January 1, 1999 to operate .the
company's transmission, production and supply enterprises as separate cost/profit centers with
separate management teams and their own accounts based on international accounting and audit
standards. The transmission enterprise(s) will only provide gas transmission services.
2.11   By December 31, 1998, the Government will establish a revised system for gas excise
taxes which applies the production rent component of excise at the level of monopoly producers,
without reducing Federal tax revenue. The production rent component would be: (i) applied at a
uniform level to all volumes entering the main transmission network from the Gazprom system
at each major access hub or for other monopoly producers at the wellhead; (ii) differentiated to
reflect the weighted average production cost of gas at each of the major access hubs/wellheads;
and (iii) remitted by gas wholesalers.
2.12 By August 31, 1998, the FEC will issue revised interim Regulations on state regulation of
differentiated wholesale prices for natural gas. The Regulations will incorporate the principles
that prices should: (i) ensure that supplying enterprises can recover prudently incurred costs of
service from customers, including a reasonable return on capital; (ii) encourage efficient
operations at all levels in the supply chain, and (iii) incorporate the principle that tariffs should
fully reflect differences in costs of service arnong different customer classes and geographic
regions. Prices based on the new interim Regulations will be announced by November 30, 1998,
and applied effective January 1, 1999. In order to lessen the shock of transition to full cost-
reflective tariffs, it is expected that these prices would incorporate increased regional
differentiation of wholesale prices.
2.13 By November 30, 1998, the Government will approve a methodology for setting separate
prices for gas production, transmission and supply (delivery) services which will supersede the
above-noted interim  Regulations as a basis for determining wholesale gas prices.  The
methodology will reflect the pricing principles outlined above with respect to the interim
Regulations. Differentiated and separate prices fully reflective of the revised methodology will
be introduced by the FEC not later than July 1, 1999.
2.14 By August 31, 1998, the FEC will approve and make public a revised methodology for
determining service tariffs (including local transportation tariffs) for gas distribution companies
and by September 30, 1998 will issue and make public recommendations for setting retail prices
for different customer groups. The methodology and recommendations will be based on
principles that prices should (i) ensure that distribution companies can recover prudently incurred
costs of service from customers, including a reasonable return on capital; (ii) encourage efficient
operations on the part of the distribution companies; and (iii) fully reflect differences in costs of
service among different customer classes. Prices based on the revised methodology and
recommendations will be introduced for the non-residential customers of gas distribution
companies no later than December 31, 1998. The FEC, in cooperation with the REC, will also
S31dp4.doc                               6                         07/17/98 6:41 PM



make public, for each distribution company, both the calculated cost-based prices and the actual
prices for each customer group (including the level of cross-subsidies).
2.15  The FEC will continue the process of delegating the power to implement the regulation of
gas distribution tariffs and gas prices for final consumers to the regional energy commissions
(RECs), where such regulation follows pricing principles and procedures prepared by the FEC.
The RECs to which authority will be delegated will have met the following criteria as set out by
the FEC: (i) appropriate legal basis for implementing the regulations in question; (ii) adequate
professional staffing; (iii) operational rules approved by the FEC; (iv) a chairperson approved by
the FEC; and (v) an established panel of independent experts for advice and comment.
2.16  In order to increase the transparency of relationships between the gas transmission and
gas delivery monopolies of RAO Gazprom, and at the same time develop an environment which
is more conducive to the development of competition, the FEC will (i) by November 1, 1998,
develop model contracts for transactions between gas delivery organizations and gas
transmission companies for transportation services, issue a resolution directing that these
contracts will apply to all transactions effective January 1, 1999; and (ii) by July 31, 1999, issue
a resolution providing that prices charged to independent gas producers and gas delivery
companies for the use of the transmission system of RAO Gazprom are equivalent to tariffs
which are charged to Mezhregiongaz for the same services.
2.17 By July 31, 1998, the Govermment will adopt a Resolution that provides for the
elimination of state regulation of prices on gas sold by gas-producing organizations not affiliated
with RAO Gazprom. By September 30, 1998 the Government will prepare, adopt and implement
"Rules of Gas Supply" that address, inter alia, the rights and responsibilities of gas producers
independent of RAO Gazprom and the rules of supply to household customers. By September
30, 1998, the government will publish a review for public comment of the effectiveness of
Resolution 858 (on providing access to the gas transmission networks by independent gas
producers) in increasing the market share of independent gas producers. The review, carried out
by independent consultants, shall include (i) comparative statistical data with respect to growth
over the preceding year in terms of market shares, deliveries, and new contracts for independent
producers; (ii) a comparison of the prices paid to independent producers relative to the regulated
city-gate prices; and, (iii) a survey of at least 10 independent producers, including both
participants and non-participants, to obtain their assessments of the strengths and weaknesses of
the program. Based on the review (and public comments thereon), the government will, by
October 31, 1998, adopt and implement a Resolution which will improve the effectiveness of the
rules and procedures in promoting non-discriminatory access by independent producers and
suppliers, and will extend the access rights to allow non-discriminatory access by foreign
producers of gas to Russian markets.
S31dp4.doc                             7                       07/17/98 6:41 PM



Oil Sector
Overarching Goal: To improve the efficiency of oil transport through regulatory reform, ensuring
equitable access to pipelines, and creating a favorable investment climate.
2.18  In late 1997, the FEC published its initial views on the principles on the methodology for
setting regulated crude oil transportation tariffs on Transneft's pipeline system. By July 31,
1998, the FEC will publish for comment its -revised proposals on this methodology incorporating
principles which will (i) ensure that Transneft can recover prudently incurred costs of service
from shippers, including a reasonable return on investment; (ii) encourage efficient operations,
and (iii) be based on costs so that the tariffs should fully reflect differences in costs of service.
After taking into account the views of interested parties, the FEC will issue by September 15,
1998 a resolution which provides for revised tariffs which will be applied effective January 1,
1999.
2.19 By November 30, 1998, the MOFE will have signed a contract with a independent
reputable experienced consulting firm selected after an international competition to conduct and
publish a comprehensive operational audit of Transneft to assist the company in improving its
operational efficiency.
2.20 The Government will submit a draft oil pipeline law to the Duma with a view to
enactment by April 30, 1999. This comprehensive law will include provisions for non-
discriminatory access and tariffs, and limitations on integration of ownership of assets in oil
trunk transmission with ownership of assets in other oil sector activities. It will be enacted prior
to the Government proceeding with the privatization of Transneft's core business assets.
2.21 The Government will submit to the Duma with a view to enactment by November 30,
1998 the law "Introduction of Changes and Additions to Legislative Acts of the Russian
Federation ensuing from the Federal Law On Production Sharing Agreements" together with
other related enabling legislation. This related legislation will incorporate provisions directed at:
(i) preventing any undue restriction on the eligibility of oil developed under PSA arrangements;
(ii) constraining excessive limitation on access to international goods and services, technology,
and professional experience; and (iii) avoiding penalization of any group of investors.  In
addition, the Government will ensure consistency of Part II of the Tax Code with the Law on
Production Sharing Agreements. (See Fiscal Management for further discussion on the Tax
Code.)
Railways Sector
Overarching Goal: To improve efficiency within the railway system, ensure reasonable tariffs,
and create the basis for privatization of certain services.
S31dp4.doc                               8                         07/17/98 6:41 PM



2.22  By December 31, 1998, rail freight tariffs will be adjusted to eliminate any discrimination
between domestic and export rates. By June 30, 1999, rail freight tariffs will be determined
uniformly on a cost-basis for all commodities.
2.23   Separate cost accounting will be introduced and separate income statements and balance
sheets prepared for long distance passenger traffic, commuter rail traffic and freight traffic within
MPS by September 1, 1998.
2.24 By July 30, 1998 MPS will provide the Government with the book value and current
railway ownership of assets identified in the list it submitted to the Government on April 30,
1998, together with a timetable for their divestiture. By November 30, 1998 it will submit a
report to the Government listing: (i) the social and ancillary assets, together with their book value
and current owners, remaining on the books of railways which also could be divested if
recipients agreed to accept the financial responsibility for their operations; (ii) the social and
ancillary assets, together with their book values and current owners, that MPS has determined
should not be divested within the next five years, together with a rationale for this determination.
By December 31, 1998, MPS will provide the Government with an action plan for divesting the
social and ancillary assets listed included in the April 30, 1998 list and a timetable for divesting
the assets referred to in (i) above.
2.25  By September 30, 1998, the Government will issue a Resolution conferring on regional
railway administrations the sole right, effective January 1, 1999, to fix tariffs for commuter rail
services. The Resolution will also stipulate that, in cases where the concerned municipalities
desire lower tariffs than those representing full cost recovery, they will pay at least 50 % of the
resulting operating losses.
2.26 By October 1, 1998, the Government will prepare a feasibility study for establishing
long- and short-haul passenger service companies. By December 1, 1998, the first two
companies shall be established.
2.27 By September 1, 1998, the Government will develop and begin to implement a schedule
for the privatization of companies engaged in rolling stock rehabilitation and manufacturing of
spare parts and other railway-related items, as well as general construction companies.
3. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Privatization
Overarching Goal: To increase the efficiency in the use of assets employed in firms and stimulate
investment so as to resume economic growth and create jobs, and to engender revenues for the
state budget.
S31dp4.doc                               9                         07/17/98 6:41 PM



3.1   The 1998-99 privatization program will expand and accelerate significantly the process of
transparent and competitive privatization of Russian enterprises. This will be accomplished
through case-by-case privatization of the largest enterprises in accordance with Government
Resolutions 363 and 564 of 1997, and through the significant reduction in the number of firms
currently denoted as "strategic" and their privatization. To this end, a special Policy Statement
will be issued by July 31, 1998 by the Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation
announcing these initiatives. The policy statement will be published widely in the international
media.
3.2   By July 15, 1998 the Ministry of State Property will issue an ordinance establishing a list
of 15 enterprises that are part of the draft State Privatization Program and are to be privatized
according to the case-by-case procedures specified in Government Resolutions 363 and 564 of
1997. The ordinance will establish a schedule for privatizing these enterprises such that they will
be offered for sale not later than December 31, 1998, if such dates are determined on advice of
independent financial advisors as most desirable based on market conditions. The percentage of
equity offered will be determined in consultation with independent financial advisors. These
enterprises are: OAO Orenburg Oil JSC (Orenburg oblast); OAO "Kovrovo Electric Machine
Plant" (Vladimir oblast); OAO Western-Siberian Iron & Steel Factory (Kemerovo Oblast); OAO
"Stupino Iron & Steel Factory" (Moscow Oblast); OAO "Nizhni Novgorod Machine Building
Plant"; OAO "Oil & Gas Co. "Slavneft" (Moscow); Rybinsk Instrumentation Factory (Yaroslavl
Oblast); Kemerovo Mechanical Plant (Kemerovo Oblast); Kamensk Chemical Factory (Rostov
Oblast); Factory "Krasny gigant" (Penza Oblast); PO (Prod. Association) "Avangard" (Ufa);
GPO "ZiM named after Maslennikov (Samara Oblast); Plant "Kommunar"; NPO "Geofizika"
(Moscow); Vysokogorsky Mechanical Works (Sverdlovsk Oblast).
3.3   By August 31, 1998 the Ministry of State Property and the Russian Federal Property
Fund will hold competitive bids and select 9 to 11 independent financial advisors among
experienced, reputed international investment institutions. These advisors will be engaged to (i)
carry out pre-sale preparation of the largest Russian enterprises, including but not limited to
those denoted in the draft Privatization Program, and (ii) place shares of these enterprises on
world markets in accordance with Government Resolutions 363 and 564 of 1997. These advisors
will, among other things: audit and appraise the enterprises; suggest the likely market price of the
transaction; reconmmend any required organizational/managerial restructuring prior to sale; work
out the optimal privatization scheme, including the percentage of equity to be offered; and ensure
that bids will be welcomed from all physical and legal persons and foreign investors eligible
under Russian law.
(i)    Within this framework, beginning July 31, 1998, the following ten tenders will be offered
on domestic and international markets before December 31, 1998, if such dates are determined
S31dp4.doc                             10                      07/17/98 6:41 PM



on advice of independent financial advisors as most desirable based on market conditions:
Rosneft, Sviazinvest, SIBUR, LUKOil, Cheliabinskinform, Electrosviaz (Moscow Oblast),
Novossibirsk Electrode Plant, Slavneft, NORSI-Oil, RAO UES.
(ii)   Within the same framework, beginning by the end of each quarter following July 31,
1998-i.e., September 30, 1998, December 31, 1998, March 30, 1999, June 30, 1999,
September 30, 1999, and December 31, 1999-at least 7 firns listed on the draft Privatization
Program issued by the Government on April 21, 1998 shall be brought to point of sale within the
subsequent six months, if such dates are determined on advice of independent financial
advisors as most desirable based on market conditions.
3.4   To increase the scope of privatization, a Government Resolution will be issued by July
31, 1998 that reduces the list of "strategic" enterprises under Government Resolution 949 of
September 18, 1995 barred from any privatization to either domestic or foreign investors from
3,000 to less than 1000 firms. The Resolution shall specify that the enterprises removed from
the "strategic" list will be subject to transparent and competitive privatization processes,
beginning September 30, 1998 to December 31, 2000. For the enterprises removed from the
"strategic" list, in accordance with market conditions as assessed by independent financial
advisors, at least 10 percent will be brought to the point of sale by December 31, 1998, at least 15
percent will be brought to the point of sale by March 31, 1999, at least 25 percent will be brought
to the point of sale by June 30, 1999, at least 30 percent will be brought to the point of sale by
September 31, 1999, 40 percent will be brought to the point of sale by December 31, 1999, and
100 percent will be brought to the point of sale by December 31, 2000.
3.5   By October 31, 1998 the Government will adopt selection criteria as to which of the
existing 6,500 agro-industrial enterprises will remain under exclusive federal ownership until the
year 2000. Based on these criteria, by November 30, 1998, the Government will issue a
Resolution specifying the list of agro-industry enterprises that will remain under federal
ownership until 2000. The list will specify the name, legal address, core activity, and
institutional and legal status of the enterprise. Starting from January 1, 1999, the Government
will, market conditions permitting, bring to the point of sale by December 31, 1999, at least 10
percent of the enterprises not included on the list. Subsequent sales will be announced in the
future. The privatization process shall be according to the rules governing competitive cash
auctions, without distributing majority shareholding to suppliers of raw materials under
preferential terms.
Bankruptcy
Overarching Goal: To make the bankruptcy process more efficient.
S31dp4.doc                               1                        07/17/98 6:41 PM



3.6   The government will implement measures to eliminate the bias in the bankruptcy law
towards reorganization rather than liquidation of enterprises. To this end, by September 30, 1998,
the Government will submit to the Duma with the view to enactment by December 31, 1998
amendments to (i) the Bankruptcy Law that eliminate court discretion in overruling the creditors'
decision to liquidate the debtor enterprise and (ii) amendments to the Civil Code to strengthen
the rights of secured creditors. In addition, the government will take all necessary steps to
implement the new laws on enforcement of court judgements, including by fully staffing the
court officers' corps by December 31, 1998.
Competition Policy
Overarching Goal:  Strengthening the government's capacity to intervene to promote
competition.
3.7   The Government will implement by September 30, 1998 measures to strengthen the
mission of the Antimonopoly Committee, both at the Federal and sub-federal levels, with a view
towards introducing a more effective rules-based competition policy institutional regime in the
Russian Federation, ensuring that territorial branches exist in each region. Through such
measures and in the 1999 budget, the Antimonopoly Committee will be given adequate financial
and human resources commensurate with its revitalized mission. The mission of the
Antimonopoly Committee will have as principal objectives the creation of a unified economic
space throughout the Russian Federation and preventing restrictive business practices, in
particular anti-competitive mergers and acquisitions. The Antimonopoly Committee will
develop and implement policy measures that deal with reducing anti-competitive horizontal and
vertical concentration and integration in key product and geographic manufacturing and
infrastructure monopoly markets, including industrial and financial groups (FIGs) and the
petroleum sector.
3.8   By November 30, 1998 the Antimonopoly Committee will issue for public comment
explicit and well-defined merger guidelines that establish general policy parameters for
distinguishing between pro-competitive and anti-competitive mergers based on similar guidelines
consistent with international practice. Following public comment, these new merger guidelines
will be published widely by December 31, 1998.
3.9   The State Antimonopoly Committee, in collaboration with other federal organs, will
implement by September 30, 1998 new measures to remove administrative and policy-induced
barriers at Federal and sub-Federal levels to the free movement of goods and services throughout
the Russian Federation. The measures will include stronger enforcement penalties than presently
exist. To introduce at the Federal and sub-federal levels new rules-based, streamlined business
licensing procedures and fee structures, the Government will seek passage of the Law on
Licensing by December 31, 1998.
S31dp4.doc                            12                      07/17/98 6:41 PM



3.10  In order to foster resolution of business disputes, new measures will be implemented by
July 31, 1998 that strengthen and enlarge the bailiff service so as to provide for more effective
enforcement compliance, including criminal sanctions, by losing defendants in arbitrazh court
cases.
Corporate Governance and Investor Rights
Overarching Goal: Clearly signaling the government's determination to protect investors.
3.11   The Government will submit to the Duma with a view to enactment by December 31,
1998, legislation that amends the Federal Law "On Joint-Stock Companies" stipulating, in
particular, protection of minority shareholders' rights, including protection from transfer of
assets to parent (affiliate) companies, by enhancing the penalties for violating investors' rights.
3.12 By September 1, 1998, the Federal Securities Commission (FSC) of Russia will adopt a
Resolution on the procedure governing compilation and submission by issuers of securities of
quarterly reports, with a special focus on information disclosure by enterprises quoted on public
exchanges.
3.13  By July 30, 1998, the Government of the Russian Federation will adopt and initiate
implementation of the State Program on Protection of Investors' Rights that will spell out further
key tasks and measures to be undertaken in 1998 and 1999. The Government will also ensure
that the FSC will be provided sufficient resources to enforce investors' rights. This will be
achieved by assigning a share of fee revenue from licensing of securities' market participants to
the FSC.
3.14 By October 31, 1998 the Government will publish procedures consistent with Decree No.
395 and Decree No. 392 for restructuring the debts of agricultural enterprises. By December 31,
1998, the Government will implement the above mentioned procedures. In any new legal
enactments regarding the establishment of joint stock companies in the agricultural sector and the
legal status of such companies, the Government will affirm and protect the right of members of
the joint stock company to invest the use right of land in the charter capital of the enterprise
while retaining ownership of the land.
Fostering Labor Mobility
3.15   The Government will submit to the Duma by November 1, 1998, a new Labor Code that
would bring the labor laws in compliance with the requirements of a market economy. The Code
will establish a realistic and feasible minimum of social guarantees, enhance the role of
individual labor agreements, including a more simplified procedure for dissolving individual
S31dp4.doc                              13                       07/17/98 6:41 PM



labor agreements (such as excluding the need for consent of trade unions and finding alternative
employment), and expand the ability to enter into fixed term and multiple-work contracts. The
Code will also contain provisions ensuring that social partnership be targeted at forming and
implementing collective agreements at the level of individual enterprises, as well as ensure the
establishment of efficient institutions ensuring implementation of individual and collective
agreements, settlement of collective disputes and compliance with the requirements of the labor
legislation.
Land/Real Estate
Overarching Goal: To further develop the legal and institutional framework for full private
ownership and development of land and real estate markets.
3.16 By August 30, 1998 the Government will approve the Federal Program on Development
of Land Reform in the Russian Federation in 1998-2001 and ensure that by September 30, 1998 a
Presidential Decree is issued to enact the above Program. The Program shall include an
affirmation of the rights of citizens of the Russian Federation to engage in transactions in land,
including purchase, sale, rental, and mortgage, and shall specify a program of actions to facilitate
transactions. The reform strategy outlined in the Program will focus on pragmatic and readily
implementable steps on clarifying rights in land, transferring commercially valuable land from
municipal and state ownership to either private ownership or long term (49 years) lease, and
simplifying the procedures by which transactions with land can take place. The Program should
be supported by an action plan for implementation thereof to be approved by October 30, 1998.
At the same time the Government will encourage implementation of Presidential Decree "On
Exercising Individuals' Constitutional Rights to Land" No. 337 of March 7, 1996 with a view to
facilitate entering into agreements for the use of land shares by all users of agricultural land.
3.17 The Government will submit to the Duma with a view to enactment by December 31,
1998 legislation that includes the draft Federal Laws "On State and Municipal Land," "On the
State Land Cadaster," "On Appraisal of Land," and "On Land Management". Such laws will be
aimed at further liberalization of the land market. The Federal Law on Cadastre will provide for
establishment of the basic cadastre, that is information on parcel existence, location, and
approximate boundaries, and allow for establishment of additional layers of cadastral information
by agencies responsible for such work.
3.18 By December 31, 1998, the Government will adopt and start implementing a Resolution
to establish the program for the phased introduction of the uniform system of state registration in
accordance with the Federal Law "On State Registration of Rights and Transactions in Real
Estate" and Government Resolution No. 1378 of November 1, 1997, which implements the law.
Such Resolution shall clarify the steps that will be taken to have functioning registration offices
established at the rayon level, the specific nature of inter-agency cooperation required, and the
S31dp4.doc                             14                      07/17/98 6:41 PM



sources of financing for implementing this plan. By March 30, 1999 a Government Resolution
shall be approved specifying detailed procedures for the registry offices' functioning.
Accounting andAuditing
Overarching Goal: To achieve substantial progress in implementing financial accounting and
auditing standards and practices in line with international principles.
3.19 With regard to accounting reform, the Government will ensure the implementation of the
measures specified in the Action Plan of the Accounting Reform Program based on International
Accounting Standards (IAS) approved by Resolution No 283 of the Government to develop
national accounting standards consistent with IAS and to support the establishment of the self-
regulating independent accounting professional body. By December 31, 1998, under the
guidance of the Interagency Commission for Accounting and Reporting Reform, the Ministry of
Finance will develop the first 10 accounting rules (standards) fully consistent with international
requirements (IAS); and will ensure that such rules are made effective as of January 1, 1999. In
addition to development of new and revision of previously approved national accounting
standards based on IAS, by September 30, 1998 the Government will revise the rules for forming
financial statements of commercial organizations and consolidated financial statements for
groups of organizations in compliance with IAS; will prepare standard recommendations on the
organization of accounting for small business entities in compliance with IAS; and will develop
Standards of professional ethics of accountants in compliance with international practice.
3.20 By December 31, 1998 the Government will develop new Charts of Accounts in
compliance with IAS for commercial entities, budgetary organizations, professional participants
of the securities market and investment funds; will revise the source accounting documentation
with account taken of the requirements of the market economy and international financial
reporting standards.
3.21 With regard to auditing reform, the Government will finalize the draft law "On Auditing
in the Russian Federation" and submit it to the State Duma by November 30, 1998, with a view
to enactment by March 31, 1999. The draft law will provide for the gradual transition of auditing
regulation powers from Federal bodies to the self-regulating independent auditing profession. In
accordance with the 1998-1999 Program of auditing the accounts (financial statements) of
economic entities using auditing standards based on international practice, the Government will
ensure implementation of measures to arrange the auditing activities in the Russian Federation
in compliance with the existing regulatory framework and national auditing regulations
(standards) which are being developed on the basis of the International Standards on Auditing
(ISA). By December 31, 1998 the Government will adopt 22 audit standards (inclusive of those
adopted earlier) in compliance with ISA. By May 31, 1999, an additional eleven auditing
standards based on ISA will be adopted by the Government.
S31dp4.doc                             15                     07/17/98 6:41 PM



Liberalizing the International Trade and Foreign Direct Investment Regimes
Overarching Goal: To send a clear signal to foreign investors of the government's intentions to
ensure they receive fair treatment and to harmonize production certification standards with
international practice so as to reduce barriers to foreign trade.
3.22 By September 30, 1998 a special Policy Statement will be issued by the Chairman of the
Government of the Russian Federation, which will be published widely in the international
media, that states the Government's commitment to continue to improve the policy environment
for foreign direct investment by bringing the fiscal, regulatory and legal policy regime in line
with international standards. Measures to bring about such changes will include the following
reforms: (i) "national treatment" will be adhered to both for right of establishment and for post-
establishment operations; (ii) the number of restricted sectors and limitations on foreign direct
investment will be substantially reduced; (iii) enforcement of property rights will be
strengthened; (iv) investor-State dispute resolution mechanisms will be made more efficient,
including giving foreign investors the opportunity to seek neutral, binding international
arbitration; (v) foreign investor registration procedures will be simplified, rules-based, and made
transparent; (vi) guarantee schemes covering basic non-commercial risks will be maintained and
extended; and (vii) restrictions for foreign investment in services sectors will be reduced.
3.23  By October 1, 1998, a new procedure for mandatory certification will become effective,
which will envisage both reduction in the number of goods subject to mandatory certification,
and simplification of imposed requirements. An approved Concept for Developing Certification
will target gradual substitution of a producer's declaration for the current pre-market
certification. The Government will submit to the Duma with a view to enactment by December
31, 1998, a law to reduce duplication of certification procedures applied by different ministries to
the homogeneous groups of goods. By December 31, 1999 harmonization of Russian standards
in priority sectors with internationally accepted ones will be essentially completed.
4. FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Elimination of Non-Payments and Arrears
Overarching Goal: To eliminate arrears and the practice of non-payments.
4.1    On the basis of a Presidential Instruction issued by July 17, 1998, the Government will
prepare and submit to the Duma a draft 1999 Budget Law which will include a requirement that
regions will receive substantially reduced federal transfer payments, grants or loans unless they
meet the following conditions: (i) maintain accounts payable of 45 days or less of sales
S31dp4.doc                               16                        07/17/98 6:41 PM



equivalent to infrastructure monopolies in respect of services provided after September 30, 1998;
(ii) comply with a schedule agreed with infrastructure monopolies for the liquidation of arrears
relating to products and services provided prior to September 30, 1998; (iii) maintain wage and
payroll tax arrears at 30 days or less of the current wage-bill; (iv) ensure that all transactions are
on a cash basis; (v) meet federal targets for cost recovery on housing and communal services;
and (vi) themselves apply conditions (i)-(v) above in respect of their transfers, grants or loans to
municipal governments.
Tax Administration and Policy
Overarching Goal: To strengthen revenue collection performance, improve tax administration,
and reduce distortions in the tax structure.
4.2   To improve tax administration, the Government will seek to have Part I of the Tax Code
enacted by July 20, 1998, and the government will introduce into the Duma legislation to amend
some key deficiencies of Part I of the Tax Code by January 1, 1999. This amended version will
give the tax authorities broad powers to collect both tax principal and interest and fines without
recourse to the court system, eliminate deferrals for tax payers with arrears from the budget, and
permit the tax authorities to issue broad instructions to enforce tax laws without having detailed
tax administration provisions codified in the law. The amended Part I of the Tax Code will also
contain improvements in the tax administration such as making tax agents who fail to transfer
withheld taxes to the budget subject to criminal liabilities and giving the tax authorities the
ability to issue liens on the bank accounts of tax delinquents.
4.3   To reduce tax distortions and encourage long term savings instruments, the Government
will seek to amend Part II of the Tax Code by September 30, 1998 to, inter alia, (i) ensure that
taxation of interest earnings on all deposit accounts in banks will be at uniform rates with those
applied to all non-government securities, (ii) the principles of sharing between the government
and developers after payment of appropriate investment and expenses are consistent with the
provisions in the Law on Production Sharing Agreements. The Government will seek to have
Part II of the Tax Code signed into law by January 1, 1999.
4.4   In order to further streamline tax administration, by July 17, 1998 the Federal Agency for
Foreign Currency and Export Control and the Tax Police will be made subordinate to the
Minister Head of the STS. By September 1, 1998, the government will take a decision
concerning the appropriate responsibilities of the Federal Agency for Foreign Currency and
Export Control with a view to eliminate duplicate functions and redundant activities.
4.5   Collection of arrears from large tax debtors will continue to be a central element of the
revenue collection strategy. From July 1, 1998 and during the remainder of the year, the
Emergency Tax Commission will meet monthly, to take steps to collect arrears in each quarter
S3ldp4.doc                               17                      07/17/98 6:41 PM



from at least the 20 largest remaining tax debtors. Further, a newly created Federal Debt Center
will begin sales of the assets seized from tax debtors. All necessary steps will be taken to ensure
that the specialized tax inspectorate, established under Government Resolution No. 9 within the
State Tax Service (STS) to monitor the largest tax payers, will operate effectively.
4.6   The role of banks in enforcing tax collection through the banking system needs to be
revamped as the current system has negatively affected financial intermediation through the
banking system. By September 1, 1998, the Government will establish a plan to remove tax
administration functions from the banking system. In particular, legislation will be passed
defining procedures for the State Tax Service (STS) to issue liens on any bank account and
resources held in the banking system in line with international practice. A major goal of this
plan will be to eliminate the use of settlement accounts by the tax authorities by January 1, 1999.
In line with international practice, the STS will begin seizure of real assets or initiate bankruptcy
proceedings against any enterprises for which there has been a lien on bank accounts for 60 days
or more.
Expenditure Management And Policy
Overarching Goal: To improve control over and efficiency of public expenditure.
4.7   To improve budget management and execution, the Government will seek to have the
Budget Code signed into law.
4.8   Building upon the census and rationalization of government employment under the Fiscal
Action Plan, the Government will, by December 1, 1998 present its proposals for Administrative
Reform to the President, specifying the functions that the government will be carrying out in the
future and steps aimed at improved efficiency in government structure and staffing.
4.9   To control cash spending and improve expenditure management the government will
adopt by executive order a revised timetable by July 17, 1998 to complete moving all federal
agencies into the federal treasury by January 1, 1999. This will include all budget recipients of
the Ministry of Defense, the operations of all the earmarked budget funds, (including the Road
Fund and Customs System Development Fund), and all foreign exchange accounts of the STS
and State Customs Committee. The government will by September 1, 1998, close all off-budget
accounts that are of a budgetary nature and have flows intermediated by the federal treasury.
4.10 A law will be submitted to the Duma by September 1, 1998 to allow the federal treasury
to pre-approve contracts that are to be financed from federal budget funds, with a view to
enactment by October 31, 1998. This law will specify that contracts that are not registered will
not be a legal obligation of the federal government, and that only contracts within the financial
ceilings established by the federal budget will be registered. In addition, the federal treasury will
S31dp.doc                              18                      07/17/98 6:41PM



put in place a reporting system allowing the amount of registered contracts to be monitored
against budget limits on an ongoing basis.
4.11 The Government will ensure that the accounts payable of budget organizations to
infrastructure monopolies at no time exceed 30 days of current sales for sales after July 1, 1998.
Reform of Extrabudgetary Funds and Earmarked Budget Funds
Overarching Goal: To improve transparency and reduce waste in extrabudgetary funds.
4.12  In order to achieve the necessary adjustment in federal expenditures and meet the 1999
fiscal targets, the Government will seek to remove the earmarked status of the various budget
funds in the 1999 Budget Law (in particular of the Road Fund and Customs System
Development Fund), and have their revenue sources accrue to the general revenue of the federal
budget. The expenditures of the Road Fund will be closely scrutinized with a view to reducing
their outlays by 30 percent in 1999. The expenditures of the Road Fund will be brought under
federal treasury control and its expenditure commitments will be subject to the same contract
preapproval as other budgetary spending.
4.13  The budget address of July 17, 1998 will instruct the government to ensure the reduction
of the payroll tax earmarked for the Social Insurance Fund to 4.9 percent (from 5.4 percent) and
at the same time the government will elaborate measures to reduce the overall expenditures of
the Social Insurance Fund by 25% in 1999. This will involve eliminating all expenditures that
are not directly related to providing insurance related benefits (eg. sick leave and maternity
benefits). Any resulting surplus in the SIF will be transferred to the Pension Fund for payment
of pension benefits.
4.14 The Employment Fund will be subjected to treasury control from October 1, 1998. In
addition, the Presidential address on the principles of the 1999 budget of July 17, 1998 will
instruct the Government to have the Employment Fund's revenues collected by the STS as of
January 1, 1999 on an earmarked basis. -
4.15   The Government envisages a number of actions to restore the solvency of the Pension
Fund. A Government Resolution has been issued that introduces, as of August 1, 1998, a
temporary 2 percent earmarked tax surcharge on the personal incomes to be paid to the Pension
Fund. This same resolution will also expand the base for the employer contribution. The
surcharge will remain in place and further increases in pension benefits will be avoided as long
as the Pension Fund remains in deficit or new pension arrears are being accumulated. In
addition, legislation will be proposed to the Duma in the special August session, that will expand
the base for both employee and employer payroll tax contributions, and will shift the burden of
the tax from employers to employees. Should these measures prove insufficient to restore
Pension Fund balance by September 1, 1998, the Government will either reduce pension benefits
starting with those above the minimum or further increase the payroll tax surcharge (in order to
S31dp4.doc                          19                         07/17/98 6:41 PM



restore Pension Fund balance). Further efforts will also be made to reduce the administration
costs of the Pension Fund. In order to ensure budget organizations comply with their obligations
to the PF, from September 1, 1998 the Federal Treasury will transfer directly to the PF federal
allocations for payroll tax payments on budgetary employee's wages.
4.16 By July 31, 1998, the Government will issue a resolution mandating annual audits,
carried out in line with international auditing standards and supervised by the Ministry of
Finance, of the Social Insurance Fund, Medical Insurance Fund and the Road Fund.. Contracts
for the first of these audits will be awarded by November 1, 1998 for audit of 1998 accounts, to
be completed by December 31, 1999.
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
Overarching Goal: To put in place basic elements of intergovernmental fiscal relationships that
encourage reform, improve tax collection, eliminate unfunded mandates, and promote equitable
treatment of regions.
4.17 By July 30, 1998 the Government will approve a revised Concept Paper on Sub-National
Fiscal Reform which will, inter alia, provide clear conceptual guidelines for the reform of sub-
national fiscal relations between the federal and regional levels of government. By September
30, 1998 the Government will prepare another detailed Concept Paper establishing the principles
for reform of sub-regional government fiscal relations. These two concept papers will cover the
formulation of expenditure and revenue assignments for the different levels of Government, and
a reformulated system of financial flows from federal to regional governments.  Three
mechanisms for channelling all federal support to the regions will be set out in detail in these
papers; the Fund for Financial Support to Regions (FFSR- transfers for equalization), the Fund
for Regional Development (FRD- loans and grants for public investment), and the Fund for the
Development of Regional Finances (FDRF-loans for reform).
4.18  As an intermediate step, a new formula for allocating resources transferred to regions
through the FFSR, based on the Concept Paper on Subnational Fiscal Reform, will be
incorporated in the draft 1999 Budget Law. By June 1, 1999 additional revisions to the formula
for transfer allocation will be adopted through a government resolution, to be incorporated in the
2000 Budget Law, which will be based on the objectives of (i) reducing inequality of revenue
capacity of subjects of the federation, (ii) use of federally defined expenditure norms to define
expenditure needs, and (iii) strengthening incentives for regions to increase revenue collection.
4.19 By April 1, 1999, appropriate legislation will be submitted to the Duma or other legal acts
will be completed, to provide clear assignments of revenue and expenditure responsibilities for
each level of government. These measures will establish inter alia, (i) a more stable and fully
transparent system of revenue assignments, (ii) total budget revenue capacity at each level of
S31dp4.doc                             20                      07/17/98 6:41 PM



government commensurate with their respective expenditure responsibilities, (iii) clear criteria
under which regional and local authorities may be allowed to set regional tax rates, (iv) the
principles under which loans, transfers and grants between levels of government will be
conditional on compliance with stated criteria or on the basis of bilateral agreements, and (v)
terms under which resources of the FDRF will be made available to regional governments.
These principles will be fully reflected in preparation of the 2000 Federal budget and the budgets
of subjects of the federation.
Sovereign and Subnational Borrowing
Overarching Goal: To ensure that public borrowing is monitored and held within prudent
limitations.
4.20  The government will strengthen sovereign and sub-national debt monitoring to
significantly improve the coordination and management of external and domestic debt, at both
federal and sub-national levels, within the Ministry of Finance. To this end the Government will
initiate an integrated public debt monitoring system in the Ministry of Finance by January 1,
1999 which will cover both sovereign and sub-national debt, including all obligations of federal
and sub-national authorities. In particular, the debt management system will cover all public
debt including guarantees, and other public contingent liabilities or conditional obligations. Any
necessary legal acts or decisions to implement this expanded definition of public debt will be
adopted before September 1, 1998. By February 1, 1999 the Government shall complete a
Report with comprehensive and detailed accounting of all federal level obligations as of
December 31, 1998. A Report with comprehensive and detailed accounting of all sub-national
level obligations shall be prepared by May 1, 1999, with reporting current through December 31,
1998.
4.21  To improve oversight of sub-national debt, the Government will submit to the Duma with
a view to enactment by January 1, 1999, or will issue regulations, as necessary, to (i) establish
satisfactory and transparent prudential limitations and preconditions for sub-national borrowing,
(ii) provide for verification by the Ministry of Finance that these limitations and preconditions
have been met, as a condition for such borrowing to be a valid obligation of subnational
governments, and (iii) establish a central registration capacity of sub-national public debt in the
Ministry of Finance.
5. FINANCIAL SECTOR
Banking Reform
Overarching Goal: To improve the soundness, efficiency, transparency and competitiveness of
the banking system.
S31dp4.doc                          21                         07/17/98 6:41 PM



5.1.  More stringent prudential rules, especially with regard to banks' foreign exchange
operations and positions, will be adopted. The requirement to provide consolidated reports
beginning on January 1, 1999 will be extended to nonbank financial institutions. The government
and the CBR will make every effort to ensure that amendments to the Central Bank Law to
expand consolidated reporting to non-bank subsidiaries of commercial banks will be adopted by
January 1, 1999, sufficiently prior to the implementation of such reporting from July 1, 1999.
Prudential norms on banks' off-balance sheet foreign currency exposure will be strengthened, by
September 30, 1998, through the imposition of limits on single party and connected party
exposure, and out-of-money options will no longer be considered adequate for covering on-
balance sheet exposure.
5.2   By September 30, 1998, the CBR will adopt a timetable to introduce accrual accounting
for banks, with a view to introduce such accounting on January 1, 1999 if the Tax Code is in
effect at that time. By January 1, 1999, and in tandem with the Tax Code, the CBR will bring the
Russian accounting standards in full conformity with the main principles of the International
Accounting Standards (IAS). The appropriateness of the introduction, by January 1, 1999, of 100
percent pre-tax provisioning for bad loans of commercial banks will be assessed in the context of
the review of the program.
5.3   The CBR will begin developing a strategy for fostering competition and a strong and
efficient banking sector in the long run. A draft of such a strategy will be prepared by end-1998.
Over the short to medium term, the CBR will continue withdrawing licenses of weak and
insolvent banks and streamlining the banking sector. liquidation of small insolvent banks (with
capital of less than ECU 1 million) will be stepped-up and their licenses will be revoked by
January 1, 2000 should they not reach the new minimum requirement. With regard to medium
aiid large banks, the CBR and the government will devise a comprehensive approach for
addressing problem banks which will include: (i) diagnosis; (ii) corrective action; (ii) bank
restructuring; and (iii) bank liquidation. Such a strategy will be reflected in a bank restructuring
framework to be prepared by October 31, 1998. The framework will be formulated on the basis
of a full diagnosis of the size and nature of the problem and will involve setting out uniform rules
and procedures to be followed.
5.4   The government and the CBR will make every effort to have the Bank Bankruptcy Law
and the laws amending the CBR Law and the Law on Banks and Banking Activities enacted by
end-1998 to improve the CBR's supervisory powers and to provide an adequate legal basis for
the bank restructuring framework. These laws will include adequate provisions to strengthen the
regulatory powers of the CBR, including revoking licenses, effectively liquidating insolvent
banks, and imposing further liability on banks' shareholders.
5.5   The CBR will continue to increase the transparency of its own operations and will put in
place requirements to increase transparency for commercial banks. The policy of announcing
S31dp4.doc                            22                      07/17/98 6:41 PM



weekly data on external reserves, begun in June, will be expanded to include the announcement
of base money. The CBR will publish summary information on the financial situation of the 30
largest banks on a monthly basis and a requirement will be introduced for banks to provide
quarterly disclosures of key information. The standards for disclosure by banks holding more
than 10 percent of household deposits in the banking system will be signiificantly expanded. By
August 1, 1998, the ten largest banks will be required to publish quarterly accounts, have annual
accounts prepared and audited by a reputable. qualified firm, and make the results public.
Sergei Kiriyenko                             Sergei Dubinin
Chairman                                     Chairnan
Government of the Russian Federation     Central Bank of the Russian Federation
S3LDP4.DOC                               23                       07/17/98 6:41 PM



Attachment 5
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY REFORMS PROGRAM MATRIX



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Infrastructure Monopoly Reform - Pago 1
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOLIES
Policy Objeclve      Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2  |Ations Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SAL I                                                                  of SAL3                          of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 199S)           Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
I. Croes-Sectomal n.rm
To   improve  the  The Govemment has made  The Government has adopted Resolution 1 928  As it has throughout 1997, in 1998 the  In order to reduce and, subsequently, eliminate non cash
tansparency, fiscal  adequate provisions in the  of July 27, 1997 that establishes a procedure  Govemment will ensure that there are no  payments and  arrears in  infrastructure  monopoly
accountrablity  and  1997 budget to pay for the  for clearing payment arrenrs for supplied fiel  arrears to energy suppliers on account of  sectors:
competitiveness  of  fuel and energy consumption  and energy resources.                      the remaining strategic customers.
infrastsuture       of the remaining "strategic                                                                                       (i) by October 1, 1998, the Govermment will announce,
monopolies, and to  customers" who may not be  In August 1997 the Govemment outlined an  A Government Instruction (SK-P7-13321,  and by November 1, 1998 implement, a procedure
reduce  barter and  disconnected for nonpayment,  action plan for restructuring the electric power  May 10, 1998) has been issued to prepare  requiring all consumers of gas, heat and electricity to
non-paynents.       as listed in the Govemment  and natural gas sectors.                     guidelines for implementation of quarterly  make payments for these purchases to escrow accounts
Decree 74, issued January 28.                                            accounts based on Intemational Accounting  established  jointly  by   producers,  transporters,
1997.                                                                   Standards (IAS) for RAO Gazprom, RAO   distributors and any others in the supply chain to
UES Rossii (UESR), the Railways, and  administer (a) the collection of these amounts and (b)
On  April  3,  1997,  the                                                Transeft, and requiring the preparation of  their fair distribution to them. Any participant in the
Govemment  approved  an                                                  quanerly accounts for RAO Gazprom, and  supply chain will have the right to apply the procedures
action plan for the phased                               .RAO UESR starting from the third quarter  mentioned in Govemment Resolution No. 789 of July
elimination of cross-subsidies                                           of 1998.                                 17, 1998 to any consumer/purchaser that accumulates
among consumer groups for                                                                                         45 days arrears for purchases made after July 1, 1998
all natural monopoly services                                            A   report  has  been  issued  to  the  and/or fails to comply with a schedule agreed between
(Government Resolution No.                                               Govemment-and published-on the amounts  them for the liquidation of arrears relating to products
389   "On   tbe   Gradual                                               of dividends on federally-owned shares in  and services provided prior to July 1, 1998. (Failure to
Reduction    of    Cross-                                                infrastructure utilities not transferred to the  reach agreement on such a schedule within 60 days will
Subsidization in Sectors of                                              federal budget. Article 105 of the 1998  be grounds for applying these procedures.); and
Natural Monopolies").                                                    Budget Law and Presidential Decree No.
396 of April 16, 1998 are intended to  (ii) by October 1, 1998, the Govemment will develop
On   April   28,   1997                                                  eliminate such exemptions; a draft law has  and announce a new procedure goveming settlements by
Presidential Decree No. 426                                              been prepared to implement Article 105.  non-budget sector organizations for purchases of gas,
'On Fundamental Principles                                                                                        heat and electricity. This procedure will be applicable
of Stucnral  Refonrs  in                                                 The Govemment has required (Govemment  effective November 1, 1998 to any such organization
Sectors    of      Natural                                               directive No. 968-r of July 17, 1998) that,  that has 30 days' or more of arrears. It would give the
Monopolies" was issued as                                                starting with the financial accounts for  right to any participant in the supply chain to require
outdined in the Concept Paper                                            1998, the  consolidated  IAS  financial  that such an organization establish  and  maintain
'On Developing Plans for                                                 accounts of Gazprom, RAO UESR, and  unconditional letters of credit in favor of the relevant
Structural Reforms of Natural                                            Transneft, and, starting with the financial  escrow account to cover payments for 30 days' worth of
Monopolies" submined to the                                              accounts for 1999, the Railways, are to be  purchases. This requirement could remain in effect for a
Govemment on March 26,                                                   audited and published annually by June 30  reasonable time period (to be defined within the
1997. The decree instruced                                              of the following year by independent  procedure).
the Goverment to approve a                                               qualified  auditors in  accordance  with
detiled       medium-term                                                intemational auditing standards.         The Govemment will issue a formal decision requiring
restructuring program  to be                                                                                      all consumers of gas, heat, and electricity to make
adopted by  a govemment                                                 The Govemment has required (Govenmnent  payments for their purchases of gas, heat, and electricity
resolution by June 30, 1997.                                             Resolution No. 786 of July 17, 1998) that  into escrow accounts established jointly by producers,
VAT be calculated and collected on an  transponers, distributors, and any other entities in the
accrual basis.                           supply chain, and has fumished a report to the Bank
demonstrdting it has taken all measures necessary on its



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Progmam Matrix
Infrastructure Monopoly Reform - Page 2
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOUES
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board    Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
ApprovalofSALI                                                                  of SAL3                        of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1999)          Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30. 1999)
The   Government   has   simplified  pat for the implementation of such decision.
(Government Resolution No. 789 of July
17, 1998) the procedures for termination or
limitation of electricity, heat, and gas
supplies to organizations and consumers in
the event of failure to pay for fuel and
energy resources supplied.
By July 31, 1998, the Government will
issue a Resolution that establishes an inter-
agency commission that coordinates and
oversees refonss, including development of
measures and timetable of actions, for the
horizontal  and   vertical  competitive
restructuring   of   key   infrastructure
monopolies. This will cover the electric
power,    natural    gas,   railroads,
telecommunications and oil transport
.._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _. _ _ _   sectors.
The Government is ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the regulatory agencies for energy (FEC). transport (FSNMT), and telecommunications (FSRNMC).
I. Electric PowerSector Program
To  make  major  In the period up to April 30,  The Government introduced a two-block tariff  The Federal Energy Commission (Directive  By September 1, 1998. the Federal Energy Commission  By January 1, 1999 the Government will issue a
progress  towards  1997. the Govesmment took  for househoild electricity consumption that is  17/6, April  17,  1998)  has  adopted  to develop pricing methodology and issue guidelines for  Resolution requiring non-discriminatory access
creating an electric  steps to  ensure  that the  differentiated by levels of consumption; this  dispatching guidelines and procedures in  the network services provided by AO Energos. Costs  to transmission and distribution services and to
power sector with  representative   group   of  policy is based upon recommendations from  the electricity sector to provide for the  associated with non-core activities should be accounted  direct the Federal Energy  Commission  to
divermified        govenment officials on the  the FEC dated April 25, 1997. Implementation  minimization of costs of energy supply to  for separately and not be included in costs used to  develop regulatory guidelines and access rules
ownership and open  Board of RAO UESR have  has been undertaken in most regions.         the wholesale electricity market.       establish the regulated price.                     by June 30, 1999.
to     competitive  clear    instructions    to
forces,            implement    govemmental  The  Government  established  an  Inter-  Dispatching   guidelines   have   been  By October 1, 1998, RAO UESR, will solicit offers  Offers from the private sector for participation in
policies in the electric power  Ministerial working group to ensure that its  implemented  in at least one regional  from the private sector for participation in Energos. The  Energos would be made to RAO UESR by
setor.                     reform agenda for the power sector would be  electricity grid.                     bidders would be permitted to make a variety of offers,  January 1, 1999.
pursued.   Improvements  in   corporate                                          including, but not limited to, equity  investments,
govemance were punctuated during the Annual  A   comprehensive  Wholesale  Market  management  contracts,  concession   or  leasing  RAO UESR would review  these offers and
General Meeting of the shareholders of RAO  Agreement is currently being drafted.  anrangements.                                    negotiate Term Sheets by March 1, 1999.
UESR on May 28, 1997, when the leadership
for the reform agenda was established.    By August 1, 1998, RAO  UESR will  A  list of Energos that will be  available  for  An independent evaluation of these offers will
publicly  announce  its  intention  of  consideration, along with a package of relevant  beundertakenbyApril 1, 1999.
The Government has created an Independent  increasing private sector participation in  technical and financial information will be issued by
Financial Operator (IFO) to  establish  a  Energos in which UESR has an equity  October 1, 1998, enabling due diligence to take place.    Final decisions on these offers would be made
competitive wholesale electricity market under  stake                                                                               by RAO UESR no later than Junes, 1999. and
FEC Protocol #97 dated June 25, 1997. It is in                                    By October 1, 1998, the Government, through its  would result in private sector participation in at
the process of establishing a Supervisory  By August 1, 1998, the Govemment will  representatives on the Board of RAO UESR, will direct  least ten Energos.
Council for the Wholesale Market composed of  issue a Resolution in which RAO UESR  RAO UESR management to issue corporate guidelines
representatives of market participants (with no  will be required to establish separate  requiring the change in dispatch rules with a goal of  By March 31, 1999, RAO UESR will issue



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Infrastructure Monopoly Refonn - Page 3
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOUES
Pocy Ojctive        Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                of SAL3                         of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)         Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
participant having a dominant position). The  accounts fbr generation and transmission  decreasing operating costs.                 guidelines to increase the role of the Uniform
composition of the Supervisory Council will be  (including   dispatch)  for  regulatory                                             Dispatch Units in providing economic dispatch
frnalized by the end of February, 199S.   purposes. The Resolution will direct the  By December 1, 199S, the Federal Energy Commission  and settlements.
Federal Energy Commission:             to develop pricing methodology and issue guidelines for
Industrial customers that clear their arrears and  (i) by September 1, 1998, to develop  transmission and dispatch services provided by RAO   By  June  30,  1999, the  Federal Energy
pay cash in advance receive electricity at an  pricing methodology and issue guidelines  UESR.                                      Commission to develop regulatory guidelines
economically efficient price. In June 1997,  for the network services provided by AO                                                and access rules ensuring non-discriminatory
RAO UESR announced that, as of July 1997, it  Energos;                            By December 31, 1998, the Government will complete  access to transmission and distribution services.
would accept cash payments only (eliminating  (ii) by December 1, 1998, to develop  the establishment of the National Energy Market
barter, promissory notes and limited use of  pricing methodology and issue guidelines  (NEM), a non-commercial partnership involving all  By June 30, 1999, the Government will instruct
mutual settlements). Improvements have been  for transmission  and dispatch services  power plants, AO Energos and large industrial users  its representatives on the Board of Directors of
gradual (as existing barter agreements had to be  provided by RAO UESR.           operating in the federal wholesale power market.  RAO UESR to seek adoption by RAO UESR of
respected) but significant. Cash payments for  The same Resolution will require that each                                           a plan for establishing a sufficient number of
RAO UESR transmission services have nearly  AO Energo will establish separate accounts                                              independent generation companies to enable
doubled between June and September 1997.  for generation, trmnsmission (lines used                                                  effective competition.
This enabled RAO UESR to fully pay its tax  exclusively for transmission of bulk power)
obligations for 1997, and become current with  and distribution for regulatory purposes.                                            The plan will provide for these generation
its salary payments to staff.                                                                                                       companies to be established as legal subsidiaries
of RAO UESR, each with an initial comparable
The  FEC  has made  public  preliminary                                                                                             competitive position, by December 31, 1999.
wholesale market agreements under FEC
Protocol #104, dated August 29, 1997. These
contractual agreements specify the duties and
responsibilities of current partcipants in the'
competitive Wholesale Market, and were
issued by the IFO in September, 1997. Direct
agreements between energy producera and
consumers have also been drafted and will be
approved by the FEC by end-November, 1997.
Two generation companies and four customers
are currently operaing in the Wholesale
Market and expansion is actively being
pursued.
The FEC has submitted a letter to the
Govemment,  dated  August  20,  1997,
ariculating  the  general  principles  for
commaercial licensing of participants in the
wholesale power market The Govenmuent has
submitted a draft law on licensing to the Duma,
including amendments with regard to licensing
for activities in the wholesale power (capacity)
market and services for its operations. When
the law is approved, the Govemment will issue



Attachment S: Policy Refonna Program Matrix
Infrastructure Monopoly Reform - Page 4
____________                                        REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOUES
Policy Obive        Actions Taken For Board    Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taiken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Bc Taien Prior to Third Tranche
Aroval of SALI                                                                  of SAL3                        of SAL3 (estimated December 31. 1998)          Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
a Resolution giving the FEC the exclusive right
to issue licenses for activities in the wholesale
power (capacity) market to participants in the
power marke
The Governmtent has outlined general pricing
principles and procedures for encouraging
efficient production and usage of elecric
power, and these will continue to hc refined
and made more detailcd.
The Government passed Resolution No. 1231
on September 26, 1997 providing annual
tarmges for the reduction of cross-subsidies in
electricity consumption, ending with its
elimination by mid-2000. The fiust steps have
been taken this year resulting in price increases
.______________            in most regions.
111. Natural Ga Sector Program
To        promote                              In accordance with Government Resolution  The Federal Energy Commission (Directive  RAO Gazprom will reorganize its regional transmission  By  July  1, 1999, the  Federal Energy
efficiency  in  the                            #987,1997, the Anti-Monopoly Commitee has  12/5) has reduced cross-subsidization in  operations  into  a single  integrated  transmission  Commission will introduce differentiated and
natl gas industry.                             registered RAO  Gazprom  as an economic  natural gas (and the need for budget  enterprise or into a number of transmission enterprises  separate prices for gas production, transmission.
achieve    _mte                                entity controlling more than 35%  of its  subsidies for gas consumed by households)  solely being responsible for gas transmission services,  and supply (delivery) services fully reflective of
transparency   and                             corresponding market pursuant to the law 'On  by increasing the wholesale price of gas for  established in compliance with the Civil Code and based  a revised methodology agreed upon with the
accountability in the                          Compcition and Restiction of Monopoly  household use (net of gas excise tax) to 76  on major transmission cotridors.                Bank.
operadons      of                              Activities in Commodity Markets".          percent of the industrial wholesale price.
Gazprom,      and                                                                                                                 RAO Gazprom  will establish separate management,  By July 31. 1999, the FEC will issue a resolution
faciitate  pipeline                            The  Ministry  of Fuel and  Energy  has  The    Govenunent   has   instructed  separate accounts based on intemational accounting  providing that prices charged to independent gas
access         for                             established a group within the Ministry to  (Govemment directive No. 952-r of July  standards, and separate cost/profit responsibility for the  producers and gas delivery companies for the
ndependent    gas                              review further stuctural changes necessary to  16,  1998)  the   Board  of  State  new  transmission  enterprise  or enterprises, the  use of the transmission system of RAO Gazprom
producem incliding                             improve the efficiency of natural gas supply.    Representatives of RAO Gazprom to seek  production  enterprises, and  its gas  wholesaling  are equivalent to tariffs which are charged to
those   who    re                                                                         to reorganize, by December 31, 1998, the  enterprise or enterprises.                      Mezhregiongaz for the same services.
urrently flaring gas.                          Te Ministry of Economy has prepared a draft  existing regional transmission operations of
Discussion Paper (October 14, 1997) outlining  RAO Gazprom into a single transmission  The Government will establish a revised system of gas
general pricing principles and procedures to  enterprise or a number of enterprises, based  excise taxes which  applies the production  rent
encourage efficient production and usage of  on major transmission  corridors, such  component of the tax at the level of monopoly
natura gas. The draft principles also provide  enterprise or enterprises to be in compliance  producers, including producers which are part of the
tha  until a competitive market for gas  with the Civil Code.                     Gazprom  system, Yakutskgazprom, Noiiskgazprom,
production is introduced, wholesale gas prices                                    and Sakhaintmerneftegaz, without reducing Federal tax
will be  gulated: (a) at the city gate, with  A drft Law bas been submitted to the  revenue.
tariffs of gas transmision set separately: or (b)  Duma requiring to move gas excises to an
as a combination of well-head prices nd gas  accrnus basis.                       By August 31, 1998, the FEC will issue revised inteim
transmission prices, each set separatey. The                                      Regulations on  state  regulation  of differentiated
FEC has issued Resolution No. 119/6, dated  By August 1, 199., the Government will  wholesale prices for natul gas The Regulations will _



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matix
Infrastructure Monopoly Reform - Page 5
Rl .FORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOUES
Policy O)jecdve      Acttons Taken For Bonrd     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Acdons Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                    of SAL3                         of SAL3 (estimated December 31. 1998)           Reease of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
October 31. 1997 establishing the procedures  issue a decision requiring Gazprom  to  incorporate the principles that prices should: (i) ensure
for regulating  wholesale gas prices. The  operate  the  company's  transmission,  that supplying  enterprises can  recover prudently
Ministry of Fuel and Energy has initiated  production and supply enterprises will  incurred costs of service from customers, including a
negotiations with the firm  of consultants  operate as separate costsprofit centers with  reasonable retum  on capital; (ii) encourage efficient
selected to carry out a World Bank-financed  sepamte management teams and their own  operations at all levels in the supply chain, and (iii)
Gas Pricing Study starting November 4, 1997,  accounts based en intemational accounting  incorporate the principle that tariffs should fully reflect
which will assist the Government to define the  and  audit standards. The transmission  differences in costs of service among different customer
detailed pricing methodology and procedures  enterprise(s)  will  only  provide  gas  classes and geographic egions. In order to lessen the
to be applied in setting gas prices at various  transmission services.               shock of transition to full cost-reflective tariffs, it is
levels in the gas supply chain.                                                      expected that these prices would incorporate increased
By July 31, 199X, the Govemment will  regional differentiation ofwholesale prices.
In  August  1997  the  Federal  Energy  adopt a Resolution that provides for the
Commission published temporary rules and  elimination of state regulation of prices on  By August 31, 1998, the FEC will approve and make
procedure for setting differendated wholesale  gas sold by gas-producing organizations not  public a revised methodology for determining service
prices for natural gas.                     affiliated with RAO Gazprom.             tariffs (including local transportation tariffs) for gas
FEC Resolution 110 of September 26, 1997,                                            distribution  companies.  The  methodology  (and
provides that, effective Dccember 1, 1997, the                                       subsequent recommendations)  will be  based  on
regional wholesale natural gas price differential                                    principles that prices should (i) ensure that distribution
between the minimum and maximum price will                                           companies can recover prudently incurred costs of
be increased from  the cunrent level of 12                                           service from customers, including a reasonable retum on
percent to at least 25 percent                                                       capital; (ii) encourage efficient operations on the part of
the distribution companies; and (iii) fully reflect
In Resolution No. 858 of July 14, 1997, the                                          differences in costs of service among different customer
Government adopted procedures for granting                                           classes. The FEC, in cooperation with the RECs, will
access by independent producers of gas to the                                        also make public, for each distribution company, both
pipelines of RAO Gazprom.                                                            the calculated cost-based prices and the actual prices for
each customer group (including the level of cross-
In Resolution No. 1269 ofSeptember 30, 1997,                                         subsidies).
the Govemment approved a regulation
outlining the responsibilities and operatng                                          By September 30, 199S, dte FEC will issue and make
procedures for the Inter-Branch Commission                                           public recommendations for setting retail prices for
which waS formed under Resolution 858 to                                             different customer groups.
review issues relaed to access by independent
producers.                                                                           By September 30, 1998 the Govemment will prepare,
adopt and implement "Rules of Gas Supply' that
address, inter alia, the rights and raponsibilities of gas
producers independent of RAO Gazprom and the rules
of supply to household customers.
By September 30, 1998, the Govemment will publish a
review for public comment of the effectiveness of
Resolution 858 (on providing access to the gas
transmission networks by independent gas producers) in
increasing  the market share of independent gas



Attachment 5: Policy Refomna Program Matrix
Infrastructure Monopoly Reform - Page 6
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOLIES                                                          _
Policy Objve        Actions Taken For Board    Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval ofSALI                                                                 of SAL3                         of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)         Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
producers. The review of the effectiveness of Resolution
858 (on providing access to the gas transmission
networks by independent gas producers) in increasing
the market share of independent gas producers, carried
out by independent consultants, shall include (i)
comparative statistical data with respect to growth ova
the preceding year in terms of market shares, deliveries,
and new contracts for independent producers; (ii) a
comparison of the prices paid to independent producers
relative to the regulated city-gate prices; and, (iii) a
survey of at least 10 independent producers, including
both participants and non-participants, to obtain their
assessments of the strengths and weaknesses of the
program.
Based on the review (and public comments thereon), the
Government will, by October 31, 1998, adopt and
implement a Resolution which will improve the
effectiveness of the rules and procedures in promoting
non-discriminatory access by independent producers
and suppliers, and will extend the access rights to allow
non-discriminatory access by foreign producers of gas
to Russian markets.
By November 1, 1998, the FEC will develop model
contracts  for transactions  between  gas  delivery
organizations and gas transmission companies for
transportation services, issue a resolution directing that
these contracts will apply to all transactions effective
January 1, 1999, and work with the govemment to
ensure the adoption of any necessary legislative basis
for this resolution.
By November 30, 1998, prices based on the new interim
Regulations on state regulation of differentiated
wholesale prices for natural gas will be announced, and
applied effective January 1, 1999.
By November 30, 1998, the Govemment will approve a
methodology for setting separate prices for gas
production, transmission and supply (delivery) services
which will supersede the interim Regulations as a basis
for determining wholesale gas prices. The methodology
will reflect the pricing principles outlined above with



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Infrastructure Monopoly Reforrn - Page 7
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOLIES
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board    Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                of SAL3                         of SAL3 (estimated December 31. 1998)         Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
respect to the interim Regulations.
By December 31, 1998, introducc prices for the non-
residential customers of gas distribution companies
based on the revised methodology for determining
service tariffs (including local transportation tariffs) for
gas distribution companies and recommendations for
setting retail prices for different customer groups
By December 31, 1998, the Govenmnent will establish a
revised system for gas excise taxes which applies the
production rent component of excise at the level of
monopoly producers, without reducing Federal tax
revenue. The production rent component would be: (i)
applied at a uniform level to all volumes entering the
main transmission network from the Gaxprom system at
each major access hub or, for other monopoly
producers, at the wellhead; (ii) differentiated to reflect
the weighted average production cost of gas at each of
the major access hubs/wellheads. and (iii) remitted by
gas wholesalers.
The FEC will continue the process of delegating the power to implement the regulation of gas distribution tariffs and gas prices for final consumers to the
regional energy commissions (RECs), where such regulation follows pricing principils and procedures prepared by the FEC. The RECs to which authority
will be delegated will have met the following criteria as set out by the FEC: (i) appropriate legal basis for implementing the regulations in question; (ii)
adequate professional staffing; (iii) operational rules approved by the FEC; (iv) a chairperson approved by the FEC; and (v) an established panel of
independent experts for advice and comment,
IV. Oil Sector Program
To   iniprove  the                             On July 8, 1997, President Yeltsin issued  In late 1997, the FEC published its initial  After taking into account the views of interested parties,  Revised crude oil transportation tariffs will be
efficiency  of  oil                            decree No. 694 "On Production Sharing  views on the principles on the methodology  the FEC will issue by September 15, 1998 a resolution  applied effective January 1, 1999.
trmtsport  throug                              Agreements (PSAsr  ensuring  rights and  for setting regulated crude oil transportation  which provides for revised crude oil transportation
regttatory  reform,                            benefits  of  the  Russian  Federationi in  tariffs on Transneft's pipeline system. By  tariffs which will be applied effective January 1, 1999.   The Govemment will submit a draft oil pipeline
ensuring  equitable                            implementing PSAs. In accordance withl the  July 31, 1998, the FEC will publish for                                                  law to the Duma with a view to enactment by
access to pipelines,                           Federal Law 'On Sites of Natural Resources  comment its revised proposals on this  The Government will submit to the Duma, with a view  April 30, 1999. This comprehensive law will
and   creating   a                             Deposits Entitled for Use under PSAs" there  methodology,  incorporating  principles  to enactment by November 30, 1998, the  law  include,  inter  alia. provisions  for  non-
favorable                                      are seven sites that can be developed in  which will (i) ensure that Transneft can  "Introduction of Changes and Additions to Legislative  discriminatory access and tariffs, and limitations
investnent climate                             accordance with PSAs. The sites include five  recover prudently incurred costs of service  Acts of the Russian Federation ensuing from the Federal  on integration of ownership of assets in oil trunk
oil and gas fields, one iron ore deposit and one  from shippers, including a reasonable return  Law On Production Sharing Agreements" together with  transmission with ownership of assets in other
gold  mine. By  December 1, 1997, the  on investment; (ii) encourage efficient  other  related  enabling  legislation.  This  related  oil sector activities. It will be enacted prior to the
Govenmment will submit to the Duma a draft  operations, and (iii) be based on costs so  legislation will incorporate provisions directed at: (i)  Govemment proceeding with the privatization of
Law on Expansion of PSAs to additional areas.  that the  tariffs  should  fully  reflect  preventing any undue restriction on the eligibility of oil  Transnefl's core business assets.
differences in costs of service.       developed under PSA arrangements; (ii) constraining
The Government has begun to put into place a                                      excessive limitation on access to international goods and  New oil pipeline legislation has been adopted
market-based    (nondiscredonaty    and  Access by oil producers to the oil pipeline  services, technology, and professional experience; and  and entered into force.
_transparent)  system  for  access  to  oil  network now  contingcnt on compliance  (iii) avoiding penalization of any group of investors.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Infrastructure Monopoly Reform - Page a
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOUES
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board    Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                of SAL3                         of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 199S)         Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
transportation capacity in the Novorosiisk and  with agreements to clear outstanding tax
other constrained pipelines. A new regime has  arrears (see Fiscal Management reforms).    By November 30Q  1998, the Ministry of Fuel and
been implemented through Presidential Decree                                      Energy will have signed a contract with an independent,
No. # 693 of July 8, 1997 and Govemment                                           reputable, experienced consulting firm selected after an
Resolution # 1130, issued on September 2,                                         intemational competition to conduct and publish a
1997, in which access is allocated in proportion                                  comprehensive operational audit of Transneft to assist
to total production. This regime will be                                          the company in improving its operational efficiency.
effective throughout 1998. However, oil
producers will have the right to trade access                                     The proposed Law on the Introduction of Changes and
rights.                                                                           Additions to Legislative Acts of the Russian Federation
ensuing from the Federal Law On Production Sharing
All resolutions  and  directives  covering                                        Agreements and the implementation of regulations
programs of export of oil and oil products for                                    relating to the Law On Production Sharing Agreements
State needs were eliminated on March 16,                                          have been enacted and entered into force.
1997. except for those under Government
Rcsolutions #579 of May 14, 1996, #208 of
February 28, 1996, and #736 of June 24, 1996.
Under Presidential Decree 693 of July 8 and
Government Resolution #988 of August 7, the
government  abolished  these  oil  export
programs effective October 1, 1997.
V. Rallway Sector Program
To        improve                              In the April 28, 1997 Presidential Decree No.  The Government approved (Government  By September 1, 1998, separate cost accounting will be  By June 30, 1999, rail freight tariffs will be
efficiency within the                          426, the Governmcnt took actions to set forth  Resolution No. 448 dated May 15, 1998) a  introduced and separate income statements and balance  determined uniformly on a cost-basis for all
railway    system,                             the main thrust of structural reform  in the  Concept for Structural Reform of Federal  sheets prepared for long distance passenger traffic,  commodities.
ensure  reasonable                             railway sector. The decree set forth a staged  Railway Transport which broadly outlines  commuter rail traffic and freight traffic within MPS.
tariffs, and  create                           plan of restructuring over a three year period.  plans for separating passenger and freight
the    basis   for                             With respect to  improving  the railway's  services and identifies major assets to be  By September 1, 1998, the Govemment will develop
privatization  of                              competitive market structure, the following  allocated to each business.           and begin to implement a schedule for the privatization
certain sevices.                               measures were included on the agenda for                                           of companies engaged in rolling stock rehabilitation and
1997: (a) to introduce a new procedure of  The Govemment has agreed to develop  manufacturing of spare parts and other railway-related
Govemment regulation of freight tariffs that  proposals on  budget subsidization  of  items, as well as general construction companies.
would take into account pattems and volume of  railway passenger traffic. It was also agreed
traffic,  increases  in  labor  productivity,  that the remaining federal privileges on the  By September 30, 1998, the Govemment will issue a
restructuring and cost-cutting measures, etc.;  fares of individual passenger categories are  Resolution   conferring   on   regional   railway
(b)  to  phase-out  cross-subsidization  of  to be financed from the federal budget. In  administrations the sole right, effective January 1, 1999,
passenger losses by freight customers and  the 1998 budget, a sum of Rb 450 million is  to fix tariffs for commuter rail services. The Resolution
provide compensation for passenger losses in  included  for Federal compensation  of  will also stipulate that, in cases where the concemed
Federal and local budgets as appropriate; (c) to  intercity passenger losses.     municipalities  desire  lower  tarifth  than  those
lower freight tariffs; (d) to separate unused                                     representing full cost recovery, they will pay at least 50
facilities and divest these and other ancillary  For most products, preferential tariffs  % of the resulting operating losses.
activities, (e) to create conditions for the  expired on December 31, 1997. MPS has
development of competition in the rail services  drafted   regulations   providing   for  By October 1, 1998, the Govemment will prepare a



Attachment 5: Policy Reformn Program Matrix
Infrastrueture Monopoty Reforn - Page 9
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOLIES                                                         ______________
Policy Objective     Actios Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Boad Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                of SAL3                         of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)         Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
market that would provide equal access to rail elimination of most of the remaining  feasibility study for establishing long- and short-haul
infrastructure and repair facilities to different  preferential tariffs.          passenger service companies.
owners of rolling stock; and (f) to complete the
establishment of the  Federal Service  to  FSNMT adopted (Directive 12/1 of April  By November 30, 1998, MPS will submit a report to the
Regulate Natural Monopolies in Transport  14, 1998) regulations limiting  freight  Government listing: (i) the social and ancillary assets,
(FSNMT).                                  railway tariff adjustments to increases in the  together with their book value and current owners,
industrial producer price index less 3  remaining on the books of railways which also could be
The head ofthe FSNMT was appointed.       percentage points on an annualized basis  divested if recipients agreed to accept the financial
throughout the year.                   responsibility for their operations; (ii) the social and
On September 30, 1997, the Govenmuent                                             ancillary assets, together with their book values and
issued a resolution reducing average rates for  Government Resolution No. 338 of March  current owners, that MPS has determined should not be
freight (total revenues  divided  by  ton-  21, 1998 approves a list ofrailway transport  divested within the next five years, together with a
kilometers) by 5 percent compared to rates  ancillary services for divestiture. A list of  rationale for this determination.
effective in September 1, 1997.           social assets has been approved by MPS
Several other freight rate reductions were  Letter No. K-4687 of May 20, 1998.  By December 1, 1998, the first two long- and short-haul
introduced as of July 1, 1997 including (a)  Govenmment Directives Nos. 424 and 425  passenger service companies shall be established.
reductions on specific commodities at specific  transfer some social assets to municipalities.
rates,assetforthinaJune 13, 1997 minutes of                                       By December 31, 1998, rail freight tariffs will be
a meeting held by First Deputy Prime Minister  By July 30, 1998, MPS will provide the  adjusted to eliminate any discrimination between
Nemtsov with Deputy Ministers of MOE, MOF  Govermnent with the book value and  domestic and export rates.
and MPS; and, (b) on new teafic (against  current railway  ownership  of  assets
previous year totals for individual shippers)  identified in the list it submitted to the  By December 31, 1998, MPS  will provide the
provided the increase is of certain volume  Goveimnent on April 30, 1998, together  Govemment with an action plan for divesting the social
(3000 tons), and on existing traffic to shippers  with a timetable for their divestiture.  and ancillary assets listed included in the April 30. 1998
relative to the time of downpayment.                                              list and a timetable for divesting the assets remaining on
the books of railways which also could be divested if
To  enhance  transparency  regarding  the                                         recipients agreed to accept the financial responsibility
provision of preferential tariffs and to clarify                                  for their operations.
the framework under which regional railways
can offer discounts to shippers, and in
compliance with clause 4 of Govenmment
Resolution #410 of April 8, 1997, the FSNMT
issued   regulations   and   methodologies
governing railway tariffs, including discounts
and preferential taiffs.
The Govemmment is establishing general pricing
principles and procedures that will help to
encourage efficient provision and usage of
railway  services.  In  compliance  with
Government Reslution #410 of April 8, 1997,
an order dated May 14, 1997 was jointly issued
by the Ministry of Railways and Ministry of
Economy that outlines a methodology for  __..



Attachment S: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Infrastructur Monopoly Reform - Page 10
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOUES
Policy O   ve       Actions Taken For Board    Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                of SAL3                        of SAL3 (estimated December 31. 1998)          Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
regulating railway freight tariffs.
Resolution #410 also ordered that changes in
railway tariffs and fee rates shall not exceed the
index of wholesale prices for industrial goods
producers across the Russian Federation in the
respective period. This measure is evidence
that the Govermnent is coming to grips with
the problem that rail rates have risen faster than
inflation. However, in order to ensure that the
effects of this measure are long-lasting, future
indexation should not be automatic as it has in
the past since there is agreement that freight
rates can be further reduced. As it may be
difficult to evaluate, on a timely basis,
submissions by NIPS of cost data justifying
tariff increases, a simpler approach under
consideration is to permit automatic indexing
of freight rates to the wholesale industrial price
index and promote additional reductions on the
overall levels. Specifically, the FSNMT is
considering limiting the overall increase of
average freight mtes in 1998 to the wholesale
price index minus 3 percentage poinmts, to be
measured on a quarterly basis. i.e. 0.75% per
quarter.
The present pricing methodology mentions the
need to take into account railway restructuring
plans and cost-reduction measures, but does
not explicidy tie the railways to any specific
restructuring plan. In the longer terns, it is
anticipated that the railways will restructure in
a way that would make the industry more
competitive and commercial. Thus, in time, it
is hoped tariff regulation of freight traffic
would be based more on an exception basis,
wher there is little competition or a clear
possibility for abuse of monopoly power. In the
meantime. however, as passenger losses are
shifted to the budget, manufacturing and social
assets divested and other cost-cutting measure
introduced, it is anticipated that there should be
additional decreases in the minimum freight



Attcahnist 5: Policy Reforma Program Matx
Infrastructufe Monopoly Reota. -Page 11
____________ ______________           REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOUES
Poky Objeive        Actions Taken For Board    Actons Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Appxoval ofSALI                                                                 of SAL3                         of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)         Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30,1999)
tariff rates.
Cross-subsidies of passenger losses through
freight rates ae being phased out by a
combination of measures including: raising
passenger fres; devolving suburban services to
municipal and regional Govemments and
ensuring that losses on these services are
compensated through budgets of subjects of the
Federation as appropriate; by separating
passenger from freight services and taking
measures to cut costs where appropriate; by
compensating  intercity  passenger  losses
through the Federal budget and/or eliminating
remaining federal privileges on the fares of
individual passenger categories. On September
15, 1997 the Government issued Resolution
No. 389, which. effective that day, increased
intercity passenger rates by 10 percent;
destinations to the Baltics and CIS countries
were increased 65.                                                                                                                 .



Attachment 5: Policy Refonns Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 1
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation |  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                      of SAL3                   Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)  Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
. Privatization
To  increase  the                                                                              On July  20, 1998, a special Policy
efriciency  in the                                                                             Statement was issued by the Chairman of
use   of   assets                                                                              the Government of the Russian Federation,
employed in firms                                                                              which wNill be published widely in the
and     5timulate                                                                              intemational  media,  that  states  the
investment so as to                                                                            Government's commitment to expand and
resume  economic                                                                               accelerate significantly  the process of
growth and create                                                                              transparent and competitive privatization of
jobs,   and   to                                                                                Russian enterprises in the process of
engender revenues                                                                              implementing the 1998-99 privatization
for   the   state                                                                              programn. This  will  be  accomplished
budgeL                                                                                         through case-by-case privatization of the
largest enterprises in accordance with
Govemment Resolutions 363 and 564 of
1997, and through (i) the significant
reduction in the number of firms currently
denoted as "strategic" and (ii) their
privatization.
a. Privatization  On April I and May 12, 1997, The Ministry for State Property (MSP, formerly GKI)  Financial Advisors' pre-sale preparation  Beginning July 31, 1998, the following ten tenders  By the end of each quarter following July 31,
of       Large  the   Government   issued  announced a change in the composition of the finrs  work for Kama Pulp and Paper and Russkii  will be offered on intemational markets before  1998-i.e., September 30, 1998, December 31,
Enterprises     Resolutions No. 363 ("On the  to participate in the 4-firm  pilot Case by Case  Dizel undernvay, but experiencing delays.  December 31, 199S, if such dates are determined  1998, March 30, 1999, June 30, 1999,
Procedure   Governing  the  Privatization  Program, as identified  in  earlier  Tenders expected  early  autumn  1998.  on advice of independent financial advisors as most  September 30, 1999, and December 31, 1999-
Implementation  of Case-by-  Government Resolutions Nos. 363 and 564, and GKI  Government suspended privatization of  desirable based on market conditions: Rosneft,  at least 7 firms listed on the draft Privatization
Case Privatization ProjectS")  Directive No. 356-r due to the fact that (i)  Domodedovo Airlines and Domodedovo  Sviazinvest, SIBUR, LUKOil, Cheliabinskinfom.,  Program issued by the Govemment on April
and  No.  564  ("On  the  Domodedovo  Production  Association  for Civil  Aeroservice due to regional authorities'  Etectrosviaz  (Moscow   Oblast),  Novosibirsk  21, 1998 shall be brought to point of sale
Introduction of Changes in  Aviation is to be split into three entities and (ii)  objections.                       Electrode  Plant, Slavnek, NORSI-Oil, RAO   within the subsequent six months, if such dates
Resolution No. 363 of the  Pulkovo Airlines and Rosgosstrakh are no longer                                          UESR.                                         are deterntined on advice of independent
Govemment of the Russian  under consideration to be included in the CBC   The  1998  program  will expand  and                                                    financial advisors as most desirable based on
Federation Dated April 1, 1997  pmgram (at least not in 1997). On July 31, 1997, GKI  accelerate the process of transparent and  By August 31, 1998, the Ministry of State Property  market conditions.
'On the Procedure Goveming  Directive 670-R specified that the 4 participant firms  competitive Case-by-Case privatization.  and the Russian Federal Property Fund will hold
th  Implementation of Case-  are:  Domodedovo   Aeroservice,  Domodedovo                                            competitive bids and select 9 to II independent
by-Case Privatization Projects'  Airlines, Kamna Pulp and Paper, and Russkii Dizel.  On July 7, 1998 the Ministry of State  financial advisors  from  among  experienced,
i),  respectively,  specifying                                               Property issued an ordinance establishing a  reputable intemational investment institutions. The
roles  and  implementation  The above changes, in part, contributed to the  list of 15 enterprises that are part of the  independent financial advisors will be engaged to
procedures for case-by-case  inability to meet the June 30, 1997 progrwm date for  drmft State Privatization Program and are to  (i) carry out pre-sale preparation of the largest
pnvatiztion requirng them to  inviting financial advisors to submit bids to assist  be privatized according to the case-by-case  Russian enterprises, including but not limited to
be fully open and competitive  with the privatization of the four firms and the  procedures  specified  in  Govenmtent  those denoted in the draft Privatization Program.
(including through equal and  August 31, 1997 deadline for the tender committees  Resolutions 363 and 564 of 1997. The  and (ii) place shares of these enterprises on world
open access to domestic and  to issue tenders. Following consultation with the  ordinance  ivll establish a schedule for  markets  in  accordance  with   Govemment
foreign  buyers), and  using  World Bank. which is supporting (through the PIAL  privatizing these enterprises such that they  Resolutions 363 and 564 of 1997. These advisors
openly  and   competitively  loan) the technical assistance for completing 3 of the  will be offered for sale not later than  will, among other things: audit and appraise the
dected,       intemationally  4 pilot transactions, MSP issued in correspondence  December 31, 1998, if such dates are  enterprises; suggest the likely market price of the
reputable financial advisors. dated October 10, 13, and 22, 1997, a timeline that  determined  on  advice of independent  transaction;    recommend    any    required
iThe privatiaatons are to be  specifies the complete timetable of actions to be taken  financial advisors as most desirable based  organirationalomanagerial restructuring prior to



Attachment S: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 2
_.__ __.__ ._F PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
.___   Approval of SAL I                                                                     of SAI3                   Relcase of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)  Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
widely advertised domestically  for all 4 firms. For the 3 transactions receiving  on market conditions. The percentage of  sale; work out the optimal privatization scheme,
and          internationally,  financial support from the World Bank, the key  equity offered  will bc determined  in  including the percentage of equity to be offered;
Enterpises will be valued at  points of this timetable are: (i) 'Bidding Package"  consultation with independent financial  and ensure that bids will be welcomed from all
market prices or, if they are not  (Letter of Invitation + Termns of Reference + Standard  advisors. These enterprises are:  physical and legal persons and foreign investors
traded, based  on  standard  Contract) to be sent to short-listed Financial Advisors  I. OAO  Orenburg Oil JSC  (Orenburg  eligible under Russian law.
business valuation procedures.  (FAs) by the following dates: Kama Pulp and Paper:  oblast);
Financial advisors  will be  August 22, 1997, Domodedovo Airlines: August 28, 2. OAO "Kovrovo Electric Machine Plant"  By the end of each quarter following July 31,
reputable, and valuation will be  1997. and Russkii Dizel: October 24, 1997; (ii)  (Vladimir oblast);               1998-i.e., Scptember 30, 1998, December 31,
done based on international  Negotiations to commence with the selected FAs by  3. OAO Western-Siberian Iron &  Steel  1998, March 30, 1999, June 30, 1999, September
standards.                  the following dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: October  Factory (Kemerovo Oblast);           30, 1999, and December 31, 1999-at least 7 firms
23. 1997 and Domodedovo Airlines: October 22.  4. OAO 'Stupino Iron & Steel Factory"  listed on the draft Privatization Program issued by
For the initial 4-firm  pilot  1997 and Russkii Dizel: January 5, 1998 (iii)  (Nizhni Novgorod Oblast),             the Government on April 21, 1998 shall be brought
program, to be completed in  Contracts to be signed with the selected FAs by the  5. OAO  "Nizhni Novgorod  Machine  to point of sale within the subsequent six months, if
1997, on May 15, 1997, the  following dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: November 14,  Building Plant";                   such dates are determined on advice of independent
Government  selected  four  1997, Domodedovo Airlines: November 6, 1997; and  6. OAO  "Oil &  Gas Co. "Slavneft"  financial advisors as most desirable based on
companies from the following  Russkii Dizel by January 26, 1998.            (Moscow);                               market conditions.
list of 10 enterprises for case-                                            7.  Rybinsk  Instrumentation   Factory
by-case privatization in 1997  The Govemment is committed to implementing fture  (Yaroslavl Oblast);
under tbe principles established  privatizations on the basis of a common framework of  8. Kemerovo Mechanical Plant (Kemerovo
by  Government Resolutions  principles and procedures that ensures transparency,  Oblast);
No. 363 and No. 564: Tymauz  openness and competition. The methods for carrying  9. Kamnensk Chemical Factory (Rostov
Tungsten-Molybdenum         out future privatizations shall be 'commercial  Oblast);
Kombinat (Kabardino-  alkar  competitive bidding", and "auctions' or "specialized  10. Factory  "Krasny  gigant"  (Penza
Oblast),      Domodedovo  auctions' as defmed in law, including "On Privatizing  Oblast);
Production  Association  for  State Property and en the Principles of Privatzing  I1. PO (Prod. Association) "Avangard"
Civil  Aviaton   (Moscow   Municipal Property in the Russian Federation"  (Ufa);
Oblast), Ta_arg Sea Trade  adopted by the State Duma on 24th June, 1997 (the  12. GPO "ZiM named after Maslennikov
Port (Rostov Obiast), Kamsk  Privadzadion Law). In accordance with the relevant  (Samara Oblast);
Pulp  and  Paper Kombinat  laws, bidding procedures will encourage all interested  13. Plant "Kommunar';
(Penn   Oblst),   Mosfilm  parties to participate; privadzadtons will be widely  14. NPO 'Geofzik" (Moscow);
(Moscovi), Lumber Factory  advertised, including internationally where this could  15. Vysokogorsky  Mechanical  Works
No. 21  (Vologda  Oblast),  attract additional qualified buyers; when employed,  (Sverdlovsk Oblast).
Troitsk Iodine Plant (Orenburg  financial adviserm will be reputable, and engaged
Oblast)  Pulkovo   Airlines  trough a transparent. competitive process; conflicts
(Lenagrad   Oblast),  State  of interest will be avoided; and bid evaluations will
Enterprise Russkii Dizel (St  be carried out objectively.
Ptsurg),    Rosgosstrakh
(Moscow)      Thse  four  In accordance with the Privatization Law, in August;
enterpises ame: Domodedovo  1997 the Govemment submitted to the State Duma
Production  Association  for  the "Statc Program of Privatization in the Russian
Civil Aviation. Kamsk Pulp  Federation' (State Privatization Program), which
and Paper Kombinat, Pulkovo  identifies two lists: (i) 37 state enterprises held in
Airlines, and  Rosgosstrakh.  federat property and subject to reorganization into
Three enterprises have been  open joint stock  companies and  privatization
seected as possible substitutes  beginning in 1998; and (ii) 29 open joint stock
if the implementation of case-  companies whose federaily held shares are subject to



Attachment 5: Policy Refomns Program Matrix
Private Sector Developmelnt - Page 3
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                      of SAL3                   Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)  Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
bY-case ptivatzation of any of  sae beginning in 1998. Not counting the four pilot
the  four abovc  enterprises  case-by-case transactions initiated in 1997, at least a
prove impossiib  because of  quarter of the enterprises which are on the lists (i) and
insurmountable  legal   or  (ii) above, and which will experience continuation of
technieal  difficulties  that  privatization measures initiated in 1997 or initiation
constitute a case of force  of such measures in 1998, will be privatized through
majeure. These are: Mosfilm,  "case-by-case"  transactions   as   defined   by
Russkii Dizel, and Tagatrog  Government Resolutions 363 and 564-R of 1997
Sea  Trade  Port.    (GKI  (involving in particular the engagement of financial
Directive 356-r.)           advisers as early as possible in the process), and
building on any experience from the four pilots. The
On  April 24,  1997,  the  Government will take all reasonable steps to ensure
Govemment appointed tender  State Duma deliberation on the State Privatization
comminees    for    these  Program, and to facilitate its passage. Should the
privatizations (GKI Directive  State Duma not approve the legislation in a timely
317-r).                     fashion, the Government will take all necessary and
feasible steps in conformity with the legislation in
force to enable the privatizations referred to in (i) and
(ii) above to proceed in 1998-99 in accordance with
the approaches defined above.
Government Resolution # 989 (issued August 7,
1997) on the -Procedure for Transferring Federally
Owned Shares of Joint Stock Companies Created in
the Course of Privatization to Trust Managers and
Concluding   Trust   Management   Agreements
Regarding those Shares" met many, but not all, of the
criteria set out under the program for implementing
market-based guidelines for trust management
arrangements, including the competitive selection of
trust managers. MSP will issue a directive by
November  30,  1997  that  contains  detailed
impitmenting regulations that specify: (a) a tnist
management contact has the objective of improving
the financial operation of enterprises and to prepare
them for privatization following the expiration of the
contract; (b) contracts are to specify performance
based compensation linked to financial results; (c)
compensation is to be paid through the term of the
contract, not a lump-sum paid at the conract's
expiration. It is noted, that according to Article 1015
of the Second Part of the Civil Code, property shall
not be subject to transfer under trust management to a
state agency or a local self-govemment body. An
individual entrepreneur or a for-profit organization
except for a unitary enterprise may act as a trust



Attachment 5: Policy Reforrns Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 4
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objedtive    Actions Taken For Board         Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                         of SAL3                    Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 199S)    Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
manager. In accordance with Govemment Resolution
989, evaluation of contract bids is to be carried out
using methods that are consistent with international
standards of competition, neutrlity and equity.
b. Reduction of                                                                                  Government Resolution No. 784 of July 17,  By October 31, 199Sthe Govemrnent will adopt  For  the  enterprises  removed  from  the
Lists        of                                                                                  1998 reduced from 3,000 to 697 the nwnber  selection criteria as to which of the existing 6,500  'strategic" list, in accordance with market
"Strategic"                                                                                      of fimis included in the list of "strategic"  agro-industrial enterprises  will remain  under  conditions as assessed by independent fuiancial
Fiuns                                                                                            enterprises under Govemment Resolution  exclusive federal ownership until the year 2000.  advisors, at least 15 percent will be brought to
No. 949 of September IS, 1995 bafred from                                               the point of sale by March 31, 1999, and at
any privatizahion to either domestic or  Basedon these criteria, by November 30, 1998, the  least 25 percent will be brought to the point of
foreign investors. The Resolution specifies  Govemment will issue a Resolution specifying the  sale by June 30, 1999.
that the enterprises removed from  the  list of agro-industry enterprises that will remain
"strategic" list will be subject to transparent  under federal ownership until 2000. The list will  For  the  enterprises  removed  from  the
and competitive privatization processes,  specify the name, legal address, core activity, and  "strategic" list, in accordance with market
beginning September 30, 1998 to Deeember  institutional and legal status of the enterprise.  conditions as assessed by independent financial
31, 2000. For the enterprises removed from                                               advisors, at least 30 percent will be brought to
the "strategic" list, in accordance with  For the enterprises removed from the "strategic"  the point of sale by September 30,1999.
market  conditions  as  assessed   by  list, in accordance with market conditions as
independent financial advisors, at least 40  assessed by independent financial advisors, at least
percent will be brought to the point of sale  10 percent will be brought to the point of sale by
by December 31, 1999, and 100 percent  December31, 1998.
will be bmught to the point of sale by
December 31, 2000.
Starting from Januaiv 1, 1999, the Government
will, market conditions permitting, bring to the
point of sale by December 31, 1999, at least 10
percent of the enterprises not included on the
list of agro-industry enterprises that will remain
under federal ownership until 2000. Subsequent
sales will be announced in the future. The
privatization process shall be according to the
rules govening competitive  cash auctions.
without distributing majority shareholding to
suppliers of raw materials under preferential
terms.
11, Bankruptcy
To   make   the  The  Federal  Service  on  The Govemment sent a draft bankruptcy law to the  The new Bankruptcy Law became effective  The government will implement measures to
bankruptcy process  Insolvency   and   Finanial  Duma, Relative to current law, the new draft provides  in March 199S.                      eliminate the bias in the new  bankruptcy law
more efficient     Rebabilitalion, based on an  for (i) an increased role for creditor commitrees in                                        towards reorganization rather than liquidation of
assessment   of   completed  the  resolution  of insolvency  cases; (ii) more                                           enterprises.  By  September  30,  1998,  the
bankruptcy  cases  to  date,  expeditious appointment on a competitive basis of                                         Government will submit to the Duma, with the
developed and made public  licensed trustees with authority to replace incumbent                                        view  to enactment by  December 31, 1998,
recommendations to increase  enterprise managers; (iii) differentiation of classes of                                   amendments to (i) the Bankruptcy  Law  that
the speed and effectiveness of  creditors, and (iv) stricter obsrvanee of time limits                                   eliminate  court discretion  in  overruling  the
the bankruptcy process.      for workout and liquidation proceedings by all                                             creditors' decision to liquidate the debtor enterprise
parties.                                        i                                          and (ii) amendments to  the Civil Code to



Attachment5: Policy Refornms Pogrmm Matrix
Private Sector Development - Pag. 5
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3                   Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)  Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30. 1 999)
strengthen the rights of secured creditors.
By December 31, 1998, the government will take
all necessary steps tr implement the new laws on
enforcement of court judgements, including by
fuly staffing the court officers' corps.
In addition to the actions aimed at imtprovtg the bankruptcy legislative framework, the
restructuring process in the Russian economy could be expedited by implementing pilot projects
targeted towards bankruptcy of insolvent enterprises in cases that are especially difficult in such a
way that minimizes possible negative social consequences of bankruptcy. For such purposes, and
taking into account the basic provisions of the new Bankruptcy Law, the Government of the
Russian Federation will approve, by adopting appropriate directives, a procedure for implementing
and financing bankruptcy pilot projects involving insolvent enterprises. In compliance with the
above mentioned procedure as well as in accordance with the goals outlined in the first sentence of
the current paragraph, the Federal Service on Bankruptcy Maners and Financial Rehabilitation,
shall implement in 1998 at least 4 bankruptcy pilots embracing large enterprises that experience
serious financial difficulties and have bad market prospects. The results of the pilots implemented
will be widely reflected in a report of the Fedeml Service of Russia for Bankruptcy Matters and
Financial Rehabilitation to (i) provide arbitrators with data on the relevant procedures; and (ii)
provide creditors and other persons concemed with the most detailed information about the
mechanisms and advantages of hearing bankruptcy cases in the court.
Ill. Compeffldon Pon ley
Strengtheming  the                                                                         . In order to foster resolution of business  The proposed Law on Licensing will be adopted
government's                                                                                    disputes,  new   measures  shall  be  and enter into force.
Capacity      to                                                                                implemented  by  July  31,  1998  that
intervene     to                                                                                strengthen and enlarge the bailiff service so  By September 30, 1998, the Govemment will
promote                                                                                         as  to  provide  for  more  effective  implement measures to strengthen the mission of
competition.                                                                                    enforcement compliance, including criminal  the Antimonopoly Committee, both at the Federal
sanctions, by losing defendants in arbitrazh  and sub-federal levels, with a view  towards
court cases.                            introducing   a  more  effective  rules-based
competition policy institutional regime in the
Russian Federation, ensuring that territorial
branches exist in each region. Through such
measures  and  in  the  1999  budget,  the
Antimonopoly Committee shall be given adequate
financial and human resources commensurate with
its revitalized mission.
By September 30, 1998, the State Antimonopoly
Committee, in collaboration with other federal
organs, will implement new measures to remove
administrative and policy-induced barriers at
Federal and sub-Federal levels to the free
movement of goods and services throughout the
Russian Federation. The measures will include
.___________________________.____________  stronger enforcement penalties than presently exist.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 6
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objcctive    Actions Taken For Board       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3                   Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)  Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
By November 30, 1998 the Antimonopoly
Committee will issue for public comment explicit
and well-defined merger guidelines that establish
general policy  parameters  for distinguishing
between pro-competitive and anti-competitive
mergers based on similar guidelines consistent with
intemational practice. Following public comment,
these new merger guidelines shall be published
widely by December31, 1998.
To introduce at the Federal and sub-federal levels
new rules-based, streamlined business licensing
procedures and fee structures, the Govemment will
seek passage of the Law on Licensing by
.__________________ _  December 31, 1998.
The mission of the Antimonopoly Committee should have as principal objectives the creation of a unified economic space throughout the Russian
Federation and preventing restrictive business practices, in particular anti-competitive mergers and acquisitions. The Antimonopoly Committee will
develop and implement policy measures that deal with reducing anti-competitive horizontal and vertical concentration and integration in key product
and geographic manufacturing and infrastructure monopoly markets, including industrial and financial groups (FlGs) and the petroleum sector.
IV. Corporate Govertance and Investor Rights
Clearly signal the                                                                              By July 1, 1998, a Presidential Decree will  An amendment to the Joint Stock Company law
govemment's                                                                                     be issued that implements measures to  will be adopted and enter into force providing for
determination  to                                                                               protect  depositors'  rights,  including  adequate protection of minority shareholders.
protect investors.                                                                              measures towards liquidation (bankruptcy)
of non-licensed companies, sale of such  By September 1, 1998, the FSC of Russia will
companies'   assets,   and    paying  adopt and implement a Resolution on the procedure
compensation to victimized investors.   goveming compilation and submission by issuers
of securities of quarterly reports, with a special
Govemment Resolution No. 785 of July 17,  focus on information disclosure by enterprises
1998 adopted and initiated implementation  quoted on public exchanges.
of the State Program of Protection of
Investors' Rights, which spells out key  By October 31, 1998 the Government will publish
tasks and measures to be undertaken in  procedures consistent with Decree No. 395 and
1998 and 1999. The Government will also  Decree No. 392 for restructuring the debts of
ensure  that  the  Federal  Securities  agricultural enterprises.
Commission (FSC) will be provided
sufficient resources to enforce investors'  By December 31, 1998, the Govemment will
rights. This will be achieved by assigning a  implement the above mentioned procedures. In any
share of fee revenue from  licensing of  new legal enactments regarding the establishment
securities' market participants to the FSC.    of joint stock companies in the agricultural sector
and the legal status of such companies, the
Govemment will affirm  and protect the right of
members of the joint stock company to invest the
use right of land in the charter capital of the
enterprise while retaining ownership of the land.   |



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 7
____________                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective     Actions Taken For Board         Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2       Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche     Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                          of SAL3                     Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)    Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
The Gove.ment will submit to the Duma, with a
view  to  enactment by  December 31, 1998,
legislation that amcnds the Federal Law "On g oint-
Stock  Companies"  stipulating,  in  particular,
protection  of  minority  shareholders'  rights,
including protection from  transfer of assets to
parent (affiliate) companies, by enhancing the
V. Fostering Labor Mobility
By Novemnber 1. 1998, the Government will submit
to the Duma a new Labor Code which will bring
the labor laws in compliance with the requirements
of a market economy. The Code will establish a
realistic and feasible minimum of social
guarantees, enhance the role of individual labor
agreements. including a more simplified procedure
for dissolving individual labor agreements (such as
excluding the nerd for consent of trade unions and
finding alternative employment), and expand the
ability to ester into fixed term and multiple-work
contracts. The Code will also contain provisions
ensuring that social partnerahip be targeted at
forming and implementing collective agreements at
the level of individual enterprises, as well as ensure
the establishment of effcient institutions ensuring
implementation  of  individual  and  collective
agreements. setlement of collective disputes and
compliance with the requiremnents of the labor
tegislatiots
MI. LandMReal Estate
To further develop  Presidential Decree No. 485  Under the programn, by June 30, 1997 a presidential  In  December  1997, model municipal  By August 30, 1998 the Goernment witl approve  By March 30, 1999, a Government Resolution
the   legal   and  "On Guarantees to Owners of  decree was to be issued to cover four main goals to  regulations and procedures were prepared  the Federal Program  on Development of Land  shall  be  approved  specifying   detailed
'ititutional        Real  Estate to Buy Land on  foster land/real estate tansactions: (i) create a legal  for  the  sale  of  unoccupied  and/or  Reform in the Russian Federtion in 1998-2001  procedures for the registry offices' functioning.
framnework for fuill  Which  These  Assets  Are  franmework requiring that the sale of all premises  undeveloped  land through auctions and  and  ensure  that by  September 30, 1998  a
private  ownership  Located" was issued on May  belonging to the federal Government which are  competitive tenders.                           Presidential Decree is issued to enact the above  The proposed Laws on State and Municipal
and  development  16, 1997  to  establish  the  currently under lease to commercial entities be carried                                       Program. The Programn shall include an affirtnation  Land, on the State Land Cadastre, on the
of land and real  necessary           legislative  out at market rates; (ii) eliminate all existing                                           of the rights of citizens of the Russian Federation  Appraisal of Land, and on Land Management
estate,       ~~framnework to enable all owners  restrictions on the market sale of such real estate; (iii)                              to engage in transactions in  land, including  will be adopted and enter into force.
of privatized  non-land  real  all future leases of the federal owned property will be                                    purchase. sale, rental, and mortgage, and shall
estate   assets   (including  at market prices; and (iv) recommenid that all the                                          specify  a  program   of actions  to  facilitate
production       complexes,  procedures outlined in the decree be fotlowed by                                             transactions. The reform strategy outlined in the
buildings,  and   unfinished  regional and  local Governments. A  presidential                                            Program  will focus on pragmatic and readily
construction) to acquire the  decree was not issued; a new privatization law was                                          implementable steps on clarifying rights in land,
land on which these assets are  pasted by the Duma in June 1997. An analysis was                                          transferring  commercially  valuable  land  from
_______________located.    For  all  futureI performed by MSP that assesses the nature of the                                             municiaansteowrhptoihrprvt_____________________



Attachment 5: Policy Refonms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 8
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For Board           Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2          Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation     Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche        Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SAL I                                                                               of SAL3                      Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)        Release of SAL3 (estimated june 30, 1999)
privatization of such assets, the  gaps between the earlier agreed objectives and the                                             ownership or long term  (49 years) lease, and
associated land plots will be  privatization law. The analysis indicates that many of                                             simplifying the procedures by which transactions
included  in  the  transaction  the abovc-mentioned objectives are covered.                                                       with land can take place.
package.
Presidential  Decree  No.  1263  was  issued  on                                                  The Federal Program  on Development of Land
November 26, 1997, which  establishes a  legal                                                    Reform should be supported by an action plan for
framework for market-based sales of indeveloped                                                   implementation thereof to be approved by October
land and/or land not currently in use (including                                                  30, 1998. At the same time the Govemment will
nonagricultural land bordering city limits) to be used                                            encourage implementation of Presidential Decree
for conmmercial development, including  through                                                   `On Exercising Individuals' Constitutional Rights
auctions and competitive tenders.                                                                 to Land" No. 337 of March 7, 1996 with a view to
facilitate entering into agreements for the use of
land shares by all users of agricultural land.
The Govemment will submit to the Duma, with a
view  to  enactment by  December 31,  1998,
legislation that includes the draft Federal Laws "On
State and Municipal Land," "On the State Land
Cadastre," "On Appraisal of Land," and "On Land
Managemenf'. Such laws will be aimed at further
liberalization of the land market. The Federal Law
on Cadastre will provide for establishment of the
basic cadastre, that is information on parcel
existence, location, and approximate boundaries,
and allow for establishment of additional layers of
cadastral information by agencies responsible for
such work.
By December 31, 1998, the Government will adopt
and start implementing a Resolution to establish
the program for the phased introduction of the
uniform system of state registration in accordance
with the Federal Law "On State Registration of
Rights and Transactions in Real Estate" and
Government Resolution No. 1378 of November 1,
1997, which implements the law. Such Resolution
shall clarify the steps that will be taken to have
functioning registration offices established at the
rayon level, the specific nature of inter-agency
cooperation required, and the sources of financing
._________ _   _for implementing this plan.
Vil. Accounting and Auditing                       , -                                -.
To         achieve
substantial
progress        inil
_i_m__e__ .nIg                                                                                                                                       I
implementing ________________________ __________________________________________ __________________________________ _________________________________________~



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development . Page 9
_________________________________PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3                   Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)   Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
financial
accounting    and
auditing standards
and practices in
line        with
international
principles.
a. Accounting                                The Govemment approved an Action Program  to                                             By September 30, 1998, the Government will (i)  The Ministry of Finance will will ensure that
introduce generally accepted accounting principles                                      revise the rules for fornming financial statements of  the first 10 accounting rules (standards) fully
consistent with Intemational Accounting Standards                                       commercial  organizations  and   consolidated  consistent with  intemational  requirements
(IAS).                                                                                  financial statements for groups of organizations in  (IAS) are made effective as of January 1, 1999.
compliance  with  IAS: (ii) prepare  standard
The Action Program: (i) idcntifies any necessary                                        recommendations  on  the   organization   of
amendments to laws or other nofmative acts to                                           accounting  for  small  business  entities  in
facilitate the use of IAS by Russian issuers in                                         compliance with IAS; and (iii) develop Standards
disclosure of financial information; (ii) requires the                                  of professional ethics of accountants in compliance
MOF to approve regulations by October 31, 1997                                          with international practice.
mandating lAS-consistent disclosure by January 1998
of financial information to investors by Russian                                        By December 31, 1998, under the guidance of the
enterprises which have a significant secondary market                                   Interagency  Commission  for Accounting  and
in their securities or which propose to offer their                                     Reporting Reform, the Ministry of Finance will
securities to the public, and to require the same for all                               develop the first 10 accounting rules (standards)
other enterprises by January 1999; and (iii) outlines a                                 fully consistent with international requirements
strategy and timetable for adaptation of the entire                                     (IAS); and will ensure that such rules are made
accounting system for enterprises to bring it into                                      effective as of January 1, 1999.
conformity with intemational practices. This strategy
and timetable will include: steps for transition to a                                   By December 31, 1998, the Government will
revised chart of accounts; a plan for training of                                       develop new Charts of Accounts in compliance
accounting personnel; further improvement of the                                        with IAS  for commercial entities. budgetary                                             i
process of certification of professional accountants I                                  organizations, professional participants of the
and  auditors; and an approach  to  developing                                          securities market and investment funds: will revise
accounting  and audit practices such  that any I                                        the source accounting documentation with account
authorized system using accounting information will                                     taken of the requirements of the market economy
not preclude lAS-consistent financial accounting                                        and international financial reporting standards.
information. With respect to (ii), the MOF issued the
regulations on October 14, 1997.
With regard to accounting reform, the Government will ensure the implementation to January 1999 of the measures specified in the Action Plan of
the Accounting Reform Program based on International Accounting Standards (IAS), approved by Govemment Resolution No 283, to devetopI
. national accounting standards consistent with IAS and to support the establishment of the self-regulating independent accounting professional body.
b. Auditing                                   A parallel set of activities to those listed above                                      By November 30, 1998, the Government will  By May 31, 1999, an additional eleven auditing
regarding the introduction of financial accounts based                                  finalize the draft law "On Auditing in the Russian  standards based on ISA will be adopted by the
on international standards was initiated to introduce                                   Federation" and submit it to the State Duma, with a  Govemment.
independent audits of such accounts in enterprises. In                                  view to enactment by March 31, 1999. The draft
particular. the Govemment approved and published                                        law  On Auditing in the Russian Federation" shall  The Law on Auditing will be adopted and enter
for public comment an Action Prograrn to require, no                                    provide for the gradual transition of auditing  into force providing for gradual transition of
_____________________________________   later than June 1999. independent audits of the                                            regulation powers from Federal bodies to the self-  regulatory powers relating to auditing from the|



Attachment 5: Policy Refofms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 10
___________________                                                          ~~~~~~~~PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMAENT           _________________________ ______________________
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For Board          Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2          ActioAs Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche      Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                              of SAL3                      Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)      Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
financial accounts of enterprises.                                                              regulating  independent auditing  profession. In  Federal bodies to a self-regulating independent
accordance  with  the  1998-1999  Program   of  auditing profession, and regulations have been
auditing the accounts (financial statements) of  issued defining thirty three auditing standards
economic entities using auditing standards based  in accordance with intemational standards for
on intemational practice, the Govemment will  accounting.
ensure implementation of measures to arrange the
auditing activities in the Russian Federation in
compliance with the existing regulatory framework
and national auditing regulations (standards) which
are being developed on the basis of the
Intemational Standards on Auditing (ISA).
By December 31, 1998 the Govemment will adopt
22 audit standards (inclusive of those adopted
earlier) in compliance with ISA.
Vil. Liberalizing  e Intemational Trade and Foreign Direct Investment Regimes
To  send  a clear  Under the program, trade policy commitments have been made to preserve what liberalization has already been achieved. No quantitative restrictions will be introduced on intemational trade transactions, with the possible exception of any
signal to  foreign   protectionist measures that might be taken fully consistent with WTO rules. The Govemment will also strive to reduce import tariff exemptions, laying the basis for an eventual reduction in import tariffs. Centralized trade will continue to be
investors  of  the  limited to arms exports and defense-related equipment. Trade under intergoverrmental agreements and credit arrangements guaranteed by the govemment will be conducted on the basis of market-based procurement, with prices at vorld
govenmment's         levels, and related expenditures and receipts will be reflected in the budget. The Govemment will refrain from operating any system of export controls under the guise of mandatory monitoring of the quantity, quality, or price of exports.
intentions to ensure
they receive fair
treatment and to
harmonize
production
certification
standards     with
intemational
practice so as to
reduce barriers to
foreign trade.
a. Foreign Direct                                                                                                                                 By September 30, 1998 a special Policy Statement
Investment                                                                                                                                        will be issued by the Chairman of the Government
Policy                                                                                                                                            of the Russian Federation, which shall be published
widely in the intemational media, that states the
Government's commitment to continue to improve
the  policy  environment  for  foreign  direct
investment by bringing the fiscal, regulatory and
legal policy regime in line with intemational
standards. Measures to bring about such changes
will include the following reforms: (i) "national
treatment' will be adhered to both for right of
establishment   and    for   post-establishment
operations, (ii) the number of restricted sectors and
limitations on foreign direct investment will be
substantially reduced; (iii) enforcement of property



Attachment 5: Policy Refomns Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page I1
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board         Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2       Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation   Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
Approval of SALI                                                                          of SAL3                     Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)    Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
rights will be strengthened; (iv) investor-State
dispute resolution mechanisms will be made more
efficient, including giving foreign investors the
opportunity to seek neutral, binding international
arbitration; (v) foreign investor registration
procedures will be simplified, rules-based, and
made transparent; (vi) guarantee schemes covering
basic non-commercial risks will be maintained and
extended;  and  (vii)  restrictions  for  foreign
investment in services sectors will be reduced.
b.   Production                                In August 1997, amendments to draft legislation were  Revisions and harmonization of Russian  By  October 1, 1998, a new  procedure for  By December 31, 1999, harmonization of1
Certification                                  introduced  to  ensure that the emerging  legal  legislation, regulation and other measures,  mandatory certification  will become effective,  Russian standards in priority  sectors with
Standards                                      framework for trade measures (safeguards, anti-  and   their  practical  application  to  which will envisage both reduction in the number  intemationally accepted ones will be essentially
dumping, countervailing duties, etc.) will be in line  intemational trade and investment continue  of goods subject to mandatory certification, and  completed.
with international norms.                         to be made in accordance with international  simplification  of  imposed  requirements.  An
standards and practices.                 approved Concept for Developing Certification
In August 1997, Government Resolution No. 1037                                              will target gradual substitution of a producer's
was issued that revises product labeling standards.                                         declaration for the current pre-market certification.
Detailed information of what retailers are to provide
shall be clearly specified, as will be the list of                                          The Government will submit to the Duma, with a
products subject to the regulation; the classification                                      viewv to enactment by December 31, 1998, a law to
system has been streamlined; and national treatment                                         reduce duplication  of certification  procedures
standards have been incorporated.                                                           applied by different ministries to homogeneous
groups of goods.
In September 1997, Govemment Resolution No. 1193
was issued that revises the system  for marking
products to ensure against counterfeiting in line with
intemational standards. The coverage of products
requiring such markings have been reduced and
mandatory restrictions have been narrowed; the
certification process has been streamlined.
c.       Tariff                                                                                  The Safeguard Commission approved a list
Reductions                                                                                       of 300 itemns for which the import duty rate
will be reduced from 30 percent to 20
percent by December 31, 1998, and a
Govement Resolution adopting this was 
issued  on  June 3, 1998.                                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 1
FISCAL MIANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2       Actions Taken Prior to Board       Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche   Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                         Presentation of SAL3           Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                     of SAL3
I_ _        SAL I                                                                                                                                                          (estimated June 30, 1999)
The government announced its anti-crisis Economic Stabilization and Finance Program in late June 1998. Key fiscal measures under the programn include improvement of tax administration, raising and rationalizing select taxes, and restructuring of budget
commitments. A Presidential Decree setting out the budget parameters for 1999 was issued on July 16, 1998. Subsequentlv. a Presidential Address that formulates the 1999 budget-including key measures to underpin the budget targets-was signed on July 17,
1998 (and published on July 20, 1998). The Govermment's strategy focuses on further reducing the budget deficit by turming around the ongoing serious erosion in revenue collections while also making more effective use of limited fiscal resources. The federal
government has committed itselfto undertaking measures aimed at increasing total revenue collection from an around 10.6% of GDP projected in 1998, to a targeted level of 13.2% of GDP in 1999, while holding constant nominal federal non-interest expenditures.
As a result, the 1999 primaty fiscal balance is targeted to improve to nearly three percent of GDP from a small negative balance this year. This dramatic shift will be achieved through efforts to broaden the tax base, improve revenue collection, strengthen budget
management, rationalize government spending, reform intergovernmental fiscal relations, and strengthen debt management and monitoring capacity. In addition, the govemment is committed to improving the management and cost efficiency of extrabudgetary
funds, including the Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Employment Fund and Road Fund, together representing nearly 10% of GDP.
1. Elimination of Non-Payments and Arrears
To eliminate arrears and                                                                     The Deputy Prime Minister signed a  On the basis of a Presidential Decree issued on July
the practice of non-                                                                         resolution  on  June  18,  1998  16, 1998, the Government will prepare and submit to
paynments.                                                                                   stipulating that agreements between  the Duma a draft 1999 Budget Law  which will
the  State  Tax  Service  and  oil  include a requirement that regions will receive !
producing   enterprises   will  be  substantially  reduced  federal transfer payments,
prepared and signed within a week  grants or loans unless they meet the following I
and oil holdings with outstanding tax  conditions: (i) maintain accounts payable of 45 days
arrears not in compliance with these  or less of sales  equivalent to  infrastructure
agreements will be denied access to  monopolies in respect of services provided after
the oil pipeline. It has been publicly  September 30, 1998; (ii) comply with a schedule
announced that nonpayment by July I  agreed  with  infrastructure  monopolies for the
will automatically and immediately  liquidation of arrears relating to products and services
lead to curtailed pipeline accesS,  provided prior to September 30, 1998; (iii) maintain
wage and payroll tax arrears at 30 days or less of the
On July 17. 1998, a Presidential  current wage-bill; (iv) ensure that alt transactions are
Address on the principles of the 1999  on a cash basis; (v) meet federal targets for cost
budget was issued instructing the  recovery on housing and communal services: and (vi)
Government to prepare and submit to  themselves apply conditions (i)-(v) above in respect
the Duma a draft 1999 Budget Law   of their transfers, grants or loans to municipal
which stipulates terms and conditions  govemments.
to be met by regions in order to
qualify for their full share of federal
transfer payments.                                                                l
11. Tax Administration and Policy
To strengthen revenue
collection performance,
improve          tax
administration,    and
reduce distortions in the
a) Design overae l tax  The    Govemment  The draft Tax Code passed its first reading in the  The Federal Assembly adopted Part I  To reduce tax distortions and encourage long term   By January 1, 1999, the govemment will introduce
reform package      submitted the draft Tax  State Duma; however, the Duma decided to send the  of the Tax Code in its third reading,  savings instruments, the Govemment swill seek to  into the Duma legislation to amend some key



Attachment 5: Policy Refoms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 2
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2        Actions Taken Prior to Board      Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                          Presentation of SAL3          Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                     of SAL3
SALI                                                                                             ________________________(estimated June 30, 1999)
Code, through which it  Code back for a new first reading. The Government  with  the  provision  for  offsets  amend Part 11 of the Tax Code by September 30,  deficiencies of Part I of the Tax Code. This amended
intends to undertake a  continued to work closely with the State Duma to  eliminated and the cap on interest  1998 to, inter alia, (i) ensure that taxation of interest  version will give the tax authorities broad powers to
significant reform of tax  secure final adoption of the Code on a timely basis.   increased from  50 percent of tax  earnings on all deposit accounts in banks will be at  collect both tax principal and interest and fines without
policy, to  the  State                                                arrears to 100 percent.            uniform  rates with  those applied  to all non-  recourse to the court system, eliminate deferrals for tax
Duma on April 30,  As part of the draft Tax Code, the Govemment                                          government securities, (ii) the principles of sharing  payers with arrears from the budget, and permit the tax
1997.                 submitted draft legislation to introduce an improved                              between  the  government and  developers  after  authorities to issue broad instructions to enforce tax
framework for the taxation of capital income. This                                payment of appropriate investment and expenses are  laws without having  detailed  tax administration
framework includes shifts toward: (i) uniformity of                               consistent with the provisions in the Law  on  provisions codified in the law. The amended Part I of
tax rates and treatment for securities and other                                  Production Sharing Agreements. The Government  the Tax Code will also contain improvements in the tax
financial assets, including removal of tax privileges                             will seek to have Part 11 of the Tax Code signed into  administration such as making tax agents who fail to
or exemptions for specific types of securities; (ii)                             law by January 1, 1999.                          transfer withheld taxes to the budget subject to
elimination  of double taxation on  investment                                                                                     criminal liabilities and giving the tax authorities the
through collective investment vehicles such as                                    Any necessary amendments to the Tax Code to  ability to issue liens on the bank accounts of tax
mutual funds; (iii) deductibility of capital losses                               harmonize its provisions with the tax regime provided  delinquents.
from the sale of securities. Moreover, the draft Tax                              for in the Law on Production Sharing Agreements
Code does not stipulate any transaction taxes or fees                             will be enacted and enter into force.
on the circulation of securities.
b) Reform  of the  Among             many                                                  The  Federal  Assembly  adopted
structure        of  improvements,    the                                                  legislation approving a 5 percent
individual taxes     Code  envisages  the                                                  sales tax, with exemptions for bread,
elimination       or                                                  milk, and  children's  food  and
phase-out of almost all                                               clothing, as well as  provisions
existing exemptions for                                               allowing the regions to introduce
the  VAT  and  the                                                    their own exemptions on  social
deduction  of normal                                                  grounds. The revenue impact of the
business expenses when                                                exemptions is small.
measuring the profit tax
base. It also includes                                                A  Presidential Decree was issued
the adoption of accrual                                               raising rates for the land tax.
accounting;      the
indexation of specific                                                The tax rate on profits was reduced
excise   rates   for                                                  from 35 percent to 30 percent.
inflation;       the
elimination       of                                                  Means.tested subsidies have been
preferential rates under                                              introduced.
the profit tax; and a
simplification of filing
requirements under the
profit tax and personal
income tax.                                                                                                                                             I



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Refonn - Page 3
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2          Actions Taken Prior to Board        Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche     Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                            Presentation of SAL3            Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                        of SAL3
SALI                                                                                                                                                                 (estimated June 30, 1999)
c) Asaessment of tax  On April 4, 1997, the                                                   The Federal Assembly adopted a law
exemptions           Goventment eliminated                                                    removing  exemptions  for  closed
the tax deductibility of                                                territories. The exemptions will be
transfers by RAO UeS                                                     allowed to expire as initially planned,
Rossii to its Investment                                                but no later than January 1, 2000.
Fund,    with    no
accompanying increase
in electricity prices
(Government
Resolution No. 390).                                                                                                                                                                                              l
d)   Develop    an  In the period up to May  As of September 30, 1997, the Govemment has  The Large Taxpayer Inspectorate is  By Scptember 1, 1998, the government wvill take a  By January 1, 1999, eliminate the use of senlement
efficient       and  15,      1997,    the  established and made operational large taxpayer  not fully operational. but central  decision concerning the appropriate responsibilities of  accounts by the tax authorities.
impartial       tax  Government   notified  units of the Federal State Tax Service in five  offices of 17 large financial-industrial  the Federal Agency for Foreign Currency and Export
administuation   that  more than 15 of the  regions.                                           groups have been shifted under its  Control with a viewv to eliminate duplicate functions I
can   overcome   a  largest debtors to the                                                    jurisdiction. The employees of the  and redundant activities.
pervasive     'non-  federal  budget  that  In November 1997, the Government introduced a  Inspectorate still need to be relocated
payment culture"     within one month, they  new Action Plan to Increase Collection of Taxes and  to one single office. The Govemment  The role of banks in enforcing tax collection through
will have  to  decide  Reduce Federal Budget Expenditures. Major steps  has issued an order allocating the  the banking system needs to be reva= ped as the
among three options for  that will be taken under this action plan include: (i)  resources to cover the expenses of the  current system  has negatively  affected  financial
resolving       their  the termination of noncash arrangements ('offsets")  Inspectorate.                    intermediation through the banking  system. By
outstanding tax arrears:  for clearing tax and spending arrears, which will                                  September 1, 1998, the Government will establish a
(i) paying their arrears  become effective on January 1, 1998, as stipulated  A   legal  framework  has  been  plan to remove tax administration functions from the
in full; (ii) participating  in a November 7, 1997 Presidential Decree; (ii) the  established for tax authorities to seize  banking system. In particular, legislation will be
in  the   announced  establishment of firm expenditure control through  the assets of tax delinquents.       passed defining procedures for the State Tax Service
scheme of collateralized  the consolidation of all federal spending under the                                (STS) to issue liens on any bank account and
restrnucturing of arrears;  Treasury, supported by sanctions against officials of  Collection of arrears from large tax  resources held in the banking system  in line wvith
and   (iii)  initiating  institutions  receiving  budgetary  resources  for  debtors will continue to be a central  intemational practice. A major goal of this plan will
bankruptcy             undertaking expenditure liabilities not covered by  element of the revenue collection  be to eliminate the use of settlement accounts by the
proceedings.           budgetary  funding,  improved  reporting   of  strategy. From  July  1, 1998 and  tax authorities by January 1, 1999. In line with |
expenditure arrears, and other expenditure control  during the remainder of the year, the  international practice, the STS will begin seizure of
The       Govemment  mechanisms;   (iii)  the   development   and  Emergency  Tax  Commission  will  real assets or initiate bankruptcy proceedings agatnst I
endorsed an action plan  implementation of a realistic spending plan to  meet monthly, to take steps to collect  any enterprises for which there has been a lien on
to   establish   large  underpin the  1998 budget, including  spending  arrears in each quarter from at least  bank accounts for 60 days or more.
taxpaver units in the  norms for such items as electricity and heating; (iv)  the 20 largest remaining tax debtors.
State Tax Service (STS   strong measures to improve tax collection, including  Further, a newly created Federal Debt
Orders No. BA-3-20127  taking actions against large high-profile tax debtors  Center will begin sales of the assets
of February 17, 1997,  and enterprises that do not carry out the decisions of  seized from tax debtors. All necessary
BA-3-32/57 of March  the Emergency Tax Commission (VChK). creating  steps will be taken to ensure that the
25, 1997, and PV-3-  the infrastructure for effective implementation of  specialized    tax    inspectorate,
32/104  of May  13,  levies on property of tax debtors, and accelerating  established    under   Govemment



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 4
FISCAL NtANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2       Actions Taken Prior to Board       Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche   Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                         Presentation of SAL3          Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                      of SAL3
SALI                                                                                                                                                          (estimated June 30, 1999)
1997).                tax arrears rescheduling efforts; (v) introducing the  Resolution No. 9 within the State Tax
invoice system for VAT collection and making the  Service (STS) to monitor the largest
The Govemment has  transition to collection of VAT, profit taxes and  tax payers, will operate effectively.
adopted an action plan  excises based on the accrual method; and (vi)
to   strengthen   the  inventorying all off-budget accounts of budgetary  In order to futrther streamline tax
collection  of alcohol  organizations.                                administration, Govemment Directive
taxes, including steps to                                             No. 969-r of July 17, 1998 has made
control     domestic                                                  the Federal Agency  for Foreign
coumnercial traffic  in                                               Currency and Export Control and the
excisable  goods,  to                                                 Tax  Police  subordinate  to  the
ensure that the excise                                                Minister Head of the STS.
tax on domestic alcohol
and alcohol products is
payable at the time of
shipment,  and   to
improve  the  excise
stamp        program
(Goveniment
Resolution No. 297 of
March   14,   1997,
submission of the draft
Tax Code to the Duma
on April 30, 1997, and
various      Customs
Committee orders).                                                                                                                                      l
Ill. Expenditure Management and Policy
To improve control
over and efficiency of
public expenditure.
a)        Maximize  The        Govemment  In an effort to establish an instrument for the regular  The    Govemment's   Economic
transparency    and  submitted to the State  and accurate monitoring and assessment of tax  Stabilization and Finance Program is
minimize disruptions  Duma, on April 30,  expenditures, an amendment was made to the draft  being implemented and the 1999
through     ad-hoc  1997, a law proposing  Budget Code in September 1997 for consideration  federal budget is being prepared in
sequestration.       expenditure ceilings for  by the State Duma in the second reading, so as to  accordance with the parameters set
1997    which    are  make the evaluation of actual Govemment tax  forth in the Presidential Address of
consistent  with  the  expenditures a mandatory component of the annual  July 17, 1998.
program. This level of  budget  execution  reports  at  all  levels  of
expenditure  will  be  Govemment.
sufficient to provide for
the basic needs of the  As of September 30, 1997, the Govemment has kept 



Attachment 5: Pol(cy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 5
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2          Actions Taken Prior to Board        Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche     Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                             Presentation of SAL3           Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31. 1998)                        of SAL3
SALI                                                                                                                                                                 (estimated June 30. 1999)
Federal   Govemment  its eash budget expenditures in line with its
while at the same time  sequestration budget proposed to the Duma in late
ensuring that there will  April and the cash deficit remained under control.
be no incurrence of new
arrears.
b) Control spending  The       Govemment  As of October 31, 1997, all federal pension arrears  For 1998, the Ministry of Finance is  By September 1, 1998, a law will be submitted to the  The Govemment will provide to the Bank a report. in
commitments   and  confirmed in early May  and all federal wage arrears have been repaid by the  developing a procedure to strengthen  Duma to allow the federal treasury to pre-approve  such scope as has been agreed upon with the Bank,
eliminate    budget  1997 that a mechanism   Govemment.                                       Treasury control over payments to  contracts that are to be financed from federal budget  demonstrating that the accounts payable of Federal
arrears    through  was launched for the                                                      energy   suppliers   by   budget  funds, with a view to enactment by October 31, 1998.  budget organizations to infrastructure monopolies do
enhanced monitoring  Treasury   to   issue  The Ministry of Finance began an assessment of the  organizations    and    government  This law will specify that contracts that are not  not exceed thirty days of current sales incurred after
and the establishment  directly payment orders  level and structure of federal budgetary arrears to  agencies  so  as  to  prevent the  registered will not be a legal obligation of the federal  July 1, 1998 and Federal transfer payments to regions
of   a    Treasury  for  wages  of  the  suppliers as of June 30, 1997. The Govemment  unauthorized reallocation of budget  govemment, and that only contracts within the  are made in compliance with the principles set forth in
controlled  payments  Ministry of Defense.   adopted a decision to instruct the Ministry of  funds  to  other  categories  of  financial ceilings established by the federal budget  the Presidential Address of July 17, 1998.
mechanism.                                   Finance and Goskomstat to develop a statistical  expenditures and help reduce budget  will be registered. In addition, the federal treasury
On  May  12,  1997,  format for  monthly  reporting  by  budgetary  arrears to energy providers. At the  will put in place a reporting system allowing the
Presidential Decree No.  organization on the stock of their outstanding arrears  same time, 1998 budget allocations  amount of registered contracts to be monitored
467 ("On Terminating  to suppliers, starting in lanuary 1997.            will provide sufficient funding for  against budget limits on an ongoing basis.
the Practice of Issuing                                                 financing energy consumption within
Guarantees        and  A  Presidential Decree was signed and became  agreed limits. (Ref.: GOR Resolution
Warrants Covered  by  effective on November 7, 1997 to (i) instruct the  No. 1129).
the Federal Budget')  federal Govemment to end, as of January 1, 1998,
was issued eliminating  the use of all types of mutual offsets, including cash  A draft law has been prepared which
the    system      of  offsets, for clearing federal tax and budgetary  svould amend the Civil Code to allow
govemment guarantees  arreams;  and  (ii)  recommend  to  regional  the Federal Treasury to pre-authorize
on  commercial  bank  Govemments to end, as of lanuary 1, 1998, the use  contracts signed by budget-funded
financing of budgetary  of arrears offset arrangements at the regional level.   organizations.  In  the   interim,
organizations    and                                                     Govemment Resolution No. 441 of
enterprises.           Further to Government Resolutions #903, 927, 928,  May 14, 1998 (on implementing the
on September 2, 1997, the Govemment issued  1998 federal budget) establishes a
Resolution #1129, amending the framework for  mechanism  for enhanced Treasury
clearing the existing  stock  of energy  arrears  measurement   of   commitments,
(budgetary arrears to energy suppliers and suppliers'  including sanctions for officials who
tax arrears).                                    sign contracts in excess of approved
.___________________                                                                   spending  limits.
The Govemment will ensure that the accounts payable of budget organizations to infrastructure monopolies at no time exceed 30 davs of current sales for
sales  after July   1,  1998.        _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _      _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _
c) Switch  to  new                           The Government has made substantial progress in  In the context of broad reform  of the  The govemment will by September 1, 1998, close all  By January 1, 1999. complete moving all federal
computerized                                 introducing the computerized treasury system  of  budget   execution   system   the  off-budget accounts that are of a budgetary nature and  agencies into the federal treasury.
Treasury  system  of                         accounting and direct payments. The volume of  Govemment will during 1998: (i)  have flows intermediated by the federal treasury.
accounting.                                  payments processed by the federal Treasury has   develop  a system  with a single



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 6
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2       Actions Taken Prior to Board       Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche   Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                          Presentation of SAL3          Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                     of SAL3
SALI                                                                                                                                                          (estimated June 30, 1999)
been steadily increased through 1997 and as of  Treasury account: (ii) transfer off-
September 30, 1997, the Govemment is processing  budgetary  accounts  of budgetary
31 percent of the monthly outlays of the federal  organizations to the Treasury; (iii)
budget through this system.                    issue  regulations  and  streamline
procedures of the Treasury system of
budget    execution,    including
procedures for main distributors,
distributors  and   end-users  of
budgetary  funds; (iv) unify  the
informnation and telecommunication
systems of the Treasury; and (v)
serve   budgetary   organizations,
located in the regions without federal
Treasury  branches,  by  Treasury
branches in neighboring regions.
(Ref. Govemment Resolution # 1082).
To  control  cash  spending  and
improve expenditure management the
Govemment       has      adopted
(Govemment Directive No. 970-r of
July 17, 1998) a revised timetable to
complete moving the operations of all
federal agencies into the federai
treasury by January 1, 1999. This
includes all budget recipients of the
Ministry of Defense, the operations
of all the earmarked budget funds,
(including the Road Fund and
Customs System Development Fund),
and all foreign exchange accounts of
the  STS   and   State  Customs
Committee. Customs operations will
be transferred to the Federal Treasury
only on January 15, 1999. As of July
16, 1998, only one of nine military
districts is in the Treasury; for the
rest, there has been no budget
financing since July I, 1998.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2          Actions Taken Prior to Board        Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche     Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                             Presentation of SAL3           Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                        of SAL3
SALI                                                                                                                                                                 (estimated June 30, 1999)
d)            Movc                           The Government's 1998 budget includes the budgets
extrabudgetary funds                         of the social extrabudgetary funds in parallel with
onto the budget and                          the federal budget.
the treasury system.
e)  Establish  sound                         A  new  draft Budget Code developed  by the  The Law on the Budget Code was
legal-institutional                          Govemment and the State Duma has been passed in  adopted by the Federal Assembly.
basis for budget and                        its first reading by the State Duma. Its provisions on
treasury management                          budget    responsibilities,    comprehensiveness,
unification, monitoring, reporting, auditing, etc.
provide a solid basis for regularizing the entire
sphere of budget operations and dramatically
improving their tamnsparency and efficienc%.
I)       Rationazize  Presidential Decree No.  The Government has undertaken a number of steps  The    Govemment's    Economic  Building upon the census and rationalization of
govemment spending  305   "On   Priority  to accelerate refornts in the housing sector and to  Stabilization and Finance Program is  govemment employment under the Fiscal Action
Measures to  Combat  reduce the fiscal burden associated with housing  being implemented and the 1999  Plan, the Government will, by December 1, 1998
Corruption and Reduce  subsidies, which are the single largest subsidy item  federal budget is being prepared in  present its proposals for Administrative Reform to the
Budget   Expenditures  remaining in the fiscal system. A  Government  accordance with the parameters set  President,  specifying  the  functions  that  the
Through    Organizing  Commission was established to oversee housing and  forth in the Presidential Address of  government will be carrying out in the future and
Auctions  to  Procure  utility reforms, led by the First Deputy Prime  July 17, 1998.                        steps aimed at improved efficiency in government
Goods,   Construction  Minister. The Govemment has approved a system of                                      structure and staffing.
Works, and Services for  federal standards in housing policy, which provides
State Needs" was issued  subnational Govemments with explicit benchmarks
on April 8, 1997 to  for reform implementation and budget savings. The
reform         public  Commission has worked out a medium term plan for
procurement            the  preparation  of Govemment decisions  to
procedures,  requiring  accelerate sector reforms. As a result, average
standardized,          housing (utility and maintenance) prices charged to
competitive, open, and  households have risen by 10 percent in real terms, as
nondiscriminatory      of the end of September 1997, compared to the end
bidding procedures, and  of 1996.
establishing conflict of
interest regulations. The  The Government has submitted to the State Duma a
decree        requires  draft law to reform public procurement procedures
competitive    bidding  requiring  standardized, competitive, open, and
procedures  for   all  nondiscriminatory bidding procedures which has
federal agencies.      passed its first reading.
As of June 30, 1997, all grain and food procurement
using federal budgetary funds is subject to
competitive tendering.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 8
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2        Actions Taken Prior to Board      Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                         Presentation of SAL3          Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                      of SAL3
._   SALI                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(estimated June 30, 1999)
The Government has conducted no less than 10
competitive tenders for large (i.e. valued in excess of
__________________  _ ________________   Rbl 50 billion) capital projects.                                       .
IV. Reform of Extrabudgetary Funds and Earmarked Budget Funds
To           improve                                                                         By July 31, 1998, the Govemment T Should these measures prove insufficient to restore i In order to achieve the necessary adjustment in federal
transparency and reduce                                                                      will issue a rcsolution mandating  Pension Fund balance by September 1, 1998, the  expenditures and meet the 1999 fiscal targets. the
waste in exttabudgetaty                                                                      annual audits, carried out in line with  Govemment will either reduce pension benefits  Government will seek to remove the earmarked status
funds,                                                                                      international auditing standards and  starting with those above  the minimum or further  of the various budget funds in the 1999 Budget Law
supervised  by  the  Ministry  of  increase the payroll tax surcharge (in order to restore  (in particular of the Road Fund and Customs System
Finance, of the Social Insurance  Pension Fund balance). Further efforts will also be  Development Fund), and have their revenue sources
Fund, Medical Insurance Fund and  made to reduce the administration costs of the, accrue to the general revenue of the federal budget.
the Road Fund.                     Pension  Fund.  In  order  to  ensure  budget  The expenditures of the Road Fund will be closely
organizations comply with their obligations to the PF,  scrutinized with a view to reducing their outlays by 30
A Presidential Decree dated July 4,  from September 1. 1998 the Federal Treasury will  percent in 1999. The expenditures of the Road Fund
1998    prohibits   all   federal I transfer directly to the PF federal allocations for  wvill be brought under federal treasury control and its
extrabudgetary  funds  (with  the I payroll tax payments on  budgetary employee's  expenditure commitments will be subject to the some
exception of the Pension Fund) from   wages.                                       contract preappro'val as other budgetary spending.
borrowing from any private financial
institution. The Decree as issued  In order to ensure budget organizations comply with  By December 31, 1999. complete audits of 1998
gives the Pension Fund scope for  their obligations to the PF, from September 1. 1998  accounts of the Social Insurance Fund. Medical
borrowing beyond what is needed to  the Federal Treasury will transfer directly to the PF  Insurance Fund and the Road Fund.
manage liquidity. The Ministry of  federal allocations for payroll tax payments on
Finance has prepared a draft proposal  budgetary emplovee's wages.
to  limit  the   Pension   Fund's
borrowing to the level on April 1,  The July 17, 1998 presidential address on the
1998.                             principles of the 1999 budget will instruct the
Govemment to  have the  Employment Fund's
A number of actions are envisaged to  revenues collected by the STS as of January 1, 1999
restore the solvency of the Pension  on an earmarked basis. The Employment Fund will be
Fund. A Government Resolution has  subjected to treasury control from October 1, 1998.
been issued that introduces, as of
August 1. 1998, a temporary  2  By November 1, 1998, award contracts for the audits
percent earmarked tax surcharge on  of 1998 accounts of the Social Insurance Fund,
the personal incomes to be paid to the  Medical Insurance Fund and the Road Fund.
Pension Fund. This same resolution
will also expand the base for the  The president's budget address of July 17, 1998
employer contribution. The surcharge  instructs the government to ensure the reduction of
will remain in place and further I the payroll tax earmarked for the Social Insurance
.________________________________________________  increases in pension benefits will be  Fund to 4.9 percent (from 5.4 percent) and at the



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 9
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2       Actions Taken Prior to Board       Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche   Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                         Presentation of SAL3           Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                     of SAL3
SALI                                                                                                                                                          (estimated June 30. 1999)
avoided as long as the Pension Fund  same time the government will elaborate measures to
remains in deficit or new pension  reduce the overall expenditures of the Social
arrears are being accumulated. In  Insurance Fund by 25% in 1999. This will involve
addition, legislation will be proposed  eliminating all expenditures that are not directly
to the Duma in the special August  related to providing insurance related benefits (e.g.
session, that will expand the base for  sick leave and maternity benefits). Any resulting
both employee and employer payroll  surplus in the SIF will be transferred to the Pension
tax contributions, and will shift the  Fund for payment of pension benefits.
burden of the tax from employers to
employees.
V. Intergovernmrnetal Fiscal Relations
To put in place bWsic  Govemment Resolution  The Government has decided to undertake a  The  Government  is  introduce  By September 30, 1998, the Govemment will prepare  The Government will submit to the Duma appropriate
elements           of No. 621 issued on May  comprehensive restructuring of intergovernmental  amendments to the Law on Fiscal  another detailed Concept Paper establishing the  legislative drafts on sub-national fiscal reform or has
intergovernmental fisal  5.   1997,   requires  fiscal relations and set up a Working Group of its  Foundations   of   Local   Self-  principles for reform of sub-regional government  issued other legal acts to provide for clear assignments
relationships    that transfers  from   the  Govemment Commission on Economic Reforms to  govemance  to  make  it  fully  fiscal relations.                                     of revenue and expenditure responsibilities for each
encourage     refonn, Federal   Equalization  develop the reform program. The Working Group  consistent with the provisions of the                                              level of govemment consistent with the concept papers
improve tax collection,  Fund  to  be  made  has developed a program  for restructuring the  Tax and Budget Codes (sections  The two concept papers will cover the formulation of  prepared by the Govemment under the Program.
eliminate    unfunded  conditional on regions'  current system of federal budget transfers to regions  concerning intergovemmental fiscal  expenditure and revenue assignments for the different
mandates, and promotes  compliance with newly  for 1998-99. The Federal law "On Fundamental  relations).                       levels of Govemment, and a reformulated system of  By April 1, 1999, appropriate legislation will be
equitable treatment of established   federal  Financial Principles Of Local Self-Governance In                                 financial flows from federal to regional govemments.  submitted to the Duma or other legal acts will be
regions,               guidelines       and  The Russian Federation" adopted on September 25,  Govemment Resolution  No. 555  Three mechanisms for channeling all federal support  completed, to provide clear assignments of revenue
standards on  housing  1997  provides  a  new  legal framework  for  specifies conditional budget transfers  to the regions will be set out in detail in these papers:  and expenditure responsibilities for each level of
reform. This lays the  intergovenmmental tax revenue sharing.         to regions based on meeting 40  (i) the Fund for Financial Support to Regions (FFSR-  government. These measures will establish inter alia.
basis for the first type                                              percent target for cost recovery on  transfers for equalization), (ii) the Fund for Regional  (i) a more stable and fully transparent system  of
of conditional transfers  The Government's 1998 budget: (i) requires a  housing  and  communal services.  Development (FRD- loans and grants for public  revenue assignments, (ii) total budget revenue capacity
in Russia.            concentration of federal transfers among the most  Average cost recovery is now  42  investment), and (iii) the Fund for the Development  at each level of govemment commensurate with their
needy regions; (ii) reflects the recommendations of  percent.                     of Regional Finances (FDRF-loans for reform).   respective expenditure  responsibilities. (iii) clear
the Protocol of the Commission on Housing Reform.                                                                                 criteria under which regional and local authorities maoy
of July 22, 1997 and makes thip level of equalization  A draft concept paper for the reform                                       be allowed to set regional tax rates, (iv) the principles
transfers to regions conditional on compliance with  of fiscal federal relations has been                                         under which loans, transfers and grants between levels
federal housing standards; and (iii) introduces a  prepared    and    discussed   in                                              of govemment will be conditional on compliance with
separate mechanism for ear-mtarked federal transfers  Government, and  minutes  of a                                             | stated criteria or on the basis of bilateral agreements,
to regional Medical Insurance Funds.           Govemment review  meeting have                                                     and (v) terms under which resources of the FDRF will
been signed. By July 30, 1998, the                                                 be made available to regional govemments. These
An Instuction was issued by the Govenmuent  Govemment will approve a revised                                                      principles will be fully reflected in preparation of the
Commission on Housing and Utility Reform  in  Concept Paper on  Sub-National                                                      2000 Federal budget and the budgets of subjects of the
August, 1997, which specifies rules and procedures  Fiscal Reform  which will, inter alia,                                        Federation.
for determining the level of federal transfers to  provide clear conceptual guidelines
regions conditional on the extent of compliance with  for the reform  of sub-national fiscal                                     | As an intermediate step. a nes formula for allocating
federal housing standards.                    relations between the federal and  _                                                resources transferred to regions through the FFSR.



Attachment S: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 10
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2       Actions Taken Prior to Board       Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                          Pretentation of SAL3          Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                     of SAL3
SALI                                                                                                                                                           (estimated June 30, 1999)
regional levels of govenmment                                                      based on the Concept Paper on Subnational Fiscal
By November 30. 1997, the Govemment of the                                                                                         Reform, will be incorporated in the draft 1999 Budget
Russian Federation issued a resolution authorizing                                                                                 Law. By June 1. 1999 additional revisions to the
the Economic Reform Commission to develop, by                                                                                     formula for transfer allocation will be adopted through
January 31, 1998: (i) the concept of reforming the                                                                                 a goverment resolution, to be incorporated in the
system of interbudgetaty fiscal transfem; and (ii) an                                                                              2000 Budget Law, which will be based on the
action plan and implementation schedule, starting                                                                                  objectives of (i) reducing inequality  of revenue
from  a detailed survey of the reform  program                                                                                     capacity of subjects of the federation, (ii) use of
(including consultations with regional bodies of                                                                                   federally  defined  expenditure  norms  to  define
executive  power and  the  State Duma), and                                                                                        expenditure needs, and (iii) strengthening incentives
stipulating its incorporation in the Govemment's                                                                                  for regions to inease revenue collection.
draft budget for 1999. In accordance with that
resolution, the Govemment's conccpt of reforming
the system of interbudgetary fiscal relations
includes: (i) rationalization of the system used to
classify regions into categories; (ii) changing the
criteria determining the amount of transfers (based
on the assessment of the regional GDP and/or fiscal
capacity of the region, and standards, level and cost
of provision of public services); (iii) introduction of
arrangements that would encourage regions to
implement reforms in the budget sector, (iv)
introduction  of  conditionalities  of  transfers
(including the implementation of satisfactory
independent audits of the budget and ensuring
compliance with the federal legislation); (v) gradual
transition to the delivery of federal transfers
exclusively through the Treasury system; and (vi)
introduction of special transfer arrangements for
VI.Sovrein_ad_u_onl _Brroin  ,regions heavily dependent on federal transfers.
Vl. Sovereign  and  Sul naffonal BorrowIng     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
To ensure that public  On  May  12,  1997,  The draft law regulating subnational borrowing that                                 The government will strengthen sovereign and sub-  The Govemment will take all measures necessary (i) to
borrowing is monitored  comprehensive         had been submitted by the Govenrment to thc State                                 national debt monitoring to significantly improve the  include guaramtees, other public contingent liabilities
and held within prudent  legislation   regulating  Duma in May 1997 has been passed in its first                                coordination  and  management of external and  or conditional obligations in the definition of public
limitations.          subnational govemment  reading. With its passage and final enactment                                      domestic debt, at both federal and sub-national levels,  debt applicable to the federal and sub-national level;
borrowing        was  remaining uncertain as of mid-November, 1997. the                                  within the Ministry of Finance.                  (ii) to establish a public debt monitoring system
submitted to the State  Government has submitted to the Office of the                                                                                     including a comprehensive monitoring system of sub-
Duma.    This  draft  President a draft Presidential Decree to regulate                                  Any necessary legal acts or decisions to implement an  national debt portfolios: (iii) to establish transparent
legislation included: (i)  subnadional  Govemmens'  extemal  borrowing                                  expanded dcfinition of public debt-to include budget  prudential limitation  and preconditions for sub-
a definition of the types  through issuance of securities. The draft decree (i)                          arrears, guarantees, and other public contingent  national borrowing; and (iv) to provide for verification



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reforrn - Page 11
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective      Actions Taken For       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2       Actions Taken Prior to Board       Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche   Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche Release
Board Approval of                                                          Presentation of SAL3          Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)                     of SAL3
SALI                                                                                                                                                           (estimated June 30, 1999)
of securities that can be  requires, inter alia, the compliance of borrowing                             liabilities or conditional obligations-will be adopted  by the Ministry of Finance that any sub-national debt
issued by local/regional  subnational  govemments  with  federal  fiscal                                 before September l, 1998.                       is incurred in accordance with such limitations and
govenmments      and  regulations; and (ii) includes monitorable ceilings on                                                                             preconditions for it to become a valid obligation of the
extrabudgetary  funds;  both the total debt stock and the annual debt service                                                                            respective sub-national entity.
(ii)  conditions   for  flow of subnational Govenmuents. Until the relevant
issuanee   of   these  regulation becomes effective, through either law or                                                                               By January 1, 1999, the Govemment will initiate an
securities     (e.g.,  Presidential Decree, the Ministry of Finance will not                                                                             integrated public debt monitoring system  in the
disclosure     rules,  register intemational security issues by subnational                                                                              Ministry of Finance which will cover both sovereign
collatera requirements,  Govemments, and any such registration would                                                                                     and sub-national debt, including all obligations of
and debt ceilings); and  require, at a minimum, compliance with the                                                                                      federal and sub-national authorities. In particular, the
(iii) exposure limits.  conditions on subnational borrowing by the regions                                                                               debt management system will cover all public debt
of Moscow, Nizhniy Novgorod, and St. Petersburg                                                                                   including budget arrears, guarantees, and other public
outlined in Presidential Decree No. 304 of April 8,                                                                               contingent liabilities or conditional obligations.
1997. Moreover, the federal Govemmcnt continues
to refrain from any guarantees on borrowing by                                                                                    To improve oversight of sub-national debt. the
subnational entities.                                                                                                             Govemment will submit to the Duma with a view to
enactment by January 1, 1999, or will issue
regulations, as necessary, to (i) establish satisfactory
and   transparent   prudential  limitations   and
preconditions for sub-national borrowing, (ii) provide
for verification by the Ministry of Finance that these
limitations and preconditions have been met. as a
condition for such borrowing to be a valid obligation
of subnational govemments, and (iii) establish a
central registration capacity of sub-national public debt
in the Ministry of Finance.
By February 1, 1999 the Govermment shall complete a
Report with comprehensive and detailed accounting of
all federal level obligations as of December 31. 1998.
By May 1, 1999, a Report with comprehensive and
detailed  accounting  of  all  sub-national  level
obligations shall be prepared, with reporting current
____________________                                through December 31, 1998.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Financial Sector Reform - Page 1
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board Approval   Actions Taken For Board Approval of   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  I Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
of SALI|                           SAL2                                    SAL3                      Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)  Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30. 1999)
L Baning Reform
To     improve    the                                                                         The CBR vill continue to increase the transparency of its own operations and will put in place requirements to increase transparency for commercial
soundness,   efficiency,                                                                      banks. The policy of announcing weekly data on external reserves, begun in June, will be expanded to include the announcement of base money. The
ranaparency        and                                                                        CBR will publish summary information on the financial situation of the 30 largest banks on a monthly basis and a requirement will be introduced for
competitiveness  of tie                                                                       banks to provide quarterly disclosures of key information. The standards for disclosure by banks holding more than 10 percent of household deposits
banking system.                                                                               in the banking system will be significantly expanded.
By August 1. 1998, the ten largest banks will  The CBR will begin developing a strategy for
be required to publish quarterly accounts,  fostering competition and a strong and efficient
have annual accounts prepared and audited by  banking sector in the long run. A draft of such a
a reputable, qualified firm, and make the  strategy will be prepared by end-1998.
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   results public.
a) Facilitate resolution  On the basis of its evaluation of the  On the basis of plans submitted by  The  CBR   continuously  monitors  the  The CBR and the government will devise a  Over the short to medium term, the CBR will
of illiquid or insolvent  largest 200  banks  and  other  problem  banks, CBR  has decided  implementation of the recapitalization and  comprehensive approach for addressing medium   continue withdrawing licenses of weak and
banks.                available information, the CBR has  whether  these  banks  are  to  be  rehabilitation plans of the identified problem   and large problem banks which will include: (i)  insolvent banks and streamlining the banking
identified those banks that have  recapitalized  and  rehabilitated,  or  banks.   Should   the   recapitalization I diagnosis; (ii) corrective  action: (ii)  bank  sector. liquidation of small insolvent banks
negative capital or other serious  whether other statutory procedures as  rehabilitation fail to achieve its objectives, the  restructuring: and (iii) bank liquidation. Such a  (with capital of less than ECU I million) will
problems. At end-February 1997  per the banking legislation should be  CBR will take necessary actions including the I strategy will be reflected in a bank restructuring  be stepped-up and their licenses will be
the CBR informed such banks that  applied, including the withdrawal of  withdrawal of licenses.                framework to be prepared by October 31, 1998.  revoked by January 1, 2000 should they not
they will be required to prepare  bank licenses. Of 27 identified problem                                      The framework will be formulated on the basis of  reach the new minimum requirement.
plans for increasing their capital  banks in the top 200 banks, 10 banks  New  problem  banks are being identified  a full diagnosis of the size and nature of the
and   for  their   operational  have had their licenses withdrawn. A  through  the  CBR's  on-going  on-site  problem  and will involve setting out uniform
rehabilitation, for submission to  number of banks have had their licenses  inspections and fiuture evaluation of other  rules and procedures to be followed.
the CBR on or before April 30,  restricted.                          banks. Those identified problem banks are
1997.                                                               required   to   submit  recapitalization
rehabilitation plans. Based on an assessment
of those plans, the CBR will decide whether to
place the banks under rehabilitation, interim
administration, or external management or to
withdraw their licenses.               I
b) Put in place effective  In March 1997, steps were taken to  Legislation on bankruptcy of financial  The CBR continues to build up the necessary  The govemment and the CBR will make every
bank  bankruptcy  and  modify the current legislation in  institutions was submitted to and passed  institutional capacity to ensure that the new  effort to have the Bank Bankruptcy Lawv and the
liquidation legislation.   order to specify the procedures for  in its first reading by the State Duma in  legislation on the bankruptcy of financial  laws amending the CBR Law and the Law on
withdrawing bank licenses and for  June 1997.                        institutions can be implemented effectively  Banks and Banking Activities enacted by end-
the subsequent timely liquidation                                    once it is passed by the Duma.            1998 to improve the CBR's supervisory powers
ofthe delicensed institutions.  The Govemment and the CBR took                                                 and to provide an adequate legal basis for the
measures to ensure expeditious State                                           bank restructuring framework. These lasvs will
Duma deliberation of the law  on                                              include adequate provisions to strengthen the
bankruptcy of lending institutions, and                                        regulatory powers of the CBR, including revoking
took steps to facilitate passage of this                                      licenses, effectively liquidating insolvent banks,
law.                                                                           and  imposing  further  liability  on  banks'
shareholdera.
e)  Ensure  that any                                   The Govemnment and the CBR took  Draft legislation currently under revision to reviehoners
deposit     guarantee  ___________________________ measures  to  ensure  State  Duma  make it consistent with the banking sector



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Financial Sector Reform - Page 2
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Policy Objective    Actions Taken For Board Approval   Actions Taken For Board Approval of   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
ofSALI                              SAL2                                   SAL3                      Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)    Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
swheme that is adopted                                 deliberation of the law  on deposit  competition strategy being developed by the
has pndent coverage of                                 insurance and took steps to facilitate  CBR.
fmancial   institutiens                                passage of this law. Any  deposit
and deposits and is self-                             insurance schemes that is implemented
financing.                                             will be funded only by premiums of
participating banks and the associated
investment income, with no use of CBR
or government resources.
d) Strengthen banking  On-site inspections of 53 of the  On-site inspections of another 15 of the  The program  of on-site  inspections has  Prudential norms on banks' off-balance sheet  More stringent prudential rules, especially with
supervision    tbrough  largest banks were completed by  100 largest banks have been completed  expanded.                             foreign currency exposure will be strengthened,  regard to banks' foreign exchange operations
grater use of on-site  the end of June.               in the third quarter of 1997. In the first                                      by September 30, 1998, through the imposition of  and positions, will be adopted. The requirement
inspeesions      md                                    nine  months  of  1997,  68  bank  During 1998, the CBR  will continue to  limits on single party and connected  party  to provide consolidated reports beginning on
improved    prelntl                                    inspections were completed.          improve the system of prudential regulations  exposure, and out-of-money options will no  January 1, 1999 will be extended to non-bank
regulations                                                                                 to meet - or where appropriate exceed -  longer be considered adequate for covering on-  financial institutions.
The CBR has continued to improve the  international standards.                 balance sheet exposure.
system   of  prudential  regulatons                                                                                         The government and the CBR .vill make every
established by Instruction I of January  The CBR has simplified (CBR Directive No.                                          effort to ensure that amendments to the Central
30, 1996, with a view  to moving  156-u  of  February  1,  1998)  reserve                                                   Bank Law to expand consolidated reporting to
prudential  regulations   closer  to  requirement procedures through establishment                                          non-bank subsidiaries of commercial banks will
international standards. During 1997,  of a single uniform rate for funds denominated                                       be adopted by January 1, 1999, sufficiently
the  CBR  has, inter alia: revised  both in nubles and in foreign currency,                                                 prior to the implementation of such reporting
procedures for calculating banks' own  regardless of the term for which the resources                                       from July 1, 1999.
resources (capital); increased capital  are obtained.
adequacy requirements and lowered the                                                                                       From  July 1, 1999, expanded consolidated
tied  credit  ratio;  and  introduced  CBR Regulation No. 29-p of May 12, 1998,                                             reporting  to  non-bank  subsidiaries  of
necessary changes in the calculation of  On  Consolidated  Reports  of  Lending                                             commercial banks will be implemented.
banks' prudential requirements, with a  Institutions, is approved. The CBR set a list of
view to incorporating off-balance-sheet  lending institutions to provide consolidated
claims and liabilities.             repors, starting with reports on July 1, 1998
(CBR Directive No. 260-u of June 6, 1998).
e) Refm  acounting                                     The CBR, MinFin, and STS revised the  The finalized chart of accounts has been  By September 30, 1998, the CBR will adopt a  By January 1, 1999, and in tandem with the
requirements for baks                                  procedure of making and use of loan  applied  by  lending  institutions in  their  timetable to introduce accrual accounting for  Tax Code, the CBR will bring the Russian
by   moving  toward                                   provisions, with a view to making the  operations as of January 1, 1998.        banks, with a view to introduce such accounting  accounting standards in full conformity with
internationalstandatI.                                 necessary reserves in all cases where                                          on January I. 1999 if the Tax Code is in effect at  the  main  principles  of the  International
repayment in full is considered unlikely,                                     that time.                                    Accounting    Standards    (IAS).    The
including cases where loans are not                                                                                         appropriateness of the introduction, by January
currently nonperforming but there are                                                                                       1, 1999, of 100 percent pre-tax provisioning for
reasons to believe that the borrower is                                                                                     bad loans of commercial banks will be assessed
insolvent. In doing so. the CBR. the                                                                                        in the context of the review of the program.
Ministry of Finance, and the State Tax
Service are not allowing banks' tax
burdens to increase unduly as a result of
the new provisioning rules.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Financial Sector Reform - Page 3
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Policy Objective     Actions Taken For Board Approval   Actions Taken For Board Approval of   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of    Actions To Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche  Actions To Be Taken Prior to Third Tranche
of SALI                              SAL2                                     SAL3                       Release of SAL3 (estimated December 31, 1998)    Release of SAL3 (estimated June 30, 1999)
f) Improve functioning  The CBR introduced reverse repo  The   Central  Bank   has  drafted  CBR has taken steps to establish an interbank
of money markets by  operations to allow for a temporary  regulations specifying the procedures  repo market for a wide number of banks both
putting in place new  reduction  in  the  volume  of  for conducting transactions for giving  in Moscow and in the regions.
monetary  instruments  liquidity in the banking system.  Lombard   credits  and   same-day
and  developing  open                                    settlement loans  collateralized  with  CBR Executive Order No. OD-267 of June 5,
market operations  to                                    govemment  securities   based   on  1998, On Making Operations to Refinance
give banks the liquidity                                 preliminary deposits of securities by  Banks by the Bank of Russia made effective
management       tools                                   banks  on   special  DEPO   bank  Resolution No. 19-p of March 6, 1998, On the
available  in   other                                    subaccounts, The Central Bank will  Procedure of Providing Credits by the Bank of
developed     banking                                    approve the above regulations so as to  Russia  to   Banks,  Collateralized   with
systems.                                                 provide for their implementation.     Govemment Securities, and expanded it to
banks of Moscow region.
The CBR put in place an arrangement to
allow primary dealers to take short
positions in govemment securities, and
it will also repeal the prohibition on the
use  by  all banks  of govemment
securities as collateral, and will ensure
that mechanisms are in place to pledge I
collateral for same-day transactions.
g)  Improve  payment  On February 28, 1997, the CBR - In June and July 1997, the CBR issued  The CBR has introduced (CBR Directives-No. 
system by introducing a  introduced a multi-window system   normative concepts for the Real-Time   18-p of February 20, 1998 and No. 19 1-u of
real-time       gross  for processing commercial banks'  Gross Settlement (RTGS) system  and  March 24, 1998) the technology of settlements
settlement systertn and  payments  in  vMoscow  region,  for the development of the settlements  without paper documents betoveen the credit
providing incentives for  making  payments  from  banks'  system.                              institutions in Moscow.
banks  to  use  new   accounts  irrevocable  once   a
electronic   settlement  payment order is submitted to the                                     The CBR has developed and approved the
services.              CBR. Following each window, the !                                       normative   framework  to  ensure  the
CBR  provides  information  to                                        i functioning of the RTGS system.
banks on their correspondent
account balances. A "cut-off' hour
for same-day client payments was
introduced to allow banks to settle
their positions during the last
window by borrowing in the
interbank market or from the CBR.



MAP SECTION



IBIL) 21 I BBK
UN.TED STATES OF A-EPICA
The boD--le, -ohr, d...naosf   
thodmpd enolesipmlytearo i                                                                                        RUSSIAN   FEDERATION
TS.  s- do   ,wp- y o-, IFoo-
oelhTo logdaoose$tuC rOf Pny soT   oooopooNsoI  .REPUBLICS, KRAIS, OBLASTS, OKRUGS
osuhbwuidoooie
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
0512  6                             '       '                                                      '                                        AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*ol7ud/Ig Fep,bhcs af Adygey, AI.,1 K-oohaeo,-ChOr,MS. me- d Khs-/y.
r                             "-
flIISE71LA' III  zEl -1     L-             S WE D EN                                                                                                                                                                                                                          82 
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
IELARU          7'       21
... t,          -.                                                2 
~~t   J  tv- ~~~~~~~~>lJ  ^                                1~~~~                                                                                                                                89
I- I-_.                                   16
EC-[)                                        -,2         2                                       4
8OA   A 3 IF EA tX E    /                        ,-                    9                                                                                                            1 16  6                                                   3        )8
S.    <Q '             27        sl      48            59         '57                    58
1  47        45 
JAPAN
r  >,   45   44     6/  ~      6              75                             73                                                                     84
34                        o,,S                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 7                       8
3g   ';   (         %                   J   > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-~~~~  6~5                                                                                   70            7              
\31   38  40                                                                                64
'55                                                         ?80f ).                                                     5                                        su                         J o3 74  72 72
T J R   T r I                                                                                                                                            77                                                            -1H    N A
MRh.t                                     h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A Z A K H S T A rJ                   61                                 v      /     -                               S        l       
A-  31~0097941                                                                                                                              
>j  (Y                                                                     7   ITT   577 n0   iTO To   OT oolSIES          '          92        .r '   - -            r;()  
TT41' F tZ r;L   R; it   r7ss J 1   _   j  1 7PF.IoTOT.\                          St 20c    anr   61 n    Fnr h zMFrF?5   -^.  M  o  40   N  G  O            /                                     /L  Ao4
ATkTOnqe          7 Noiqorod                12 BryaTsk   22 Tul                                             30 Che-hen                     40 AsSrakh-n             48 Chuos-h                 53 B.Shk-Ot-Ot-F        61 Alt.,                   70 B,,yTt                  80 Amur
2 T-CFC,S        8 Pskov                    13  -onova   23 V  di-r             25 Be good                 31  DeIIstOn                    41  KaImykb-            49 Ki-ov                    54 Chely-biksh             62 GOOFy Alt.,         71  Chil                    81 K-mchTtko
3 K-,e ,o           9 Le- Tg-sJ                14 Kologo    24 Yaros aol           26 Kj,sk                   32 Iogush                           "h.1mg Tongch       50 M-o,y E                  55 KOEgOF              63 Keme-ooo                    72 Ag,o BuTyOT             82 K91(0y
4 Kot               10 St eo-bIu1q7            15 KoOtrOOT                         27 Lipelok                 33 Kob-rdmc Bol1kr              42  Pe'zo               51 Mo,dov                   56 OT-bTuT             64 Noooslh,Tso             72  TroL                   E3 Khoboroioh
5 Mu_m,90k                                     18 Moscow                           28 T-m6oo                  34 Kreseoea                     43 Somere               52 N STe,y Noogorod        57 PeT-                 65 Om-k                        74 USt-OFdyT  EuFyOt       84 Jev sh A4
6 0010909                                      17 Mo,co-  Cty                      29 VO000FCk                    35 Adygeya                  44 S-roo-                                             5TB  Koe- Pe-,,,o   66 Tomsk                    75 K--sooyo-s,              85 Mogedoc
I8 Orel                                                        36  'Iorth Os.e.ia              45 Torr-tln-                                       59 Ud-rl                67 Tyme-                       76 Evenk                   86 Churot
19 Ryazan                                                      37 R-t-O                        46 Vo19.o9,d                                       60 S-erd,o-ok              68 Khonty-MEns             77 KhekLk               87 Pr--orok
20 S-mleos-                                                    38 Strooropol                   47 Uly,o,osk                                                                  69 Y-1moloN-ets            78 To mlr               88 Sakhohn
11 K.in ogrod              21 Tier                                                            39 KT-ohToeoo-Cherkess                                                                                                            79 Too                     89 S5-ko (YToL9)
DECE.BER 1995



