Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4382 RU
Loan Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 6 , 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4382 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  August 6, 1998, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated July 17, 1998 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 as amended 
through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11,18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Bank and the Borrower 
shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency 
of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted.
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c)
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“Joint Stock Company Law” means the Law “On Joint Stock Companies” No. 
208-FZ, dated December 26, 1995; 
(c)
“Law on Production Sharing Agreements” means the Law No. 225-FZ, dated 
December 30, 1995;  
(d)
“RAO Gazprom” means the legal entity established by the Decree of the 
President of the Russian Federation, dated November 5, 1992, No. 1333; and 
(e)
“RAO UES Rossii” means the Russian Unified Electric Systems Company, the 
legal entity established pursuant to the Decree of the President of the Russian 
Federation, dated August 15, 1992, No. 923. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
billion five hundred million Dollars ($1,500,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
Page  3
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account:
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of $300,000,000, 
unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of 
Program; 
(B)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement 
have been taken; and 
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program;
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of $800,000,000, 
unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of 
Program; 
(B)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this 
Agreement have been taken; and 
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program; 
(e)
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the 
Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 
ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and 
taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
Page  4
(ii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iii)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one-half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall at least time to time,each 
month during execution of the Program or at the request of either party, exchange 
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
Page  5
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l)(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of Finance 
responsible for international economic affairs of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ul. Ilyinka, 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                 
    -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                      -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
     -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                   718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728.43             
 728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897                   897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                      -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
Page  7
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2002
through October 15, 2005
187,500,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
Section I:  Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (i) (B) of this Agreement
Section 1.
1.
RAO GAZPROM has reorganized its regional transmission operations into a single 
integrated transmission enterprise or into a number of transmission enterprises solely 
being responsible for gas transmission services, established in compliance with the 
Civil Code and based on major transmission corridors.  RAO GAZPROM has further 
Page  8
established separate management, separate accounts based on international accounting 
standards andauditedin accordance with international standards for auditing, and 
separate cost/profit responsibility for the new transmission enterprise or 
enterprises, the production enterprises, and its gas wholesaling enterprise or 
enterprises.
2.
The Borrower has established a revised system of gas excise taxes which applies 
the production rent component of the tax at the level of monopoly producers, including 
producers which are part of the Gazprom system, Yakutskgazprom, Norilskgazprom and 
Sakhalinmerneftegaz,  in a manner agreed upon by the Borrowerwithout reducing Federal 
tax revenue.  and the Bank.  
3.
The Law on Introduction of Changes and Additions to Legislative Actsproposed law 
on the introduction of changes and additions to legislative acts of the Russian 
Federation ensuing from the Law on Production Sharing Agreements, the implementation 
regulations relating to the Law on Production Sharing Agreements and any necessary 
amendments to the existing tax legislation to harmonize its provisions with the tax 
regime provided for in the Law on Production Sharing Agreements have been enacted and 
entered into force. 
4.
The Borrower is current with the implementation of the measures set forth  in 
the privatization programaction plan agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank. 
5.
An amendment to the Joint Stock Company Law has been adopted and entered into 
force providing for adequate protection of minority shareholders. 
6.
The proposed law on licensing has been adopted and entered into force. 
7.
The Borrower has issued a formal decision requiring all consumers of gas, heat 
and electricity to make payments for their purchases of gas heat and electricity into 
escrow accounts established jointly by producers, transporters, distributors and any 
other entities in the supply chain and has furnished a report to the Bank 
demonstrating it has taken all measures necessary on its part for the implementation 
of such decision. 
Section II.  Actions referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (B) of this Agreement 
1.
The Borrower’s Federal Energy Commission has introduced differentiated and 
separate prices for gas production, transmission and supply (delivery) services fully 
reflective of a revised methodology agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank.
2.
A newNew oil pipeline legislation has been adopted and entered into force.  
3.
The board of directors of RAO UES Rossii has adopted a plan for the 
establishment of a sufficient number of independent generation companies as legal 
subsidiaries of RAO UES Rossii to enable  effective competition.
4.
The Borrower is current with the implementation of the measures set forth in the 
privatization action plan agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank. program
5.
The proposed laws on state and municipal land, on the state land cadastre, on 
the appraisal of land and on land management have been adopted and entered into force.
6.
The proposed law on auditing has been adopted and entered into force providing 
for gradual transition of regulatory powers relating to auditing from the Federal 
bodies to a self-regulating independent auditing profession and regulations have been 
issued defining thirty-three (33) auditing standards in accordance with international 
standards for auditing.
7.
The Borrower has submitted to the Duma appropriate legislative drafts on 
sub-national fiscal reform or has issued other legal acts to provide for clear 
assignments of revenue and expenditure responsibilities for each level of government 
consistent with the concept papers prepared by the Borrower under the Program.
8.
The Borrower has provided to the Bank a report, in such scope as has been agreed 
upon by the Borrower and the Bank, demonstrating that the accounts payable of Federal 
budget organizations to infrastructure monopolies do not exceed thirty (30) days of 
Page  9
current sales incurred after July 1, 1998 and Federal transfer payments to regions are 
made in compliance with the principles set forth in Presidential Instruction No. 
PR-994, dated July 17, 1998.
9.
The Borrower has taken all measures necessary (i) to include guarantees, other 
public contingent liabilities or conditional obligations in the definition of public 
debt applicable to the federal and sub-national level; (ii) to establish a public debt 
monitoring system including a comprehensive monitoring system of sub-national debt 
portfolios; (iii) to establish transparent prudential limitation and preconditions for 
sub-national borrowing; and (iv) to provide for verification by the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance that any sub-national debt is incurred in accordance with such 
limitations and preconditions for it to become a valid obligation of the respective 
sub-national entity.
