Docutent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR  /70-e
Report No. P-4473-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $50 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
March 3, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMNDT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan Summary ...................................................   (i
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1s5*a*a*. .. .....ew.e.*..........    I
'J              A. An Overview. *......... . . . *     * * * *........... . ...    1
B. Recent Economic Developments ........................       2
PART II - PROBLEMS OF ECONOMIC STRUCTURE       .....           4
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM ....    5
A. Macroeconomic M     sagement ........................ ...    5
B. Agriculture and Forestry .  ........*.*......    9
C. Industry and Trade ... * ...... . . .... . .............    15
D. Public Enterprises ..................................   16
E. Development Implementation ..........................  s18
F. Social Impact ............... ........................   21
PART IV - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMT CREDIT..          ......   22
A. Background...:       ...........  , ,.                     22
B. Objectives and Description..........        .              22
C. Coordination with the IMF and Other Donors ..........     23
D. Credit Administration and Management .....   24
E. Procurement, Disbursements and Retroactive Financing   24
P. Tranching  ..............................,,.              25
G. Benefits and Risks ...              .....................  25
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL ................  26
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION ..,                                 28
Text Tables
Table 1:  Selected Economic Indicators .................   7
ANNEXES
Annex I   : Economic Indicators
Annex II  : Status of Bank Group Operations in Nepal
Annex III:  Supplementary Data Sheet
Annex IV  : Macro-economic Projections
Annex V   : Letter of Development Policy
Annex VI  : Policy Matrix
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i,
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:                SDR 40.9 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Credit Description:   The proposed credit would support the Government's
program of structural adjustment and stabilization.
The program aims at increasing investment and economic
growth by reducing controls. accelerating efficient use
of domestic and foreign resources. and promoting
exports.  The principal elements of the program
include: (i) macro-economic policies to strengthen
the countxy's budgetary and external finances and
maintain a realistic exchange rate; (ii) liberalizing
foreign trade and industrial policies; (iii) reducing
and improving the focus of government interventions in
the agricultural sector; (iv) conmencing the
restructuring of public sector enterprises and
improving their administration; and (v) improving the
administration of development expenditures.
Estimated
Disbursements:         The credit would be disbursed in two tranches. a first
tranche of SDR 20.45 million upon effectiveness and
the second tranche of SDR 20.45 million after a
performance review to be held in October 1987.



FOR OFmFCLIL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 40.9 MILLION
(US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit for SDR 40.9 million (US$50 million equivalent) on stand-
ard IDA terms to the Kingdom of Nepal to support the 1986/87 and 1987/88
Structural Adjustment Program of His Majesty's Government (HMC).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic memorandum (Report No. 5867-REP) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1985. Economic data appear in Annex I.
A.  An Overview
3.      Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita
income of about US$160; life expectancy, infant mortality, and adult literacy
rates are well below the South Asian norm and much of the country remains in
abject poverty. Over the past two decades, real GDP growth has barely kept
up with that of the population, which is now growing by 2.7 percent per
annum, and more recently per capita food production has been falling.
4.      The economy of Nepal comprises two geographically distinct regions --
the hills and the lowland terai which borders India. Historically the terai
was the source of cereal surpluses which were exported to India and the
hills. In recent years, however, a vicious circle has emerged as the poor
performance of the hills economy, exacerbated by population pressure, has led
to deforestation of slopes, loss of arable land, increasing food deficits and
further pressure on marginal lands and migration to the terai. The conse-
quent acceleration of soil erosion in the hills has contributed to down-
stream flooding and silting of rivers, which has contributed to the loss of
agricultural production, both actual and potential, in the terai; combined
with immigration the terai's exportable surplus has dwindled.
5.      Much of Nepal's poor record in respect of growth and development
derives from its meagre natural resource base and its landlocked position.
Agriculture dominates the economy, accounting for 60 percent of GDP, 75 per
cent of exports, and 90 per cent of employment. Moreover, much of the small-
industrial sector is agro-based. With irrigation facilities (which are
largely rudimentary) covering only about one eighth of arable land, agricul-
turaL output is highly vulnerable to the weather.
I Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
6.      Nepal shares a long and open border with India, is cut off and far
separated from sea routes and is influenced in many respects by the Indian
economy. Laws and regulations provide for a relatively free exchange between
the two economies; geography and private traders make it inevitable. The
implication of this is that economic conditions in India, and economic
policies adopted by India, set the framework for the Nepalese economy. Nepal
can have little or no influence over these factors which, conversely,
influence Nepal significantly. In practical terms this means that Nepal's
economic policies must, to a certain extent, accommodate this interrelated-
ness in a number of ways. For example, Nepal's prices are significantly
affected by demand and supply conditions in India and by India's economic and
financial policies.  Since India is the largest market for Nepal's goods as
well as the source of many Nepalese imports, conditions in India will
inevitably influence Nepal's economic prospects. This integration is likely
to grow once Nepal exploits its enormous potential to generate and market
hydroelectricity to India and to provide dams that can more efficiently
regulate the flow of rivers to the Cangetic Plain, improving the potential
for irrigation while reducing the incidence of flooding. ClearLy, Nepal's
supply of goods and services to India will substantially increase its demands
for goods and services produced there, given the limited convertibility of
the Indian Rupee.
7.        While geography and meager resource endowment have contributed to
faltering economic performance, another important factor has been the limited
capacity for managing the economy and administering the development program
(see para 57). The system of production incentives has been inadequate and
budgetary management has had many shortcomings. Weaknesses in public
administration are reflected in a combination of low public sector investment
as a percentage of CDP and the slow implementation of development projects.
B. Recent Economic Developments
8.      The period 1981/82-1984/85 (Nepal's fiscal year runs from July 15
to July 14) witnessed a significantly higher rate of real CDP growth than
that of the previous five years-3.4 percent per annum compared with only 2.1
percent per Annum. However, annual growth fluctuated widely an account of
drought. The overall level of investment averaged about 19 percent of CDP
financed in approximately equal shares by domestic and foreign sources. Poor
domestic budgetary revenue mobilization performance (with tax collection
averaging 9 per cent of CDP), was reflected in an overall fiscal deficit
averaging about 10 per cent of CDP. Domestic bank financing of the budget
averaged about four per cent of CDP.  Credit to the private sector and to
public sector corporations to offset continuing losses also expanded substan-
tially so that domestic credit expansion averaged more than 25 percent per
annum in the latter years of this period.
9.      The counterpart of this rapid domestic credit expansion emerged in
a balance of payments deficit as Nepal's external position deteriorated
substantially While Nepal, historically, has had sizable current account



-3-
deficits, until recently these were covered by highly concessional foreign
inflows. However, during 1982/83-1984/85, the cumulative balance of payments
deficit of US$120 milLion was financed principally by a draw-down of interna-
tional reserves; gross reserves fell from about B months of imports at the
end of 1981182.to about 3 months at the end of 1984/85.
10.     Most of Nepal's external debt has been contracted on highly conces-
sional terms. While the ratio of external debt to CDP and the ratio of debt
service payments to exports of goods, non-factor services and private remit-
tances remain low, both have increased steadily in recent years. During the
five-year period ending June 1985, the former rose from 10.1 percent of GDP
to 14.2 percent and the latter from 1.9 percent to 6.2 percent of exports and
remittances.
11.     In the face of the continuing deterioration in both internal and
external finances, the Government adopted a stabilization program in December
1985 and entered into a 14 month stand-by arrangement with the INM.
Principal elements of the program are: a devaluation of the rupee by 14.6
percent, with the exchange rate to be managed flexibly thereafter; tighter
budgetary policies with the initial focus on expenditure restraint, then on
revenue in 1986/87 fiscal year; reduced expansion of credit to Government and
public enterprises; adjustments in administered prices; restraints on exter-
nal borrowing; and import liberalization.
12.     Economic and financial performance improved in 1985/86.  As a result
of good weather, agrisulture rebounded. The introduction of a more liberal
industrial licensing policy, as well as improved supplies of electricity,
contributed to an expansion in the industrial sector and tourism receipts
rose significantly. Real economic growth was 4.2 per cent. As anticipated,
the impact of the devaluation and administered price adjustments was
immediate and strong. Inflation accelerated from 17 percent in November 1985
to 34 percent in February 1986 on a twelve-month point-to-point basis.
However, by late 1986 inflation had decelerated to below 10 percent, reflect-
ing the tighter demand management policies and an improved supply situation.
There were no wage adjustments in the Government sector, and private sector
wage increases have been significantly less than the rate of inflation.   As
was intended, the overall budget deficit was reduced, and the share of domes-
tic bank financing of the deficit was almost halved to 2 percent of GDP. The
overall balance of payments showed dramatic improvement, recording a surplus
of about US$15 million compared to the approximately US$53 million deficit of
the previous year.  In summary, the stabilization program has been effective
in contribiting to the correction of the external and internal financial
imbalances in the economy.



-4-
PART II -- PROBLEMS OF ECONOMIC STRUCTURE
13.     In the.attached Letter of Development Policy (LODP) HHG identifies a
number of areas of structural weakness in the economy. First, serious
environmental degradation (especially in the ecologically fragile hills and
mountains), a burgeoning population and pronounced dependency on the vagaries
of monsoon agriculture which have worsened living conditions in rural areas.
Second, macroeconomic management, although much improved since the inception
of the stabilization program, will require continued remedial efforts in the
areas of domestic resource mobilization and control of recurrent expenditures
and inflationary financing. Third, structural weaknesses have also con-
tributed to disappointing agricultural performance, exacerbated by excessive
and poorly-directed public sector interventions. Financially weak agricul-
tural institutions have not only been a drain on public sector finances but
have failed to provide the services for which they were constituted; and
excessive regulatory controls have also prevented more private sector initia-
tive from taking place in agriculture. Fourth, inappropriate industrial and
trade policies have been directed at encouraging manufacturing on the basis
of low-cost imported inputs. The higher prices of these inputs in India and
the long, virtually open border with that counrry have given rise to strong
incentives for smuggling; however, the panoply of industrial and trade con-
trols enacted to deter smuggling have paralyzed industrial development
without stemming the incentive to smuggle. Fifth, structural weaknesses have
also given rise to the poor performance of public enterprises, most of which
are financially weak, and some of which are heavily indebted, proving to be a
drain on the budget and the banking system. Sixth, weak public administra-
tion is a constraint to effective economic management. Seventh, management
of development spending has slackened giving rise to a declining share of
annual disbursements relative to the pipeline of aid commitments.
14.    Nepal has been actively implementing a development program to deal
with these problems for many years, but these efforts have not been
successful. During the past year, HMG intensified its efforts to place the
economy on a firmer path toward growth and development. In addition to
policy actions undertaken with respect to the stand-by arrangement with the
IMP, a number of other measures, described below, have been initiated. If
growth and deveLopment are to be ensured, however, the basic structure of the
economy will have to change; to accomplish this, it is necessary to set in.
motion a process that will simultaneously stimulate growth and the required
structural change.  Critical to  the process will be improving the effective-
ness of public sector management-by reducing interventions that are ineffec-
tive or counterproductive, and by doing more effectively those things the
Government needs to do.



PART III -- THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
This section discusses the Government's stabilization and structural
adjustment program. IDA's role in supporting the reform program is discussed
in the next section.
15.     HNG's macroeconomic objectives over the medium term are to sustain a
CDP growth rate in the range of f-5 percent per annum while curbing inflation
and strengthening the balance of payments. The growth objective is con-
sidered the minimum required to absorb new entrants into the labor force.
Inflation is to be reduced from the current annual rate of around 10 percent
to 5 percent by 1989/90. Cross international reserves will be maintained at
3.5 months of imports and the external current account deficit will average
about 10 percent of CDP throughout the period to 1990/91. To achieve these
medium-term objectives, demand management policies will be complemented by
growth-oriented structural measures. The priorities are: (a) to increase
resource mobilization to support a sizable increase in public sector
investment; (b) to continue the financial reforms aimed at improving monetary
control and resource allocation; (c) to promote agricultural production and
preserve forests; (d) to stimulate non-agricultural growth through a more
liberal industrial and trade regime; (e) to adjust the size of the public
enterprise sector in line with a more selective role for state involvement
while strengthening the finances of the remaining public enterprises; and
(f) to improve the implementation of development projects. Consequently,
EM6's structural adjustment program is focused on five main areas: macro-
economic policy; agricultural policy; industrial and trade policy; public
enterprise policy; and development implementation. The structural adjustment
policies are outlined in detail in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex V)
and are summarized below (paras 17-66).
16.     Consistent with greater emphasis on the private sector, the
authorities have not defined a precise set of growth targets for individual
sectors and subsectors toward which their policies will be directed.
Instead, tbey have decided to follow policies that accommodate more efficient
decentralized decision-making by fostering clearer market signals, and to
recognize explicitly the major external constraints over which they have
little or no control.
A. Macroeconomic Management
17.     The measures agreed with the IMF, reflected in large part in the
FYBS/86 and FY86187 Budgets - devaluation with flexible exchange rate
management; tighter fiscal policies; controlled credit expansion; adjustments
in administered prices; restraints on external borrowing and import
liberalization - are designed to place the economy on a more sustainable
growth path. The continuation of these policies is key to the success of the
structural adjustment program (see para 8 of the LODP). The authorities
envision continued close cooperation with the IMF in the form of Structural



-6-
Adjustment Facility (SAF) programs comencing in 1986187. Within the policy
framework, it is expected that the main economic aggregates will evolve along
the lines set out in Table 1; Annex IV presents details on the projected
evolution of the budget, the balance of payments and the national accounts
over the period to 1990191. These medium-term targets will be continuously
monitored by the Government, IDA, and the IMF as a basis for determining the
need for subsequent policy action and adjustments. Measures to achieve these
targets by strengthening the performance of the agricultural, industrial and
trade and public enterprise sectors and development implementation are dis-
cussed below.
18.     By fiscal year 1990/91, HKG expects its economic and financial
policies to: increase the rate of growth of real output to a sustainable
average of about 4-5 percent per annum--compared to the fluctuating perfor-
mance of recent years which averaged 3.4 percent; increase the level of
investment to about 24 percent of GDP compared to 19.0 percent, and reduce
the annual rate of inflation to about 5 percent compared to 10 percent. The
agricultural sector growth rate is projected to be about 3 percent (which is
slightly above the growth of population), and the non-agricultural sector,
about 6 percent. This projected growth is expected to come from industry,
tourism and exports. Under the foreseen scenario, the real growth rate of
consumption per capita would increase steadily to about 1.5 percent compared
to the 0.7 percent average during 1981/82 - 1985/86 (Table 1).



-7-
Table 1: NEPAL: SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1981/82-1985186       PROJECTED         ESTIMATED       PROJECTED
AVERAGE            AVERAGE           1986/87         1990/91
(19B6687-1990191)
Growth Rate (Z p.a.)
GDP                               3.1           4.2               1.5              4.7
CDP/capita                        0.7           1.7                --              2.2
Consumption/capita                0.7           1.0                                1.5
Inflation                         9.8           6.6              12.0              5.0
Exports (G,NFS)                   4.2           5.1               1.6              6.9
Imports (G,NFS)                   4.6           8.2              12.5              7.6
Share of GDP (Z)
National Accounts:
-Cross Investment               18.6           22.9             20.5             23.6
-Public Investment               7.1            8.1              8.1              8.5
-Domestic Savings                9.8           11.3              9.9             12.5
-National Savings               11.8           12.9             12.0             13.1
Budget:
-Government Revenues             8.8           10.9              9.5             12.0
-Government Expenditures        20.0           21.5             19.4             22.9
-Development Expenditure        13.3           15.0             13.1             16.0
-Deficit                        10.3           10.6              9.9             10.9
-External Finance                6.4            9.3              B.2              9.6
External Accounts:
-Exports (a, NFS)               11.8           13.5             14.1             14.5
-Imports (G, NFS)               21.6           24.2             24.7             25.6
-Current Account              -  8.0         - 10.1           -  8.5           -  9.9
Debt Service (Public and Public Guaranteed)
Percent of:
Exports of Goods & Services    5.1             9.8              6.2             12.2
CDP                             0.6            1.4              0.9              1.8
Memorandum Items                                              U.S.$ Killions
Amount
Current Account                -200.0         -321.5          - 219.3          - 376.5
Debt Service (Public and
(Public Guaranteed)             5.0           35.0             16.5             50.0



-8k-
19,     A major objective of macroeconomic policy will be to improve domestic
resource mobilization, especially in the public sector. The government
intends to increase Government revenue as a share of CDP from 9.0 percent in
1985/86 to more than 12 percent by 1990/91 through new revenue measures
combined with actions to improve the elasticity and buoyancy of the tax
system. Nepal has received substantial technical assistance from the IMF in
this area in recent yearo, and a revenue mobilization program will be
prepared in the spring of 1987, prior to the 1987/88 budget, as part of the
first year's financial program under the SAF. At the same time, the govern-
ment intends to limit the rate of growth of regular expenditure to about the
growth rate of the economy. To achieve this target, an effort will be made
to limit the growth of the wage bill taking into account the contribution to
be made by natural attrition in certain areas, while paying due regard to the
need to develop a more competent civil service. A further major target of
policy is to increase the country's capacity to absorb long-term concessional
assistance which should permit an increase in development spending to 16
percent of GDP (an increase of about four percentage points over 1985/86 --
see paras. 57-66 below for a detailed description of measures to improve
development implementation). Although the overall fiscal deficit is expected
to average about ten and one half percent of CDP over 1986/87-199D/91 (which
is about the same as in the previous five years), it will be financed by
large public sector surpluses and increased absorption of foreign assistance.
These two sources of financing will rise to about 5 percent and 10 percent of
GDP, respectively, compared to 2 percent and 6 percent during the earlier
period. This will reduce domestic financing to about 1.5 percent of CDP,
thus increasing the availability of domestic bank credit to the productive
sectors.
20.     Strengthening the balance of payments is a another major goal of
policy. A continuation of the present policy of managing the exchange rate
flexibly, paying due regard to movements in relative prices and overall
indicators that reflect the strength of the external account, is an important
element of HKG's policies--as are efforts to increase exports and provide
incentives for efficient import substitution. Export growth is projected to
increase by an average of about 5 percent a year in real terms. Particularly
important to this outcome will be the expansion of two major exports: car-
pets and garments. These two exports, which provide major employment
opportunities, have shown rapid growth in recent years, rising from
US$6 million in 1981/82 to US$46 million in 1985/86. The continued growth of
carpet exports, which face a rising demand, will be encouraged as raw wool
has been placed under open general license. Four garment items have been
placed under quota by the United States. However, the provisions for an
annual increase in the quota, combined with the scope for upgrading quality
and the production of additional items and the emerging markets in the EEC,
will permit healthy growth in this sector. The recently-approved
IDA-supported cottage and small industry project (Cr. 1696-NEP) is expected
to provide additional stimulus to the export of carpets and garments as well
as to the development of other small-scale industrial activities.



-9-
Additionally, expanding hotel accommodation and supporting services for
tourim are expected to lead to a healthy growth in service earnings.
Imports are expected to show a substantial rise as the result of improvements
in the utilization of foreign aid and import liberalization. Reflecting
Government's efforts to increase development expenditure and the absorption
of long-term concessional assistance, the external current account deficit is
projected to rise from its 1985/86 level of 8.2 percent to about 9.9 percent
of GDP in 1990/91.
21.     The projected current account deficits are sustainable in view of the
large pipeline of concessional assistance and the expected continuation of
comfitments from the donor community in support oi the program as well as
accelerated disbursements. Implementation of a program of adjustment along
the lines outlined above would imply that over the period 1986/87 through
1990/91, the cumulative external current account deficit would amount to
US$1.6 billion or an average of US$320 million annually. Additionally, the
authorities will need to allow foreign exchange reserves to build up by about
US$100 million over the period, for the country to maintain a reserve level
equal to about three and one-half months of imports. After taking into
account amortization of external debt, the external financing requirement
amounts to about US$1.8 billion. This requirement is expected to be financed
by project-related aid disbursements of US$900 million from the existing aid
pipeline of about US$1.1 billion, additional project and program related aid
disbursements of US$550 million from expected new commitments of about US$1.8
billion over the period, and financing for aircraft. After these sources of
financing are taken into account, a financing gap of aboutl US$250 million
remains, of which US$80 million will be over the next two years.  It is
proposed that IDA and the IMF provide financing to cover it through the
proposed SAL of US$50 million and US$17 million of a three-year SAP of US$22
million. The ADB and other bilateral donors have expressed strong interest
in supporting the adjustment program. Current indications are that from
US$10-15 million of quick disbursing assistance from these sources will be
available in the first two years of the program.
B. Agriculture and Forestry
22.     Despite major investments in agricultural support services and
inputs, crop production has continued to lag behind population growth.
AgricuLtural production increased only by about 2.2 percent per annum between
1974/75 and 1985/86 while population grew by about 2.7 percent, thus leading
to a progressively deteriorating food balance. Forest resources have also
continued to decline rapidly with serious consequences for the country's
environment and economy. Agricultural production needs to be raised on a
sustained basis, at least in line with population growrl (see para 25) and
the trend  L deforestation needs to be reversed.  In agriculture, reform
measures are needed to improve resource utilization and productivity.
Measures will focus on (i) improving production incentives; (ii) enhancing
the availability and reliability of services and inputs; and
(iii) strengthening key public sector support agencies. At the same time,



-10-
measures are needed to provide incentives for the private sector to assume
a greater role in Nepal's agricultural development. Comunities and
individuals also need to become actively involved in managing the country's
forests.
23.     Although the importance of assigning high priority to agriculture was
recognized in previous five-year plans in which quantitative targets were
established for the sector, the government's agr¼zultural policy was not
clearly articulated. The main thrust, moreover, was to maintain low and
stable consumer prices for food in food deficit and urban areas.
Consequently, agricultural support prices were kept low; to offset the
resulting disincentive to farmers, inputs such as fertilizers, improved seeds
and irrigation water were highly subsidized. With higher food and input
prices prevailing in India, this policy of attempting to hold down consumer
prices of food and of subsidizing fertilizer gave frequent rise to the
leakage of crops and fertilizer across the open border. Moreover, the finan-
cial burden of this policy to the public sector and to the economy, although
not well accounted for, was considerable. Costs of subsidization have not
been explicitly provided for in annual budgets. Instead, much of these costs
was borne by the two major public enterprises active in the sector -- the
Agriculture Inputs Corporation (AIC) and the Nepal Food Corporation (NFC).
The corporations were allowed to borrow excessively from the banking system
because of liberal government guarantee qf their borrowings which in turn
contributed to the deterioration in internal financial stability.
24.     Recently, however, HMG has adopted a policy of increasing private
sector initiative in agriculture, reducing public sector involvement to a
role of providing essential support functions, and making explicit provision
in the budget for any subsidies or transfers that are considered essential to
achieve social and economic objectives. At the same time, steps are being
taken to put AIC and NFC on a souMd financial and managerial footing; these
are described in the Public Enterprise section below (see paras 54-56).
Additionally, a greater effort is being maIe to upgrade irrigation
facilities, to improve the effectiver&esn of agricultural extension and to
improve the availability of agricuLtural credit.  These areas are being
addressed under development projects f-unded by IDA, ADB and several of
Nepal's bilateral donors.  lUNDP and FAO are also providing technical assis-
tance to strengthen sectoral institutions.
25.     The structural adjustment progr*z is expected to generate sustained
real growth in agriculture of-'ibout 3 -percent per annum on average by improv-
ing the direction, scope and effectivenesso poablick sactnr interventions to
improve production incentives and the supply and reliability of modern
inputs; by reducing the drain on public sector financial resources associated
with current interventions in agricultural- markets; and by improving policy
and creating an institutional environmern  that will stimulate areeter private
initiative. The initial reforms focus on several key subsectors: fertilizer,
seeds, foodgrain marketing, agricultural renearch, and private and community
forestry (these are discussed in paras 23-32 of the LODF). As part of the



ongoing adjustment pr^cess, future reforms will be carried forward in these
sectors and extended to others, such as irrigation and water management,
institutional credit, extension and cooperatives.
26.     Fertilizer:  Timely availability of appropriate types of fertilizer
has been a problem for farmers. Many fertilizers supplied have tended to be
low in nutrient content and of poor agronomic utility. Fertilizer use has
fallen far short of targets, because of ineffective marketing, smuggling to
India (attributable to the past pricing of fertilizer lower than in India),
and logistical difficulties. The AIC is the sole importer and wholesaler of
fertilizers as there is virtually no inducement for private trade.
Government restrictions on marketing channels and retail pricing have con-
tributed to AIC'a financial weakness.
27.     The reform measures are aimed at:  (a) increasing the supply and
improving the timely availability of appropriate fertilizers; and (b) improv-
ing the economie returns on fertilizer use, as well as reducing the financial
losses incurred by AIC (see para 54).
28.     To improve the supply and timely availability of fertilizers
throughout the country, a major thrust under the structural adjustment
progrm will be to liberalize pricing and marketing arrangements for
fertilizer. Price adjustments have not been timely nor adequate to compen-
sate for cost increases or to prevent the unofficial sale of fertilizers to
India. Prices on both sides of the Indo-Nepalese border are now being
monitored regularly and wholesale fertilizer sales prices have been adjusted
to eliminate the incentive to export fertilizer.  Moreover, beginning in
1987/88, the government will allow AIC to adjust ex-AIC warehouse wholesale
sales prices in the terai by up to 10 percent at a time, in response to cost
increases or changes in the cross-border fertilizer price ratio without
having to seek prior approval from the Ministry of Agriculture and/or the
Cabinet. Fertilizer retailing and local wholesale distribution have recently
been opened to both the agricultural cooperatives (Sajhas) and private
dealers and licensing of private fertilizer dealers has been liberalized.
With a view to increasing the incentive to engage in the fertilizer trade,
the allowable retail trade margin will be increased by two percentage points
from its present range of about 5 percent. AIC will also provide special
discounts to retailers and local wholesalers for lifting fertilizers from AIC
warehouses during the off-season.
29.     To improve the supply and timely availabiLity of fertilizers to the
more remote and isolated parts of the country, in addition to the measures
described above, the government intends to provide adequate budgetary alloca-
tions to AIC for the transport subsidy on fertilizers sold in the hills.
Timely release of these funds to AIC to allow the deployment of adequate
fertilizer throughout the country will be ensured.
30.     Steps have been taken to improve economic returns to the use of
fertilizer. Low-analysis fertilizers are being phased out. Efforts are also



-12-
underway to strengthen AIC's fertilizer demand forecasting, import and dis-
tribution programming. Extension services are also focussed on demonstrating
more efficient application of fertilizer.
31.     Seeds:  Major constraints to the growth of Nepal's crop sector are:
(a) the low use of quality seeds and unsatisfactory institutional, opera-
tional and financial arrangements for making improved seeds available to
farmers in a timely manner; (b) inadequate legislation to provide the legaL
framework for regulating seed production, processing, certification and
marketing; (c) the absence of a central authority to regulate production and
trade in seeds, and (d) fragmented operational responsibility for seed
research, production, multiplication, certification, processing and
marketing.
32.     The key objectives of reform in this subsector include:  (a) improv-
ing the supply and timely availability of quality seeds, especially of major
food grains, to farmers throughout the country; (b) providing a clear legal
basis and effective institutional arrangements for all essential activities
in the seeds sub-sector; (c) improving the operational and financial
efficiency of the main institutions involved in the seeds sub-sector; and (d)
expanding the capability of the existing seed production, testing, processing
and marketing system, through increased utilization of private sector
capacities.
33.     A number of actions have already been initiated to address some of
these problems. To improve the supply and timeLy availability of seeds,
technical assistance to AIC for improving its capabilities in the production,
processing mnd marketing of certified cereal seed has been secured from GTZ,
and USAID is supporting a pilot project to test and demonstrate the
feasibility of innovative methods for the production and supply of improved
seeds in the hills. The procedures for establishing prices, commissions and
presia paid to seed multipliers have been simplified, and there is no longer
a limit on the quantity of seeds that AIC will purchase from an individual
seed multiplier. A revised system of sales prices for certified cereal seeds
and dealer incentives will become effective at the beginning of FY88.
34.     To provide for clear and effective legal and institutional
arrangements: (i) a draft National Seed Act and a proposal for establishing
a National Seed Board with the authority and capability to formulate national
seed policy and to coordinate, supervise and regulate its implementation have
been prepared; and (ii) a proposal has been drafted for creating a finan-
ciaiLy and operationally autonomous National Seed Company. The National Seed
Act will be submitted to Parliament during its next session, which runs from
July through October 1987, and the National Seed Board will be established
imnediately after its enactment.
35.     Actions to strengthen the operational and financial efficiency of the
main public sector institution (AIC) involved in the seed sub-sector are
described in para 54.



-13-
36.     To expand the capability of the existing system of seed production,
testing, processing and marketing, beginning in FY88, the Seed Division of
AIC will be given substantially increased operational and financial autonomy
within AIC to carry out its tasks. The government has already initiated a
program for improving hill farmers' access to improved seed, based on unsub-
sidized production and marketing of seed by local farmers.
37.     Foodgrain Marketing and Distribution:  Although foodgrain trading in
Nepal is predominantly a private sector activity, concern over food security
has led to some public sector involvement in the foodgrain market through the
operations of the NFC. NFC's activities have suffered, however, from lack of
clear objectives and weak finances and management. NFC procures grains from
domestic farmers, traders and millers and also handles the small amount of
foodgrains that are officially imported. Domestic procurement has relied
heavily on levies (a requirement that a certain amount of grain be sold at a
below market fixed price) imposed on millers and exporters. Primary
procurement, to support post-harvest producer prices, has been very limited.
Sales, at prices well below market and cost, were mainly in the major urban
markets with beneficiaries not generally representing the most needy. In the
absence of full budgetary support, NFC's accumulated financial losses have
been covered through bank borrowings. NDC's accounting system and practices
are inadequate for effective management of the Corporation. In particular,
the NFC needs to separate the accounts of its commercial operations from
those of its welfare-oriented activities.
38.     The key objective of food policy reform is to promote increased food
security at less cost. This will entail: (a) providing effective producer
incentives; (b) stabilizing consumer prices; (c) operating an effective
foodgrain reserve stock and providing emergency food supplies when needed;
and (d) strengthening the finances of NFC (paras 54 and 55).
39.     Producer incentives are expected to become more effective with
actions to phase out subsidized food grain sales and the recent discontinua-
tion of levy procurement (paras 40 and 41).  These actions will result in
farmers being paid market prices rather than the artificially low officially
administered prices prevailing in the past.
40.     To phase out heavily subsidized foodgrain sales to urban consumers,
an effective market-oriented consumer price stabilization system was started
in the Kathmandu Valley in early 1987. This is a pilot operation for even-
tual replication in other major consumer centers. NFC now sells foodgrains
in the Valley at prices that cover its costs and provide a de facto ceiling
on market retail prices. In addition, HMG is preparing a detailed plan for
identifying consumer groups vulnerable to chronic and/or severe seasonal food
shortages and for distributing foodgrains to such target groups.
41.     Procurement from domestic production is now exclusively through
purchases at prices set in close proximity to those in effect in neighboring



-14-
Indian states. The practice of levies has been discontinued. Sufficient
funding to NFC to ensure effective primary procurement operations during
1986/87 has been provided, and the authorities are comuitted to continue
ensuring adequate funding in future years. Sajhas are now being utilized as
agents for some of NFC's foodgrain procurement.
42.     Agricultural Research:  Nepal's agricultural research system has been
institutionally fragmented, poorly funded and lacking clear objectives and
priorities. It has also been hampered by inappropriate personnel policies,
administrative regulations and procedures. Yet more effective agricultural
research is vital in achieving sustained increases in agricultural production
over the longer term. An essential precondition for effective operational
and management reforms in this sector is the creation of an autonomous
research planning, funding and coordination body at the national level, to
set national research priorities, control funding for research, administer
the national agricultural research system, monitor progress, establish mean-
ingful career paths for researchers, and ensure effective linkages with other
institutions, notably the extension service.
43.     To improve coordination and management, 1KG has recently taken the
following steps: A National Agricultural Research Coordination Committee has
been formed, chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture and comprising
appropriate representation from the major institutions involved in, or con-
cerned with, agricultural research; a permanent Secretariat has-been estab-
lished within the Ministry of Agriculture, and its staff positions will be
filled by July 1987. The various research units under the Department of
Agriculture have been combined into a National Agricultural Research Services
Center, under the management of a Deputy Director General of Agriculture.
44.     To establish an appropriate and effective institutional framework for
coordinating and managing national agricultural research, the Government will
prepare by July 1987, a plan for the establishment, by the end of the Seventh
Five Year Plan period, of an autonomous National Agricultural Research Board
or Council -- with independent budget and financial procedures and personnel
policies, and research programming, monitoring, review and evaluation
systems; this agency will be created out of the nucleus provided by the
Research Committee, Center and the research units of other entities currently
under the administrative control of the Ministry of Agriculture.
45.     Forestry:  Sepal's economy and ecology depend crucially upon its
forest resources, which are rapidly diminishing. The strategy in forestry is
to introduce policy changes that will alleviate the burden on Government
imposed by financial, staff and management constraints and to involve
individuals and communities, to the maximum extent possible, in managing much
of the effort to contain and reverse the trend of deforestation. This will
form the central objective of the measures proposed for the first phase of
adjustments in the forestry sector, and will be reinforced by specific
follow-up in future IDA-financed projects.



-15-
44.     By July 1987, the government intends to modify the existing legal and
administrative regulations so as to allow legally constituted forest user
groups to retain 100 percent of the revenues realized from Panchayat
Protected Forests instead of having all proceeds collected by the Ministry of
Finance to be returned only in part with considerable delay. Forest Users'
Committees established at the Panchayat or Ward levels will be authorized to
employ a member-secretary to conduct the Committee's day-to-day business, to
hire laborers needed (e.g., nursery staff, forest watchmen, forest foreman),
and to manage forests and related resources. Finally, the administrative
regulations concerning the ownership and utilization of trees on privately
owned land will be clarified by July 1987 to provide that Landowners can
grow, cut and sell trees planted on their land. The impact of these measures
is anticipated to be very significant, as under the present system, the local
population has had virtually no financial incentive to preserve the forests
and no control over the management of forests.
0. Industry and Trade
47.     Nepal's industrial sector contributes less than 10 percent to GDP
and is characterized by small establishments. The growth rate of industry,
excluding the fairly recent entry of carpet and garment production, has been
about 2 to 3 percent per annum. The absence of development in this sector
has been largely a function of two factors: the large, high cost, highly
protected Indian economy to the south, and a policy aimed at maintaining a
lower cost structure than that in India. For years Nepal maintained an.
overvalued exchange rate, and eschewed the effective use of tariffs; imports
of non-Indian raw materials and capital goods were strictly licensed with a
view to preventing deflection of these imports to India. However, these
controls and regulations were largely ineffective in stopping trade deflec-
tion and instead retarded industrial development; in certain cases the link-
ing of the issuance of import licenses to installed capacity has led to over
investment in capacity. Trade in imports became quite profitable, and many
new industries tended to be high in import content and low in domestic value
added. Given the difficulties in administering the regulatory system, and
the close ties of the economy with India, the authorities have decided to
introduce policies which are easier to administer and which take into account
the close links between the two economies. It is intended that trade
policies will rely more on the maintenance of realistic relative prices
(particularly vis-a-vis India) and less on Government regulations.
48.     Nepal's revised industrial strategy, which is outward-looking, is to
shift gradually to an industrial and trade regime that aLlows exporters to
compete with foreign competitors on an equal footing and to equalize the
levels of incentives for exports and import substitution activities. The
four main strands of policy to achieve this are: Ci) maintenance of a realis-
tic exchange rate in combination with an appropriate system of industrial and
export incentives; (ii) the guarantee of access to necessary factors of
production and other inputs without undue price distortions; (iii) the
removal of excessive regulatory controls while making effective use of



-16-
tariffs; and (iv) improvement in the efficiency of administrative arrange-
ments required to operate the systems of incentives and essential controls.
Within this policy framework, it is anticipated that there will be increased
private investment in industry and that the growth of this sector will
accelerate to about 6 percent per annum.
49.     Recent measures include a commitment to maintaining a reaListic
exchange rate (see para 20). The authorities have also recently paid
exporters the amounts owed under the previous (and subsequently abolished)
system of cash export incentives, thus restoring some of the confidence lost
in government policy when for fiscal reasons the authorities were not paying
the incentive. Regarding the availability of inputs, the following measures
have already been taken: (i) to liberalize interest rates and to eliminate
previously existing anomalies in the structure of interest rates; (ii) to
auction import licenses for a broad range of goods previously under quantita-
tive restriction; (iii) to introduce a pass-book system for raw material
imports thereby providing much-needed automaticity in the access of manufac-
turers to foreign exchange; and (iv) placing a number of important items
(including wool) under open general license. Principal actions taken to
remove excessive regulatory controls have been the conversion of the two
lists of items free from industrial and export licensing to two lists of
items subject to the two respective types of licensing, all other items being
free. Recent improvements in the administration of the industrial and trade
regime include the: (a) establishment of an export dovelopment committee
composed of two-tiers, with Ninisters at one level and their Secretary's at
another; and (b) the timely allocation of the U.S. garment quota.
50.     Actions that the authorities will be taking or initiating under the
structural adjustment program by the time of the 1987/88 Budget include:
(i) introducing incentives for exporters, including duty-drawback and tax
exemptions; (ii) introducing a system of ad valorem tariffs characterized by
seven bands ranging in value from zero to 100 percent (the structure of
tariffs will be influenced, in part, by India's tariffs); and
(iii) streamlining export and customs procedures by reducing the current
redundancy of information requirements and other administrative burdens
imposed on exporters and importers.
D. Public Enterprises
51.     Nepal's 60 fully state-owned public enterprises (PEs) have not per-
formed well (although 6 joint ventures have fared comparatively better). The
PEs are distributed across a range of activities as follows: manufacturing
(30); public utilities (7); finance and insurance (8); trading (8); and the
social services (7). The PEs were established without the guidance of a
coherent policy regarding appropriate criteria for public sect-or involvement.
Indeed, many were set up at the insistence of donor' who wanted separate
administrative arrangements for their projects. Their poor performance can
be attributed to rapid staff turnover in key positions, outside interference



-17-
in their operating affairs, and a lack of clear guidance regarding their
role. Kany of these entities have accumulated arrears and substantial indeb-
tedness to the banking system. The government has recently adopted a policy
for public enterprises that limits state involvement to the provision of
essentially "public" goods and services, which for reasons of market imper-
fections or social attributes would unlikely be supplied on adequate terms by
the private sector (Public Enterprise policy is discussed in paras 3?-36 in
the LODP).
52.     Under the structural adjustment program, measures have already been
taken to improve performance of the PEs and to bring the sector into conform-
ity with its stated policy: (i) with a view to improving financial control
over the PEs, HMG has recently set out a borrowing plan for each of them in
respect of borrowings from the domestic banking system; and (ii) managers of
the PEs have been given improved incentives through the introduction of a
reward and penalty system. Under the structural adjustment program the
following initiatives are also addressed: (a) reducing the size of the
overall PE sector through closure and divestiture; and (b) improving the
roles, management and financial and operating efficiency of the two PEs
operating in the agricultural sector.
53.     The Size of the PE Sector:  The government intends to implement
policies to reduce the size of the public sector through divestiture and
closure. In early 1986, some 46 PE's were identified as suitable for dives-
titure in whole or in part. Witb the exception of one donor, donors who
financed some of these PEs have indicated no objection to divestiture. An
action plan to carry out the reform program will be drawn up by early
1987/88. It is intended that each PE will undergo a special review to iden-
tify measures either to improve the marketability of its shares, if it is to
be sold, or its operational performance if it is to continue in the public
sector. Technical assistance to facilitate the review is being arranged.
54.     Agriculture Inputs Corporation:  A detailed action plan and timetable
has been prepared for reshaping AIC's role in the agricultural sector and for
restoring AIC's financial viability, including measures to liquidate its
accumulated debts. Several actions bave already been initiated, or are about
to be taken, to strengthen AIC's financial management. Under an agreement
with the ADB, a program has been initiated to improve AIC's accounting
system. AIC is expected to complete and submit to the Auditor General its
outstanding accounts for 1985186 by mid-October, 1987. The Auditor General's
office will complete full audits of AIC's accounts for all years from 1982/83
through 1985186 by January 31, 1988. For 1986/87 and subsequent years,
audited accounts and financial statements will be available within 12 months
after the close of the fiscal year. An action program has been initiated to
ensure full payment by the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) to
AIC for fertilizers sold to Sajhas against ADBN coupons; in the future, full
payment will be made within one month of the presentation of coupons to ADBN.
In conjunction with a program to strengthen the management and finances of
AIC, commencing with the 1987/88 budget, the Government will provide adequate



-18-
funds for the financial subsidy required by AIC to cover the excess of
budgeted costs over revenues, where losses are being incurred in the carrying
out of Government policy.
55.     Nepal Food Corporation:  Measures to adjust NFC's role to one that is
consistent with the policy regarding PEs and to restore NFC's financial
viability have been initiated. NFC's accumulated debts are to be converted
into long-term Government bonds, carrying 8 percent interest per annum. NMG
has also taken steps to encourage full payment to NEC, by 15 April 1987, by
other public sector entities for foodstuffs delivered. For debtors unable to
meet this obligation, time-bound programs for phased payment of their out-
standing debts to NFC have been established.
56.     Steps have also been taken to strengthen NFC's accounting capacity
in the same manner and over the same time frame as for AIC (para. 54).
Beginning with FY88, the Budget will provide sufficient financial resources
in its annual budgets to compensate NFC for the costs of carrying out
welfare-oriented functions. Improved and more appropriate accounting proce-
dures for NFC are being developed and are expected to be in effect around the
beginning of FY89.
E. Development Implementation
57.     The main problems related to development implementation are: (i)
too many activities undertaken in relation to institutional, manpower and
budgetary capacity; (ii) weak project management; (iii) weak monitoring and
control functions; (iv) inadequate accounting and auditing functions which in
turn delay budgetary releases; (v) high rates of turnover among project
staff; (vi) a local construction industry beset by management, financial and
manpower problems; (vii) excessive intervention in procurement functions with
attendant delays and inefficiencies; and (viii) inadequate provision of
resources for operations and maintenance. These problems are in large
measure attributable to the workings of the broader public administration.
Although public administrative reform represents a major undertaking that
will require concerted effort over many years, corrective actions (described
in paras 58, 59, 60) have been taken by introducing program budgeting proce-
dures and tighter financial monitoring. The measures taken under the struc-
tural adjustment program are aimed at: (a) improving the efficiency with
which public resources are allocated to new projects and ongoing projects;
(b) strengthening Government's control over the execution of the development
program through better monitoring with follow-up actions; and (c) introducing
better management accountability both regarding performance in meeting
project targets as well as in the disposition of public financial resources.
58.     In early 1986, HKG took several steps to improve the quality of its
development program and the efficiency of project implementation. Through
Gazette notification, the powers of project managers and senior ministry
officials were augmented significantly to permit them greater autonomy
regarding personnel management and spending decisions. Additionally, a Royal



-19-
directive provided for continuity on development projects by giving managers
greater discretion over the retention of project staff. These actions were
accompanied by a reduction in the number of development boards, which had
often interfered with day-to-day management and had been the frequent cause
of project delays. These changes have produced mixed results to date. While
the measures seem to be ameliorating the problems of project staffing and
staff turnover, project managers in a number of instances still seem reluc-
tant to exercise their new authority regarding spending decisions. It is
largely the lack of other reinforcing systems within the broader public
administration combined with apparent risk-aversion on the part of many
managers that has kept these directives from producing discernible changes
in project management. The new rules are appropriate but can only be
expected to produce results when other complementary reforms (e.g., perfor-
mance evaluation systems, remuneration and promotion criteria linked to
performance, improved job security, etc.) in the public sector are in place.
The issues involved, however, are complex and highly interrelated, thus
requiring additional study before specific recommendations can be
appropriately made. Accordingly, a study of the scope for broader public
sector administrative reform will be undertaken (para. 71).
59.     Program budgeting procedures were introduced in early 1986 to improve
the absorption of foreign aid, to raise the efficiency of deveLopment
projects and to accelerate the timing of benefits from the development
program. Consultants were hired to assist in this effort under a technical
assistance project funded by UNDP. About fifty development projects in
agriculture, irrigation and forestry (accounting for about 15 percent of
development spending) were reviewed. This analysis provided a useful input
to the process of allocating budgetary resources during preparation of the
1986/87 Budget. It resulted in a number of changes in the design and phasing
of projects as well as in budget allotments to line ministries. The applica-
tion of program budgeting procedures is being extended and refined.
60.     Financial monitoring of 78 major development projects on the basis of
monthly information reported on the release and expenditure of funds has been
introduced. This action, which was initiated and will continue in the
Financial Controller General's (FCG) Office, is an important first step to
correct the inadequacy of current monitoring systems for development
projects.
61.     To improve the allocation of public resources, a "core" development
program comprising about 70 percent of the 1987/88 development budget is
being identified. The purpose of the core program is to identify a set of
high-priority development activities which would be given priority to the
allocation of budgetary funds. This is in contrast to the historical prac-
tice of undertaking many projects, irrespective of the strain put on the
public sector's absorptive capacity. The core program will include alloca-
tions for O&W expenditures in agriculture, irrigation, forestry, power,
transportation and education and projects of high priority, selected on the
basis of the following criteria: (i) foreign aid content; (ii) nearness to



-20-
completion; (iii) economic efficiency; and (iv) strategic importance in the
country's overall development program. The latter criterion will take into
account investments in certain areas (e.g. cultural heritage) where economic
benefits of are either difficult to estimate or inapplicable. This round of
programming, which would be completed in time for the 1987/88 Budget, (i.e.
by June 1987) will extend the program and budgeting activities to the key
line ministries operating in the fields of agriculture, irrigation, forestry,
power and transportation. Subsequent rounds (on cycle with the 1988/89
Budget onward) would aim at refining the application of procedures as well
as improving the assessment of O&K requirements for education, irrigation and
road transport.
62.     Although the core program will not be fully identified until the
Spring of 1987, the 78 key projects now being monitored by the FCC's Office
(para 60) already cover a significant portion of the development budget
(about 50 percent compared with the 70 percent to be ultimately covered by
the core program in 1987188). An overall implementation target for these
projects taken collectively has been established for 1986/87 as part of a
first effort by HMG to improve both the quality of development projects and
the rate of project implementation. Additionally, a subset of 18 of the more
important of these projects has been selected for botb physical and financial
monitoring. This exercise will not only provide the basis for assessing
management performance regarding the development program, but will also guide
the design and implementation of broader program monitoring and control
systems being undertaken with technical assistance funded by UNDP.
63.     HKG also intends to strengthen the National Planning Commission (NPC)
and the line ministries with respect to their project evaluation capability.
The government is considering the role that technical assistance can play in
this effort and the UNDP has indicated its willingness to support such an
effort.
64.     The control of the development program will be strengthened by
improving the scheduling of projects, the collection and dissemination of
monitoring information and the taking of corrective action with appropriate
follow-up. Each line ministry has recently established a unit to track
projects to anticipate and resolve problems beyond the control of project
managers. This will, inter alia, allow comparisons to be made between actual
and targeted performance as well as between resources actually deployed and
those originalLy scheduled, thus permitting distinctions to made between
performance attributable to managers and that caused by factors beyond
managers' control. Additionally, an apex trouble-shooting unit has been
established in the Cabinet Secretariat to review and resolve problems that
transcend the authority of a single implementing ministry. Major procurement
decisions and the extent to which these have followed established guidelines
fall within the purview of this unit.
65.     The government intends to improve the accountability of project
managers in two ways. First, project managers will be expected to account



-21-
for deviations from expected performance in the light of information provided
by the improved monitoring systems. And second, HMG will undertake to
improve the accounting and auditing framework for development projects. To
this end, UNDP funding has been secured for improving accounting systems and
for training accountants and auditors over the next two years.
66.     An additional action to be undertaken under the structural adjustment
program to improve development implementation wilL be to improve the perfor-
mance of the domestic construction industry. Technical assistance financed
by UNDP will address the issues of: manpower training, contractor
registration, contract procedures, equipment supply, payment to contractors,
improving contractors' access to credit, supply of building materials, and
domestic suppliers' access to foreign exchange. A program to address these
issues will bp designed and implemented over the course of HfCG's 1987188
fiscal year.
F. Social Impact
67.     The impact of Nepal's structural adjustment program on income dis-
tribution is expected to be positive. The estimated 60 percent of the
country's population, which lives below the absolute poverty line and are
engaged primarily in subsistence agriculture, are not closely linked with
developments in the monetized sector of the economy. Thus, it is not
anticipated that the necessary financial adjustment measures will have sig-
niificant adverse effects on the poor. Moreover, HMG's stabilization and
structural adjustment programs are consistent with raising per capita real
consumption growth to double its present rate. The achievement of a three
percent sustained growth rate in agriculture will have a significant impact
in that sector, which occupies most of the population. Moreover, substantial
benefit will result from the new policies which, inter-alia, are designed to
improve the availability of inputs and research services. The non-
agricultural sector, where growth is projected to be higher will also have
relatively higher rates of consumption growth. Subsidized food programs will
be more appropriately targetted to the poor and accounted for explicitly in
the budget. The measures to encourage community involvement in the protec-
tion of the forests will significantly enhance both distributional and inter-
generational equity.
68.     On the other hand, some of the macroeconomic, industry and trade
measures being introduced under the program (i.e. the introduction of higher
tariffs and officially administered prices) are aimed at capturing excessive
economic rents and transferring them from the current middle and high income
beneficiaries to the budget, where, together with rising foreign savings
inflows, they will be available to finance more investment and employment, as
well as better operation and maintenance of key services and infrastructure.
Although these measures may result in some dislocation of inefficient
industries and reduction in incentives to engage in purely trading
activities, concomitant unemployment effects are not expected to be severe as
the industries likely to be adversely affected will in most cases be in



-22-
reality industries based on exporting to India goods with very low domestic
value added and labor content. Moreover, this adjustment will be phased,
while at the same time, the new measures will be expected to stimulate new
investment and employment tha,t will more than compensate for the dislocation.
In particular, the employment opportunities that are expected to be generated
by expanded carpet and garment manufacture wilL be significant and will
benefit the poorer segments of the urban population. At the macro-economic
level, tighter monetary and fiscal policies are already having the effect of
reducing inflation and mobilizing financial savings. Finally, in the absence
of a program, it can be expected that there would be continuation of low
growth rates, declining per capita food availability and further environmen-
tal degradation.
PART IV -- THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. Background
69.    The Bank began to consider a non-project lending operation for Nepal
in the latter half of 1985 (Annex III presents the timetable of key events).
It was clear that stajiLization would need to be accompanied by additional
measures to stimulate growth and structural change. At the January 1986 Aid
Group meeting, the Bank discussed the possibility of a SAL with the
authorities. Subsequently, the Bank provided the authorities an aide-memoire
identifying a number of areas wherein a series of immediate actions, and
agreement on future studies, could provide the basis for a SAL. In April and
August 1986, missions visited Kathmandu to hold further discussions; an
appraisal mission visited Kathmandu in late September which was followed by a
post-appraisal mission in late November 1986. A Letter of Development Policy
issued on February 24, 1987 provides the basis for this operation (Annex V).
B. Objectives and Description
70.     The principal objective of the Credit is to provide immediate support
for the Government's stabilization and structural adjustment program. After
taking into account anticipated project-related flows of external assistance,
a financing gap of about US$80 million in 1986/87-1987/88 has been
identified. It is proposed that this gap be filled primarily by INF resour-
ces and the SAL. The SAL would be for SDR 40.9 million (US$50 million
equivalent) and would be disbursed in two equal tranches. While the measures
taken so far are impressive and important, further substantial action will be
required. The required structural changes will take some time, and imply
complementary strengthening of Nepal's administrative and policy-making
machinery to enable such a program to be implemented.
71.     During negotiations, undertakings were reached that studies will be
undertaken in parallel with this SAL to lay the foundation for subsequent
SALs and/or sector loans. These would be drawn from the areas of: (a)
agricultural development strategy with particular focus on the rural crisis



-23-
in the hills and mountains; (b) further refinement of induitrial/trade
strategy and policy with added focus on the potential for tourism and pos-
sible linkages with the power sector; (c) the scope for broader public
administrative reform; and (d) studies to identify appropriate policies for
energy pricing and energy trade. The studies will draw on the economic and
sector work program of the Bank and on previous work already done; they will
be action oriented and will also identify necessary institutional strengthen-
ing required to implement the recommendations therein.
C.  Coordination with the IMF and Other Donors
72.     The International Monetary Fund.  In preparing the proposed SAL, Bank
and IMP staff collaborated closely through frequent consultations in
Washington, overlapping missions in the field and close association between
Resident Representatives of the respective institutions. Currently, Nepal
has a stand-by arrangement with the IMF in an amount of SDR 18.65 million or
50 percent of quota. The arrangement is in effect through April 22, 1987.
The stabilization program supported by the stand-by arrangement focuses on
mobilizing additional domestic resources, restraining monetary and credit
policies and, through the pursuit of a flexible exchange rate policy,
strengthening the competitiveness of the traded goods sector. The broad
areas of the conditionalities for the stand-by arrangement are complementary
to the policy and institutional reform measures to be carried out under cthe
proposed Credit, as well as to IDA's broader economic development policy
objectives. As regards the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) a joint
Bank/Fund mission visited Kathmandu in December 1986 to coomence discussions
of a draft Policy Framework Paper. It is planned that these discussions will
be concluded in May 1987 with agreement reached on economic and financial
policies during 1987/88-89190.
73.     Other Donors.  IDA, UNDP, the ADB and bilateral donors cooperate
closely in Nepal. The Bank and UNDP jointly convene regular donor meetings
with the bilateral agencies in Kathmandu. Donors have expressed very sub-
stantial interest in the SAL, attach great importance to the structural
adjustment effort, and have contributed valuable suggestions which have been
taken into account in designing the program. The UNDP is providing financing
for a number of technical assistance activities to support the SAL, the most
important of which is to improve the administration of
development expenditure. The Bank staff also maintains close contact with
the ADB. A member of the ADB staff joined the April mission and other ADB
staff consulted with that and subsequent missions. The ADB is supportive of
the SAL and intends to consult closely with the Association in coordinating
their lending program. The ADB has agreed to be executing agency for several
UNDP financed technical assistance programs. As noted in Para. 21, a number
of donors have expressed interest in providing finance to support the adjust-
ment program.



-24-
D. Credit Administration and Management
74.     HRC's SAL Financial Coordinating Committee, comprising repre-
sentatives from the Foreign Aid Division of the Ministry of Fivance end from
the Nepal Rastra Bank, will have overall respcntibility for the .pt'eparation
and submissiun of withdrawal application;,  ihis will include the-collection
and coordination of all supporting documentation including re4evant letters
of credit.
E.  Procurement, Disbursements and aetroactive FinC3ing         -
75.     The proposed Credit would finance.100 percent  of the foreign
exchange cost of imports other thai Luxury and defet..ae items. Not more than
20 percent of the proceeds of the CreJit would bc 'osed to finance the import
of any commodity or group of commodities falling within a single 2-digit
Division of the Standard International Trade Classification (SITC),
Revision 2.
76.      Contracts for the import of goodrsby the private sector will be
awarded on the basis of normal cormercial.tpractices of the purchaser.
Purchase of imports of less tban US$1,OGO,000 eqsaivalent by Ltb  Public Sector
will follow the public sector's procurement regulations.  Excdpt for
proprietary items, all imports from the public sector exceedinz the above
limit would be procured through international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines.  Certain commonly traded commodities may be pur-
chased through price quotations available frmm-organized international co-
modity markets.  Public sector contracts fOr-proprietary aFems may be let on
a negotiated basis subject to the prior approval of IDA*. Goods would be sold
to the final users at prices that reflect, inter-aliat, the international
prices of the goods, plus applicable customs duties and taxes.
77.      Disbursements under the Credit would be facititated by the estab-
lishment of a Special Account of SDR 8.18 million: ($10 million equivalent) in
Nepal Rastra Bank. It is anticipated that most payments would be finAnced
out of the proceeds of this Account. Applications for replenishment to the
Special Account would be submitted when the amounts withdrawn exceeded 5U
percent of the amount deposited into the Special Account (Authorized
Allocation) or every cL-ee months whichever comes first. Disbursements
against small contracts of less than $400,000 but more than $10,000 would be
made on the basis of a modified statement of expenditure (SOE). This SOE
would include (i) description of goods; (ii) country of origin; (iii) date
and currency of payment; and (iv) beneficiary. Supporting documentation such
as invoices, contract, bill of lading and evidence of payment will be
retained by che SAL Financial Coordinating Committee for periodic examination
by Bank staff. Expenditures for goods procured under contracts of US$10,000
equivalent or less would not be eligible for financing from the Credit.
Retroactive financing of US$5 million equivalent would be provided for
eligible expenditures incurred commencing January 1, 1987.



-25-
78.     Local currency counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign
exchange provided by the Credit would be added to the budget and subject to
normal public finance expenditure controls.
F. Tranching
79.    Assuming satisfactory progress on the program, the proposed SAL would
be disbursed from March 1987 to March 1988, supporting Nepal's 1986/87 and
1987188 foreign exchange requirements. The first tranche of SDR 20.45 mil-
lion ($25 million) would be raleased upon Credit effectiveness in time to
provide support in the financing of the 1986/87 program and the second
tranche is expected to be released in November 1987 after a joint review by
the government and IDA of progress under the program.
80.     Prior to the proposed release of the second tranche it is expected
that the Government would take the following actions (Annexes III and VI have
details): a) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of macro-
economic policieu, including agreement with IDA on policies for 1987/88,
including formulation of a Core development program; and in the implementa-
tion of the 1986/87 Development Budget; b) commencement of a program of
tariff reform; c) introduction of flexibility in determining the
administered wholesale prices of fertilizer coupled with increased incentives
to fertilizer trading; 1) improvements in the institutional arrangements
governing seed marketing; e) strengthening the finances of the AIC and NFC;
f) allowing local forest user groups to retain the proceeds from the sale of
forestry products; and g) preparation of an action plan for reform of the PE
sector.
C. Benefits and Risks
81.    The main benefits are: (i) laying the foundation for more vigorous
mediumrterm growth by establishing a firm macro-economic and financial
framework, freeing industrial activity from excessive regulatory measures,
improving the quality of services being provided by Government to the
agricultural sector, and improving the rate of project implementation; (ii)
providing the basis for sustained improvement in the balance on external
account through a combination of macroeconomic, industrial and trade policies
aimed at reducing price and regulatory distortions that are currently biasing
the composition of economic activity in favor of producing goods with little
value added and (iii) strengthening the public sector finances through a
combination of additional fiscal measures and improved administration
thereof, phased disengagement of the public sector from those economic
activities that can be performed more efficiently by the private sector, the
capturing and transfearal to the budget of excessive economic rents from
those agents who in the past have enjoyed monopoly power at the expense of
the broader populace via the excessive regulatory apparatus and better tar-
geting of social welfare programs with more explicit treatment in the budget
of the true costs that these activities entail.



-26-
82.     Two main risks exist.  One is political.  Notwithstanding endorsement
of the country's structural adjustment program at the highest level, vested
interests are significant and could thwart the sound execution of the program
as the removal of economic distortions begins to encroach on prerogatives.
However, a major feature of the SAL is to introduce processes within the
public sector that not only are based on sound economic criteria and manage-
ment methods but also that will be more open to scrutiny. The introduction
of program budgeting, the improvement of program/project monitoring and
control, and the enforcement of tighter accounting and auditing practices
will improve and protect the stewardship of public sector resources. To the
extent that strong support from the highest levels continues, the risk that
countervailing forces may weaken the structural adjustment effort should be
manageable. Another risk is administrative. In the past, Nepal has had
difficulty in managing development projects because of the limited executing
capacity and lack of accountability of the public sector. Superimposing the
numerous policy actions required under a structural adjustment program on top
of the public sector's existing work load runs the risk of overloading the
system. To mitigate this risk, the program has been designed with an
emphasis on decontrol and liberalization in which the state is reducing its
role. Finally, if some of the components of technical assistance on which
key areas of reform depend are delayed, this in turn could delay some of the
associated policy actions. Close coordination between UNDP and IDA Resident
Representatives and close cooperation with ADB are expected to keep this risk
manageable.
PART V -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
83.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 46
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$641.0 million equivalent, net of cancellations. Five sectors account
for about 90 percent of IDA credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture
(US$251.4 million for 20 projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 mil-
lion for three projects); power and energy (US$168.0 million for four
projects); telecommunications (US$41.7 million for four projects); and high-
ways (US$67.0 million for th-ree projects). The proposed credit would be the
second to be approved in FY87, following the one for the Rasuwa-Nuwakot
Integrated Rural Devalopment Project. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
IFC has made three investments in Nepal, the first in FY75 (US$3.1 million)
for the expansion of the Soaltee Hotel project in Kathmandu, the second in
FY82 (DM 14.5 million) to Nepal Orind Magnesite Company for the mining and
production of dead burnt magnesite, and a third approved in FY84, but not yet
signed to Nepal Metal Company (DM 7.8 million), for a zinc/lead mining and
concentrates project. Annex II contaias a suimmary statement of IDA credits
and IFC operations as of September 30, 1986.
84.     The international community has provided considerable resources for
Nepal's economic development. Utilization of this aid has been constrained,



-27-
however, by Nepal's limited absorptive capacity affecting the pace of project
preparation and implementation. The Bank Group has provided assistance to
HM0 in project preparation through two Technical Assistance Credits
(Cr. 659-NEP and 1379-NEP) and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of
technical assistance projects financed by UNDP. Project completion reports
have been prepared for eleven projects.
85.     In recent years the Bank has focused its lending increasingly on
agriculture, rural development, forestry, and human resource development.
In allocating future IDA project resources to these areas, the basic approach
will be to strike a balance between the necessary emphasis on quick and
high-yielding investments in these sectors which is dictated by Nepal's
precarious budgetary and balance of payments position, and an equally
important commitment to those sectors where the impact cannot be felt
immediately but which nevertheless are critical to the country's long-term
development (e.g., public administration and human resource development).
The primary objective of Bank lending in the agricultural sector is to
increase production of foodgrains and to achieve larger agricultural
surpluses for exports and import substitution. To that end, the Bank
emphasizes actions and investment aimed at improving the supply of inputs and
strengthening support services to maximize benefits from existing infrastruc-
ture and equipment. In forestry, the principal focus is to support refores-
tation efforts at the community level. In education and training, the objec-
tives are to improve the quality of primary education as well as to increase
the supply of trained technical manpower, and to promote greater efficiency
in public administration.
86.     Outside these areas of major emphasis, involvement will concentrate
on areas where investments would complement growth in productive capacity.
Accordingly, support in the power sector will be maintained. However, with
Nepal's growing electricity demand, the larger generation projects that this
implies will require financing on a larger scale than in the past.
Therefore, in addition to providing financial resources, the Bank will act as
a catalyst for mobilizing additional external resources in addition to
providing technical assistance in the sector. In transport and
communications, selective interventions will be designed to facilitate
regional integration and improved rural access to markets and input supplies.
87.     Project lending operations have addressed, with some success, a
number of problems and constraints that transcend individual operations and
sectors (e.g., cost recovery, accounts and audits, provision for operations
and maintenance). However, this approach has been unwieldy and difficult to
sustain where coordination across government agencies. The proposed SAL will
be a valuable and essential complement to policy reforms addressed under
project lending by providing breadth and flexibility in approach and direct
involvement of central high-level decision makers.
88.     The proposed SAL and the project lending operations are mutually
supporting. For exnmple, under recently approved irrigation and rural



-28-
development projects, progress has been made in the area of cost recovery.
Two ongoing industrial projects have components under which important
improvements in industrial incentives and export and import procedures will
be introduced in line with the SAL's objectives of industrial and trade
liberalization. A planned multimodal transport project will further enhance
the movement of goods traded with India as well as of goods in transit
through India from and to third countries. Lending operations in forestry
and agricultural research are anticipated to provide detailed follow-through
to the broader policy initiatives sought under the SAL in these areas.
Moreover, the improved project accounting and auditing sought under the SAL,
in addition to strengthening performance in the area of project implementa-
tion generally, can be expected to enhance rates of execution under ongoing
and new IDA projects.
PART VI - RECOMKENDATION
89.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.



ANNEX     I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - NEPAL
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1985: US$160
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1984/85                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH, 1974/75-1984/85
(%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      %
GDP at Market Prices                 2,350       100.0                                3.0
Gross Domestic Investment              486        20.6
Gross Domestic Saving                  264        11.2
Resource GAP                          -222        -9.4
Exports of Goods, NFS                  302        12.8
Imports of Goods, NFS                  509        21.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982/83
Value Added
Value Added              Labor Force a/           Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %             Mln.      % 2US
Agriculture                          1.286         56             6.3    91.0                204
Industry                               277         12             0.2      3.0             1,385
Services                               725         32             0.4      6.0             1,813
Total/Average                   2,282        100             6.9      100               331
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
NRa. Hln.
X of GDP
1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1985/86
Current Receipts                        2,668       2,805       3,346       3,850       4,481      8.7
Regular Expenditures                    1.627       1,900       2,107       2,720       3.281      6.0
Current Surplus                         1,041         905       1,239       1.130       1.200      2.7
Development Expenditure                 3,727       4,982       5,164       5,489       5,993     12.1
External Asaistance (Net)               1,688       2,028       2,492       2,609       3,446      6.9



MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1981        1982         1983       1984         1985       1986
(Million NRs. outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                            6.308        7,459        9.222      10,456      12,297      15,120
Bank Credit to Government                        1,263        2,062        4,090       5,029       6,470       7,420
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                  946          840        1,137         953       1,163       1,600
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    2.952        3.142        3,264       3,842       4.848       6,343
Money and Quasi Money a. x of GDP                 21.7         22.9         27.4        27.4        29.3        30.4
General Price Index (1974/75 = 100)              145.9        161.2        184.1       195.6       198.6       230.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                               13.4         10.4         14.2         6.2         1.5        16.1
Bank Credit to Government                         -0.4         57.1         93.8        24.2        27.9         14.7
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                 33.3          1.0         44.0       -18.9        20.8        37.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      26.9         2.4          3.7        16.9        22.1        30.1
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Fiscal year data are for Nepalese fiscal year. July 16 - July 15.
q/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
b/ Includes mining, manufacturing, construction and utilities.



ANNRM      I
1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1954/85
(US$ Million)
u5$ Fdn.      2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Agricultural products                91.7       59
Exports                        250.4      275.0       302.1    328.2          Manufactures                         63.7       41
Merchandise f.o.b            82.3      112.1      154.5    160.2
Non-factor Services         168.1      162.9      147.6    168.0           Total                               155.4      100
Import.                        521.6      505.1      524.1    590.6
Merchandise c.i.f           459.0      428.2      437.0    501.6           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEIMER 31, 1985
Non-factor Services          62.6       76.9       87.1      89.0
USS Hln.
Resource Cap                   271.2      230.1       222.0    262.5
Public Debt. inc. guaranteed               527.3
Net factor Income               13.0         6.2        0.2      -0.5         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net Current Transfers           41.7       45.4        42.8      51.2         Total Outstanding 6 Dilbursed               527.3
Current Account Deficit        216.5       178.6      179.0    211.9
Official Grant Aid              95.3       90.5        75.0      96.8         DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1934/85                2
Net H&LT Loana                  67.0        78.9       71.6      91.2         Public Debt, Inc. guaranteed                 5.0
Disbursements                69.9       83.5       76.6      99.0
Repayments                    2.9        4.6         5.1       7.8
Capital Flows N.B.I.             1.1       -5.5      -20.5       38.9         IBRD/IDA LtNDING, September 30, 1986
Overall Balance                -53.1      -14.7       -53.0      15.0                                                  USS mln.
IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                 241.9
Undi6bursed                             396.0
OutstandinS. inel. undisburaed          637.9
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From March 20. 1978         From September 19, 1981    From December 17, 1982
to Septeaber 18, 1981    to December 16, 1982             to  lay 31, 1983             June 30, 1984 !/            December 31, 1984
US$1.00  = NRa 12.00        us$1.00  = NRa 13.2           US$1.00  s NRs 14.3          US$1.00   = NRs 16.4         US$1.00  = NRs 18.0
NRa 1.00 = us$ 0.083        NR. 1.00 = US$ 0.076          NRs 1.00 s US$ 0.070         NRa 1.00  = US$  0.061   NRs 1.00 = US$ 0.056
March 31, 1985              June 30. 1985                 September 30, 1985           December 31, 1985           June 15, 1986
US$1.00  a NRs 18.1         US$1.00  = NRs 18.1           US$1.00 = NRs 17.3           US$1.00 = NRa 20.9          US$1.00  = NRe 21.2
NlRa 1.00 = US$ 0.055       NRa 1.00 a US$ 0.055          NRs 1.00= USS0.058           NRa 1.00= Us$ 0.048         NRa 1.00 = 118  0.047
e/  Since June 1, 1983. the Nepal Rastra Bank announces the exchange rate daily.
baoed on a trade-weighted basket, with the US dollar as the intervention
currency.  The rate shown here is the mid-rate on the date indicated.
South Asia Programs Departai
February 20. 1907



-32-
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1986) al & b/
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.      Year      Borrower                   Purpose                IDA   Undisbursed
Nineteen credits fully disbursed                                    144.2
812     1978  Kingdc-ci of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)       30.0       1.1
856     1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Narayani Zone)          14.0       1.7
939     1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Development            11.0       6.8
1008     1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry                  17.0       8.3
1055     1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Mahakali)               16.0       9.1
1059     1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply & Sewerage    27.0          7.5
1093c/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                   3.5       0.2
llOOc/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultura; Extension & Res.    17.5          6.8
1101c/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food Production                 8.0      4.8
119/ci   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Cottage & Small Industries           6.5       0.1
1198c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                    14.3      10.0
1260c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Petroleum Exploration Promotion   9.2          4.1
1316c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VI-Bhairawa-Lumbini   16.0         11.0
1339c1   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Cash Crop Development                6.0       2.6
1379c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Assistance II              6.0       5.3
1400c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Forestry                     16.0      17.0
1452c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Karnali Preparation                 11.0       9.8
1463c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Primary Education                   12.8      11.9
1478c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power  107.0    114.9
l-515c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Highways                     47.5     53.2
15341/  1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Agric. Manpower Development           8.4       9.8
1535c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Development               7.5       9.1
1570c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension II            7.2       8.9
1588c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunication IV                22.0     25.1
1696d/   1986  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Cottage & Small Indus.    10.0         10.5
171d/   1986  Kingdom of Nepal  Narayani III Irrigation              24.5      26.2
1727d1   1986  Kingdom of Nepal  Rasuwa Nuwakot Rural Dev. II        19.1     20.1
Total,                           639.2    396.0
of which has been repaid         1.3
Total now outstanding b/         637.9
Total now held by IDA            637.9
Total undisbursed                          396.0
a/  No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
bf  Prior to exchange adjustments.
c/  IDA 6th and ,th Replenishments Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date ef negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
undisbursed amounts shown U.S. dollar equivalent are valued at the exchange
rate applicable on the date of this statement.
d/  Not yet effective.



-33-
-2-
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (a. of September 30, 1986)
Amount (US$ million)
Year             Obliger             Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1975    Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.     Hotel                 2.0     0.4       2.4
1982    Nepal Orind Kagnesite        Nine and process      7.2      -        7.2
(Private) Limited           magnesite ore
Total comnitments now held by IFC                  9.2     0.4      9.6



-34-
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Request from HMG for IDA assistance to
design Structural Adjustment Program         January 1986
(b)  Identification mission                         April 1986
(c)  Pre-appraisal mission                         July 1986
(d)  Appraisal mission                              September 1986
(e)  Post-appraisal mission                        November 1986
(f)  Negotiations                                   January 1987
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness                 April 1987
(h)  Target date for Second Tranche release         October 31, 1987
Section II:
(a)  Before effectiveness, the Government would establish a Special Account
at the Rastra Bank to receive proceeds of the proposed credit.
(b) Before release of the second tranche. the main actions that KM would
undertake are:
i)    achieve satisfactory progress on implementation of the program
to be determined on the basis of a review of HNMG'  economic
development policies including, but not limited to. those policy
and institutional improvements described in the LODP;
ii)    review and agree on 1987/88 Budget policies including iden-
tification and agreement on a core development program for the
1987/88 Budget;
iii)    achieve satisfactory progress in implementing the key develop-
ment projects being monitored;
iv)    formulate and introduce a program of income, sales and excise
tax reforms;



-35-
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
v)    convert the tariff structure to a system of about 7 bands rang-
ing from 0 to 100 percent;
vi)    increase the permissable trading margin on fertilizer by two
percentage points; authorize AIC to increase wholesale fer-
tilizer prices at any time. without prior government approval.
by up to 10 percent to meet cost increases or to reduce any
price differential with India;
vii)   implement a simplified cereal seed sales pricing system. includ-
ing elimination of subsidy on seeds;
viii)   provide greater financial autonomy to the Seed Division of AIC
and transfer within AIC responsibility for seed distribution
and marketing from the Sales and Procurement Division to the
Seed Division;
i4)   establish a National Seed Board:
x)    submit to the Auditor General's office complete final accounts
for AIC and NFC for all financial years through 1985/86;
Xi)    provide sufficient budgetary allocation to compensate NEC for
the costs of carrying out welfare- oriented functions on behalf
of HNG;
xii)    allow Panchayats' and Wards' forest user groups to retain 100
percent of revenues from forrst activities;
xiii)    prepare an action plan for closure. divestiture and/or
managerial reform of the PEBs.



Table 1t NEPAL: GCERNKBNS BUDGET                                  Anes n
(In NRa million)
Rev.
Actual     Prelix.            sat.                     Projacted
1982/83 1983/84 1984/85          1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
Current Receipts:                       2805.0  3345.7  3850.3            4481.0   53,76.0  6596.5   7638.4   8768.8  10050.6
Tax Revenue                             2421.1  2737.0  3151.2            3752.0   4326.0   5524.1   6460.7   7470.2   8619.1
Direct Taxes                           446.6  545.9   563.3              647.0    745.0    831.8    972.6   1124.3   1309.0
Indirect Taxes                        1974.5  2191.1  2587.9           3105.0   3581.0   4692.3   5488.1   6345.8   7310.1
Non-Tax (Adj.)                           383.9   608.7   699.1             729.0   1050.0   1072.4   1177.7   1298.6   1431.5
Nou-Tax Receipts (Unadi.)              417.8   675.8   766.6             869.0   1310.0   1352.4   1479.7   1623.6   1781.5
Loan Repayment# received               -33.9   -67.1   -67.5            -140.0   -260.0   -280.0   -302.0   -325.0   -350.0
Regular Expenditures (Adj.)             1900.2  2107.0  2720.2            3'21.7   3799.8   4531.1   4980.3   5467.8   6080.6
Regular Expenditures (Unadt.)         1997.1  2273.5  2906.0            3603.3   4202.6
- Loans and Investment                  -3.3      0.0  -11.1            -13.3    -13.8
- Payments of Principal                -93.6  -166.5  -174.7            -308.3   -389.0
Surplus for DevelopKent 8zp.             904.8  1238.7  1130.1            1199.3   1576.2   2065.5   2658.1   3301.5   3970.0
Development hxp. and Net Lending        4951.5  5096.7  5432.3            5865.9   7153.8   8940.8  10167.3  11580.3  13071.3
Development Expenditure               4982.1  5163.8  5488.7            5992.6   7400.0   9206.8  10455.3  11891.3  13407.3
Not Lending                            -30.6   -67.1   -56.4            -126.7   -246.2   -266.0   -288.0   -311.0   -336.0
Overall 3alance                        -4046.7 -3858.0 -4302.2           -4666.6  -5577.6  -6875.4  -7509.1  -8279.3  -9101.3
Total Receipts                        2805.0  3345.7  3850.3            4481.0   5376.0   6596.5   7638.4   8768.8  10050.6
Total dxpenditures                    6851.7  7203.7  8152.5           9147.6  10953.6  13471.9  15147.6  17048.1  19151.9
Financed bys
External Sources                      2028.4  2492.0  2609.1            3446.2   4640.0   5868.3   6490.9   7199.9   8013.2
Grants                              1090.1   876.6   923.4            1380.8   1760.0   2504.4   2778.8   3125.3   3471.0
Loan Disbursements (not)             938.3  1615.4  1685.7            2065.4   2880.0   3363.9   3712.1   4074.6   4542.3
Loan Disbursements (gross)          985.B  1670.9  1754.9            2224.9   3130.0   3616.7   4015.4   4436.4   4968.1
Repayments                          -47.5   -55.5   -69.2           -159.5   -250.0   -252.8   -303.3   -361.8   -425.9
Domestic Borrowing (net)               2015.6  1369.5  1694.1            1220.4    937.6   1007.1   1018.2   1079.4   1088.1



Table 2:  NEPAL: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 Annex IV
In US$ millions
Rev.
Actual      Prelim.            Est.                       Projected
1982/83 1983/84 1984/85            1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
Exchange Rate = NHs per US$                13.796  15.259  17.777             19.329   22.000   22.000   22.000   22.000   22.000
Merchandise Exports f.o.b.                   82.3   112.1   154.5              160.2    182.0    202.8    225.0    251.2    281.9
Merchandise Imports c.i.f.                  459.0   428.2   437.0              501.6    540.5    665.7    742.5    760.0    839.9
Trade Balance                             -376.7  -316.1  -282.5             -341.5   -358.5   -462.9   -517.4   -508.9   -558.0
Non-Factor Services (net)                   105.5    89.0    60.5               79.0     86.8      97.9    109.2    121.6    135.1
NFS Exports                              168.1   162.9   147.6               168.0    181.1    201.6    222.2    245.0    270.1
NFS Imports                               62.6    73.9    87.1               89.0      97.9    107.7    117.4    128.2    140.2
Resource Balance                          -271.2  -227.1  -222.0             -262.5   -271.6   -365.0   -408.2   -387.3   -422.9
Investment Income (net)                      13.0     3.2      0.2              -0.5     -0.9      -7.0    -14.0    -21.5    -23.9
Receipts                                   14.7     6.2      5.3               3.1      3.6       7.0       7.0       6.8       6.5
Payments                                    1.7     3.0      5.1               3.6      4.5      14.1      21.0      28.3     30.4
Private Transfers (net)                      41.7    45.4    42.8               51.2      53.2     60.8      63.8      67.0      70.3
Receipts                                   44.1    47.8    44.7              55.6      59.1
Repayments                                  2.4     2.5      1.9               4.4      5.9
Current Account Balance                   -216.5  -178.6  -179.0             -211.9   -219.3   -311.3   -358.4   -341.8   -376.5
Official Grants                              95.3    90.5    75.0               96.8    126.5    129.9    151.8    171.2    192.0
Official Capital                             67.0    78.9    71.6               91.2    105.2    152.9    177.5    194.1    211.9
Disbursements                                69.9    83.5    76.6               99.0    115.8    164.4    191.2    210.5    231.2
Amortization                                  2.9      4.6     5.1               7.8      10.6      11.5     13.8      16.4      19.4
Miscellanecus Capital                         1.1    -5.5   -20.5               38.9       0.0     55.0      55.0       0.0       0.0
Overall Balance                            -53.1   -14.7   -53.0                15.0      12.4     26.5      25.9      23.5      27.4



Table 3: NEPAL: NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Re. million)
Rev.
Actual     Prelim.           lat.                    Projected
________________    ___        ---------------------
1982/83 1983/84 1984185         1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
__________________________.   - ------------------------------------------------------ - -
GDP (market prices)                   33761.0 38184.0 41738.0          49710.2  56510.6  63495.3  69470.2  76226.2  83639.1
GDP (factor cost)                     31934.0 36059.1 39231.0          46705.0  52990.9  58866.5  64051.5  69956.5  76333.3
Indirect Taxes                         1974.5  2191.1  2587.9          3105.0   3581.0   4692.3   5488.1   6345.8   7389 5
- Subsidies                            -147.5   -66.2   -80.9           -99.8    -61.3    -63.5    -69.5    -76.2   -83.6
Resource Gap (K-X)                     3741.4  3511.4  3945.9           5074.0   5975.4   8031.0   8981.0   8520.4   9303.7
Imports (G+NF8)                      7196.0  7661.0  9043.0         11416.5  13963.7  16926.3  18820.7  19436.4  21448.7
Exports (G+NFS)                      3454.6  4195.7  5373.0           6342.5   7988.3   8895.2   9839.8  10915.9  12145.0
Resources Available = Uses            37502.4 41695.4 45683.9         54784.2  63099.4  70287.7  76948.1  83127.8  91195.7
Total Consumption                     30703.0 34247.0 36772.0          45339.3  50901.3  56601.9  61759.6  67214.6  73204.0
Private Consumption                 28309.3 31905.9 33601.5         41572.3  473L5.D  50950.8  55507.3  60125.5  65258.3
Government Consumption               2393.7  2341.1  3170.5           3767.0   3534.4   5651.1   6252.3   7089.0   7945.7
Total Investment                       6799.0  7402.0  8636.0           9444.9  11584.7  14924.4  16691.6  17532.0  19738.8
Arivate Investment                   4103.5  4621.7  5697.5           6528.4   6978.3  10098.8  11099.2  11205.2  12671.3
Gdvernmsent Investment               2695.5  2780.3  2938.5           2916.5   4606.4   h825.6   5592.3   6326.8   7067.5
Memorandum Items:
Domestic Savings (Ig+Ip-RG)            3057.6  3890.6  4690.1          4370.9   5609.3   6893.4   7710.6   9011.6  10435.2
Net Vactor Income                       179.3    94.6'    2.8            -10.0    -20.0   -154.8   -306.9   -473.0   -526.1
Net Current Transfers                   575.7   692.2   760.9           989.0   1170.0   1336.6  1403.4   1473.6   1547.3
National Savings (DS+NrY+Tfp)          3812.6  4677.4  5453.8           5349.9   6759.3  8075.2  8807.1  10012.2  11456.3
Government Savings                    -82.2   378.1  -160.6          -366.0    585.8   -410.9   -120.7      23.3    372.7
Private Savings                      3894.8  4299.3  5614.4          5715.9   6173.5   8486.0   8927.8   9988.9  11083.6
Foreign Savings                        2986.4  2724.6  3182.2          4005.0   4824.4   6849.2  7884.5   7519.9   8282.5



Table 4:  NEPALs GOV ERNMENT BUDGET                                Annex IV
(as a percent of GDP)
--------------------------------------------------------------------     __------ __----------------- --- --__ _ _
Rev.
Actual     Prelim.            Est.                   Projected
1982/83 1983/84 1984/85          1985/86 1986/87 1S87/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91
Current Receipts:                         8.31    8.76    9.22              9.01    9.51   10.39   11.00   11.50   12.00
TaX Revenue                                7.17    7.17    7.55             7.55    7.66    8.70    9.3      9.80   10.30
Direct Taxes                             1.32    1.43    1.35             1.30    1.32    1.31    1.40    1.48    1.57
Indirect Taxes                          5.85    5.74    6.20              6.25    6.34    7.39    7.90    8.33    8.74
Non-Tax (Adj.)                             1.14    i.59    1.67             1.47    1.86    1.69    1.70    1.70    1.71
Non-Tax Receipts (Unadj.)                1.24    1.77    1.84             1.75    2.32    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13
Loan Repayments received               -0.10   -0.18   -0.16             -0.28   -0.46   -0.44   -0.43   -0.43   -0.42
Regular Expenditures (Adj.)                5.63    5.52    6.52             6.60    6.72    7.14    7.17    7.17    7.27
Regular Ezpenditures (Unadj.)           5.92    5.96    6.96              7.25    7.44
- Loans and Investment                 -0.01    0.00   -0.03             -0.03   -0.02
- Payments of Principal                -0.28   -0.44   -0.42             -0.62   -0.69                                             I
Surplus for Development Ezp.               2.68    3.24    2.71             2.41    2.79    3.25    3.83    4.33    4.73
Development Ezp. and Net Lending          14.67   13.35   13.02            11.80   12.66   14.05   14.64   15.19   15.63
Development Expenditure                 14.76   13.52   13.15            12.06   13.09   14.50   15.05   15.60   16.03
Net Lending                            -0.09   -0.18   -0.14             -0.25   -0.44   -0.42   -0.41   -0.41   -0.40
Cverall Balance                         -11.99  -10.10  -10.31             -9.39   -9.87  -10.83  -10.81  -10.86  -10.90
Total Receipts                           8.31    8.76    9.22             9.01    9.51   10.39   11.00   11.50   12.00
Total Expenditures                      20.29   18.87   19.53            18.40   19.38   21.22   21.80   22.37   22.90
Financed by:
External Sources                        6.01    6.53    6.25              6.93    8.21    9.24    9.36    9.46    9.60
Grants                                3.23    2.30    2.21              2.78    3.11    3.94    4.00    4.10    4.15
Loan Disbursements (net)               2.78    4.23    4.04             4.15    5.10    5.30    5.36    5.36    5.45
Loan Disbursements (gross)          2.92    4.38    4.20              4.48    5.54    5.70    5.78    5.82    5.94
Repayments                         -0.14   -0.15   -0.17             -0.32   -0.44   -0.39   -0.42   -0.46   -0.49
Domestic Borrowing (net)                 5.97    3.59    4.06             2.46    1.66    1.59    1.45    1.40    1.30



Table 5: NEPAL: BALANCE 01 PAYMENTS
(as a percent of GDP)
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------___---_------
Rev.
Actual                    Nut.                   Projected
1982/83 1983/84 1984/85         1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91
Merchandise Exports f.o.b.                3.36    4.48    6.58             6.23    7.09    7.03    7.13    7.25    7.42
Merchandise Imports c.i,f.               18.76   17.11   18.61            19.51   21.04   23.06   23.51   21.94   22.09
Trade Balance                           -15.39  -12.63  -12.03           -13.28  -13.95  -16.04  -16.39  -14.69  -14.68
Non-Vector Services (net)                 4.31    3.56    2.58             3.07    3.38    3.39    3.46    3.51    3.55
NFS Exports                             6.87    6.50    6.29             6.53    7.05    6.98    7.04    7.07    7.11
NPS Imports                             2.56    2.95    3.71             3.46    3.67    3.59    3.58    3.56    3.55
Resource Balance                        -11.08   -9.01   -9.45           -10.21  -10.57  -12.65  -12.93  -11.18  -11.12
Investment Income (net)                   0.53    0.13    0.01           -0.02   -0.04   -0.24   -0.44   -0.62   -0.63
Receipts                                0.60    0.25    0.22             0.12    0.14    0.24    0.22    0.20    0.17
Payments                                0.07    0.12    0.22             0.14    0.16    0.49    0.66    0.82    0.80
Private Transfers (net)                   1.71    1.81    1.82             1.99    2.07    2.11    2.02    1.93    1.85
Receipts                                1.80    1.91    1.90             2.16    2.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Repayment.                              0.10    0.10    0.08             0.17    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Current Account Balance                  -8.85   -7.14   -7.62           -8.24   -8.54  -1'.79  -11.35   -9.87   -9.90
Official grants                           3.90    3.62    3.19             3.76    4.92    4.,O    4.81    4.94    5.05
Official Capital (net)                    2.74    3.15    3.05             3.55    4.09    5.30    5.62    5.60    5.57
Disbursements                             2.86    3.34    3.26             3.85    4.51    5.70    6.06    6.08    6.08
Amortization                              0.12    0.19    0.22             0.30    0.41    0.40    0.44    0.47    0.51
Miscellaneous Capital                     0.04   -0.22   -0.88             1.51    0.00    1.82    1.72    0.00    0.00
Overall Balance                          -2.17   -0.59   -2.26             0.58    0.53    0.83    0.80    0.68    0.70



Table 6: NEPAL: NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(as a percent of GDP)
Rev.
Actual     Prelim.           Ent.                   Projected
_   _    _   _    -,___          ______---_  _    _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __-_-_
1982/83 1983/84 1984/85         1985/86 1986187 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91
-------------------------------------------------------------__-----_ -------------___________---------------
GDP (market prices)                     100.00  100.00  100.00          100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00
______ _______ ------- ______ _ _ ___ _ ______ ___ ______ -__-
GDP (factor colt)                        94.59   94.44   93.99           93.95   93.77   92.71   92.20   91.78   91.27
Indirect Taxes                            5.85    5.74    6.20            6.25    6.34    7.39    7,90    8.33    8.84
- subsidies                             -0.44   -0.17   -0.19            -0.20   -0.11   -0.10   -0.10   -0.10   -0.10
Resource Gap (M-X)                       11.08    9.20    9.45           10.21   10.57   12.65   12.93   11.18   11.12
Imports (G+NBs)                        21.31   20.06   21.67           22.97   24.71   26.66   27.09   25.50   25.64
Exports (G+NJS)                        10.23   10.99   12.87           12.76   14.14   14.01   14.16   14.32   14.52
Resources Available =Uses               111.08  109.20  109.45          110.21  110.57  112.65  112.93  111.18  111.12
Total Consumption                        90.94   89.69   88.10           91.21   90.07   89.14   88.90   88.18   87.52
Private Consumption                   83.85   83.56   80.51            83.63   83.82   80.24   79.90   78.88   78.02
Government Consumption                  7.09    6.13    7.60            7.58    6.25    8.90    9.00    9.30    9.50
Total Investment                         20.14   19.39   20.69           19.00   20.50   23.50   24.03   23.00   23.60
Private Investment                     12.15   12.10   13.65           13.13   12.35   15.90   15.98   14.70   15.15
Government Investment                   7.98    7.28    7.04            5.87    8.14    7.60    8.05    8.30    8.45
Henorandum Item:s
Domestic Savings (Ig+Ip-RG)               9.06   10.19   11.24             8.79    9.93   10.86   11.10   11.82   12.48
Net Factor Income                         0.53    0.25    0.01           -0.02   -0.04   -0.24   -0.44   -0.62   -0.63
Net Current Transfers                     1.71    1.81    1.82            1.99    2.07    2.11    2.02    1.93    1.85
National Savings (DS+NFY+Tfp)            11.29   12.25   13.07            10.70   11.96   12.72   12.68   13.13   13.70
Government Savings                    -0.24    0.98   -0.38            -0.74    1.04   -0.65   -0.17    0.03    0.45
Private Savings                        11.54   11.26   13.45           11.50   10.92   13.36   12.85   13.10   13.25
Foreign Savings                           8.85    7.14    7.62            8.24    8.54   10.79   11.35    9.87    9.90



-42-
Annex V
Page 1 of 12
Dear Mr. Conable
Introduction
1.      Notwithstanding three decades of development effort which has been
supported by the international donor community, Nepal's per capita income is
still about US$160. Over the past 15 years real GDP growth has barely kept up
with the growth of population and such social indicators as life expectancy,
infant mortality, and adult literacy have remained unacceptably low. Even
more worrisome is the fact that in recent years per capita food production
has been falling.
2.      Kuch of Nepal's difficulties in achieving a better record in respect
of growth and development derive from its meagre resource base and its
landlocked position. However, while geographical factors and poor resource
endowment have hindered economic performance, the system of production incen-
tives has been inadequate and distorted, and budgetary management bas had
many shortcomings.
3.      In the first half of the 1980s, these factors and a difficult exter-
nal environment led to increasiLigly poor economic performance. Although the
Sixth Plan (1980/81-1984185) witnessed an average annual real CDP growth rate
of 4.1 percent, the annual performance fluctuated widely on account of the
vagaries of weather. Financial indicators increasingly pointed to the emerg-
ing difficult situation. Domestic savings was low, and the expansion of bank
credit to both the Government and the rest of the economy was high. This
contributed to a substantial deterioration in the balance of payments, as a
cumulative deficit of over US$100 million was incurred during
1982/83-1984/85. Ihile most of Nepal's external debt has been incurred on
highly concessional terms, in recent years the ratio of such debt to GDP and
the debt service ratio rose substantially. During the five years ending June
1985 the former rose from 10.1 percent of GDP to 17.6 percent and the latter
measure rose from about 2 percent to about 5 percent.
The Need for Stabilization and Structural Change
4.      In the face of the continuing deter.oration in both external and
internal accounts 5KG adopted a stabilization program in December 1985 which
has been supported by an 18 month stand-by arrangement with the International
Monetary Fund. Principal elements of our program are and have been: a
devaluation of the rupee by 14.7 percent, with the exchange rate of the rupee
to be managed flexibly with due regard to changes in relative prices and
other balance of payments indicators; tighter budgetary policies with the
initial focus on expenditure restraint, to be followed by revenue measures;
reduced expansion of credit to government and public enterprises; a very



-43-
Annex V
Page 2 of 12
substantial liberalization of interest rates; adjustment in administered
prices; restraints on external borrowings and import liberalization. in
addition to these measures HKG also embarked on a number of other policy
initiatives in the area of public administration and the management of the
public enterprises with a view to further supporting the stabilization
effort.
5.      Our efforts at stabilization have been successful.  Real output
rebounded in 1985186 reflecting not only good weather but an improved supply
of imported inputs. thile inflation picked up, as expected, subsequent to
the devaluation, by the end of the fiscal year it had begun to moderate
substantially. A tight policy on the wage front has served to consolidate
the gains of devaluation. Better budgetary policies were reflected in a
reduced fiscal deficit and, most importantly, a halving of domestic bank
financing of the deficit which has allowed more credit for the finance of
directly productive activities. The balance of payments turned around
substantially as a modest surplus was posted compared to the previous year's
deficit of US$50 million.
6.      DEC fully intends that the present stabilization program and other
initiatives are fully implemented so as to provide the necessary precondi-
tions for orderly decision making by economic units. If growth and develop-
ment are to be ensured, however, the structure of the economy will have to
change. Nepal's economy is beleaguered by numerous structural problems.
First, serious environmental degradation (especially in the ecologically
fragile bills and mountains), a burgeoning population and pronounced depend-
ence on the vagaries of monsoon agriculture have contributed to a multi-
faceted rural crisis. Secondt, macroeconomic management needs to be
strengthened further, and recquires special effort to improve performance in
the areas of domestic resource mobilization and control of recurrent expendi-
ture and inflationary financing.  Third, inadequate control in managing
development spending. Fourth, our public administration needs to be
strengthened further to support the country's development effort. Fifth,
regarding industry and trade, policies which have sought to maintain a low
cost economy and at the same time prevent trade deflection, have, inter-alia,
given rise to a large nusber of controls which have provided unwarranted
profits to traders and little incentive to productive industrial investment.
Sixth, a substantial number of financially weak and, in some cases, heavily
indebted public enterprises have not performed well and are a drain on the
budget and the banking system. Seventh, agricultural policies also need to be
improved in order to stimulate food and other agricultural production.
Financially weak sectoral institutions have not only been a drain on public
sector finances but have failed to provide the services for which they are
mandated. Moreover, there is substantial scope for increasing the role of
the private sector.



-44-
Annex V
Page 3 of 12
7.      As a first step the policies for which we seek IDA's support focus on
the areas of: macro-economic management; development expenditures; trade and
industry; agriculture and forestry; and public sector enterprises. In the
paragraphs below I will outline the policies which HHG intends to pursue in
the near- and medium- term.
Macro-economic Policies
8.      It is the intention of HMG that the current stance of macro-economic
policy to promote growth with stability be continued. In that spirit it is
our intention to continue to seek the support of the IMP after the expiry of
the current stpnd-by arrangement. Over the medium-term we hope to be able to
achieve a rate of growth of real output of 4.5 percent per annum by the end
of the Seventh Plan and to reduce the rate of inflation to about 5 percent
per annum. An important element of policy is to increase the level of
investment and development expenditures (which includes operations and
maintenance). The projected rise in development expenditures by four per-
centage points to 16 percent of CDP will be financed by both increased
utilization of concessionary foreign assistance and domestic resources. At
the same time, we intend to maintain the overall fiscal deficit at no more
than 11 percent of GDP through 1990/91 and to reduce domestic financing to
about 1.5 percent of GDP by improving the utilization of foreign assistance.
This will require a major domestic revenue mobilization effort and we intend
to increase these revenues, through a combination of new measures and
improved administration, to 12 percent of GDP from the present level of 9
percent. Drawing upon past technical assistance it is otr intent to intro-
duce a package of fiscal reforms in the FY87/88 Budget - this will include
the reform of trade, excise, sales and income taxes. At the same time we
plan to limit the growth rate of regular expenditures to that of the economy.
Notwithstanding the upcoming three year review of salaries it is our inten-
tion that the share of wages in the regular budget will soon return to its
present level; it is our intention to strive to reduce the share by contain-
ing the size of the civil service payroll through - judicious policy of
allowing natural attrition, while at the same time paying due regard to
provide adequate salaries. As regards the balance of payments it is our
intention to continue to manage the exchange rate flexibly with due regard to
movements in relative prices, and the need to increase the production of
tradable goods and to strengthen the overall balance of payments position.
Development Expenditure Policies
9.      During the period ahead we intend to implement policies to improve
the management of individual projects and strengthen program/project control
structures. We intend to achieve the latter through policies to improve



-45-
Annex V
Page 4 of 12
guidance though improved project selection, program budgeting and work plan-
ning based on standard setting. Improved information flows leading to review
and corrective action will take place through the installation of monitoring
units and a system of reporting and referral to decision makers. Internal
discipline will be improved through improved financial accountability and
evaluation of managers based on monitoring.
10.     During the first part of FY87 we have taken a number of steps to
improve development administration. These include the introduction of
programing and budgeting in the Ministry of Finance during the 1986/87
Budget preparation period; delegation of more authority to project managers
and other senior government officials regarding personnel management and
spending; and organizing local donor aid coordination in consultation with
the World Bank and UNDP resident representatives.
11.    More recently we have installed a trouble-shooting unit in the
Cabinet Secretariat. Prototype monitoring systems have been installed to
measure progress in this fiscal year in advance of the more comprehensive
system which will be installed later. In order to promote and ensure progress
toward efficient development spending in the present fiscal year a list of
key, foreign-financed projects, have been identi5ed and an overall, speiding
target for them established, as a basis for determining that a concerted
effort is being made to improve global devel        --nenditure performance.
Actions to improve their execution will be mc         and work programs for
major projects have been drawn up.  To ensure that increased spending is
resulting from improved management, a sub-set of the key development projects
has been identified for prototype monitoring and control using the work
breakdown structure (WBS) system. This will allow monthly reporting on
resources deployed and progress made against work plans.
12.    To improve project auditing and accounting, TMRs and the UNDP project
document have been prepared in conjunction with the Financial Controller
General (FCC) and Auditor General (AG). On the basis of the preliminary
findings of this technical assistance, EKG intends to make an assessment of
available accounting staff, including the private sector, in terms of quan-
tities of persons and skill levels relative to the need for staff in the
FCC's and AC's offices. We further intend to develop an action plan for
upgrading, training new staff and for deputing staff to development projects.
The plan would also provide for any additional actions identified during the
assessments required, to improve the accounting and auditing functions for
development projects. This will ensure that project accounts are submitted
to the FCC on time and that submission of audited reports to IDA comply with
dated covenants.



-46-
Annex V
Page 5 of 12
13.    With a view to strengthening the domestic construction industry we
have agreed on guidelines for TOls for consultants to develop an action plan.
This plan will address the issues of manpower training, contractor
registration, contracting procedures, equipment supply, payment, access to
credit, etc.
14.     During the course of this SAL, and in any case by the time of the
formulation of the 1987188 Budget, we will adopt econoaic management policies
to achieve the objectives of this program, including identifying a core
development program. This program would comprise about 70 percent of the
development budget and be developed through the newly introduced program
budgeting function in the line ministries. The core program would contain a
list of facilities to be cnerated and maintained in six sectors as well as a
list of high priority projects selected on the basis of the following
criteria: foreign aid content; nearness to completion; economic efficiency;
and strategic importance in the country's overall development program.
15.    We also intend to strengthen the AC and FCC offices through, inter-
alia, the provisions of TA in order to improve audit procedures for all IDA
projects. This will ensure that project accounts are submitted to the FCC on
time and that submission of audited reports to IDA comply with dated
covenants.
Industry and Trade Policies
16.    Our industrial sector remains small and undeveloped. Although we
provide incentives which include, inter-alia, tax holidays and sales tax and
import duty concessions there has been little real development in this
sector. A major reason for this is that Nepal's tariff structure has not
been appropriately aligned with its major trading partner. As a result there
has been incentive to re-export, especially in the area of raw materials and
intermediate goods and luxury goods. This has created a strong incentive
to trade rather than invest in productive industry. Although a large panoply
of controls and regulations has been set up to discourage this trade, they
have not been successful nor have they increased the profitability of such
trade. Such industry as has been set up is heavily biased toward high import
content and low domestic value added; issuance of import licenses for goods
on the basis of installed capacity has resulted in incentives to overinvest
in capacity for which there is no domestic market. With support from the
Asian Development Bank and in consultation with the private sector we have
reviewed our industrial policy. We are currently reviewing our industrial
policy with a view to reducing direct controls and licensing. We anticipate
that the new policy will be issued by the end of this fiscal year.



-47-
Annex V
Page 6 of 12
17.     Foreign trade with India, our largest trading partner, is generally
free. We have recently taken measures to reduce restrictions on foreign
trade with other countries. In the area of export licensing we have aban-
doned the practice of announcing a list of items free from export licensing
and have changed to announcing a list of items requiring export licenses with
all others remaining free. Items remaining subject to license are certain
strategic goods, such as foodgrains, and other items which are subject, from
time to time, to export controls in India and consequently covered by a
protocol in the Trade and Transit Treaty which provides that Nepal will
endeavor to prevent this type of trade deflection. In these cases licenses
will be freely given when the bonafides of Nepal origin are established.
18.    A principal objective of policy is to introduce more liberal import
policies. At the beginning of this fiscal year we introduced a passbook
system of automatically granting import licenses for goods subject to licens-
ing on the basis of their installed capacity. This was an improvement over
the previous system which called for the periodic issuance of such licenses
and thus gave rise to uncertainties. Moreover, we have introduced a system
of auctioning import licenses for goods subject to quantitative restriction.
It is aLso our intention to begin converting the current passbook system to
an open general License system. At the same time the introduction of higher
tariffs will aim inter-alia at reducing the incentive to re-export. This
process will take some time. However, as a first step, effective February
1987 we are placing raw wool, gypsum and iron billets under open general
license. At the same time, to strengthen the new liberalized trading
environment, we intend to increase substantially the penalties for deflection
of trade and contravention of the exchange and trade laws of Nepal.
19.    The steps to liberalize the industrial and trade environment should
contribute directly to our export promotion campaign. Technical assistance
is being secured from UMDP to improve our export policies and procedures.
This would cover customs (for imports also) and licensing procedures, access
to duty free imports incLuding efforts to set up the EPZ, and further
rationalization of export licensing and other procedures. Moreover, we have
recently established a two-tier export development comittee, chaired by the
Governor of the Rastra Bank and including the Secretaries of Commerce,
Finance and Industry which will meet periodically - with a secretariat to
be provided by the Trade Promotion Center. Finally, two of our principal
export industries have been subject to significant vagaries with respect to
imported inputs (carpets) and market shares (garments). With a view to
guaranteeing the timely and adequate stock of imported wool for carpets we
have recently placed wool under open general license. As regards garments we
have introduced a policy from late 1986 of allocating the garment quotas well
before the end of the Cregorian calendar year, that is by November 1, for
the following year.



-48-
Annen: V
Page 7Eof 12
20.     Under our new industrial policy, we have -ecently moved to liberalize
industrial licedsing. Whereas previously most industries were subject to
license, now cottage industries and those with imported raw material require-
ments that do not exceed 10 percent of total requirement will not be subject
to license. Firms with raw material import requirements that range from
above 10 to 40 percent of total requirement and do not exceed Ks 2 million
will be subject to license. However, issuance of licenses for this category
will be automatic upon review of the bonafides of their technical
specifications. Firms having raw material import requirement of greater than
10 percent or Ks 2 million will be licensed as in the past. These measures
will substantially increase the number of industries free from licensing.
21.     Switching to a simplified system of tariffs is a key element of our
adjustment policy. During the course of this SAL, it is our intention to
introduce a series of 7 tariff slabs, ranging from 0 percent to 100 percent.
An important principle in setting the tariff bands on third country imports
is that they will be set with a view to reducing the incentive to re-export
them. With a view to harmonizing this objective with our intent to gradually
achieve an appropriate rate of real effective protection, fiscal incentives,
such as duty draw backs will be introduced. While in principle it is the
intent that all commodities should fall within the bands, certain luxury
items will remain above the bands and certain commodities which are being
taxed to support an administered price, such as POL products, Vill remain
above the ceiling.
22.     Finally, with regard to fiscal incentives, we have received substan-
tial advisory assistance with respect to tax policy as it effects both
government revenues and incentives. It is our intention during the course of
this SAL to draw up an action plan taking into account the advice that we
have received from the IMF, the ADB and the IBRD and our private sector.
This plan is reflected in our industrial policy statement as well as in our
fiscal planning; it will also assist us in our efforts to increase substan-
tially government revenue collections.
Agriculture and Forestry Policies
23.     Despite considerable and rapidly rising investments in the agricul-
tural sector, crop production has failed to keep pace with population growth.
Major causes of this trend include organizational and institutional
weaknesses in supporting agencies, the absence of a consistent policy
framework and sometimes ineffective operational follow-up. Therefore, in
this sector our adjustment policies call for: strengthening the effective-
ness of public sector institutions charged with supporting agriculture;
reducing, if not eliminating, the drain on public sector finances caused by



-49-
Annex V
Page B of 12
such entities as the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC) and the Nepal Food
Corporation (NYC); rationalizing the direction and scope of public sector
interventions; and making increased use of the private sector to further
agricultural development, diversification and growth.
24.    An important firstistep in improving the effectiveness of both AIC
and NEC is to strengthen their finances and their financial management. Thus
we intend to prepare and implement a time-bound plan to restore the financial
viability of both institutions. Technical assistance programs have already
been initiated to help improve the accounting systems of both corporations.
We intend that AIC will complete its overdue accounts for 1984/85 and 1985/86
within the next few months. In addition we have taken steps to liquidate
AIC's debts and to ensure that it is paid for fertilizers sold to the rural
cooperatives (Sajhas). Adequate provision of funds will be made in BMC's
1987/88 Budget to cover the difference between AIC's budgeted costs and
expected sales revenues. NFC's accounting capacity has already been sig-
nificantly strengthened; an important aspect of this concerns the adoption of
practices to allow a clear distinction between NFC's commercial operations
and its social welfare responsibilities. We expect NEC to submit final
accounts for all years through 1985/86 very shortly and to henceforth submit
accounts within six months of the close of the financial year. We have also
taken measures to ensure full and prompt payment to NFC by other public
sector entities for foodstuffs delivered to them by November 1987. Similar
to the provision to be made for AIC, beginning with HMG's 1987188 Budget
adequate provision will be made to compensate NFC fully for carrying out
welfare functions on behalf of HXC; additionally, NFC will be provided with
sufficient operating funds to undertake its day-to-day operations.
25.     Improving the effectiveness of fertilizer procurement and distribu-
tion throughout the country is an important goal of our structural adjustment
policies. Among major issues being addressed are nutrient content and
agronomic suitability of fertilizers imported, finances and pricing, and
improvements in the distribution system. Substantial quantities of fer-
tilizer have been imported into Nepal which are low in nutrient content, have
high unit transport costs and are of doubtful utility on most of Nepal's
soils and crops. Our farmers, however, have grown accustomed to this
fertilizer. While eliminating such imports in one year is not feasible,
therefore, it is our intention to phase out the imports of such fertilizer
financed by our own resources and to request donors to finance fertilizers
more appropriate to Nepal.
26.     Consistent with our ongoing efforts to strengthen AIC's financial and
operational management and to promote the economic use of fertilizer, we have
introduced more flexibility into fertilizer pricing. These measures include:
clarification of the criteria for determining the structure of fertilizer



-50-
Annex V
Page 9 of 12
wholesale prices in different regions; regular monitoring of fertilizer
prices on both sides of the Indo-Nepal border and, if significant differences
exist, prompt adjustment of fertilizer wholesale prices with a view to
eliminating the incentive for unauthorized fertilizer exports; and empowering
AIC to automatically adjust prices by up to 10 percent if incentives to
smuggle begin to emerge or costs increase. As regards the distribution of
fertilizer, we have in recent years been relying increasingly upon the
private sector. Its share in total distribution is estimated to have
increased from less than 3 percent in 1983/84 to 25 percent in 1985/86. To
improve fertilizer availability throughout the country we are now licensing
private traders to engage in fertilizer distribution in all parts of the
country on both a wholesale and retail basis. Consistent with this, we will
increase the permissible retailers' margins in FY88, so as to provide better
incentives, and by Sajhas provide financial incentives for off-season pur-
chases from AIC. Our cooperatives, the Sajhas, represent an important part
of our national institutional structure. In the past they have relied
primarily upon profits made from trading in fertilizer to finance the:.r
activities. It is our intention to frame a plan to reduce their dependence
upon fertilizer related activities, to the extent mandated by the growing
role of the private sector, and to help them find alternative means to
finance their activities.
27.     Crop production is also constrained by inadequate supply and the very
low rate of use of quality cereal seeds. Improvement in this sector requires
a broad range of actions with respect to institutions, operations and finan-
cial arrangements. The key objectives of structural reform in this subsector
include: improving the supply and timely availability of quality cereal
seeds; providing a clear legal basis and effective institutional arrangements
for all essential institutions involved; and expanding the capability of the
existing seed production, processing and marketing system, including through
increased utilization of private sector capacities. Key elements of change
will be the adoption of a National Seed Act to provide the legal framework
and basis for regulating seed production, processing, certification and
marketing and the creation of a national authority to regulate the seeds
industry and trade.
28.     Foodgrain marketing and distribution is another area where we intend
to effect substantial changes. Although foodgrain trading in Nepal is over-
whelmingly a private sector activity, increasing concerns over potential
threats to food security have led to some public sector involvement. The
objective of adjustment in this sector is to promote increased foodgrain
security throughout the country and to achieve this more effectively and at a
lesser cost than in the past. An important precondition for this is to
improve the financial and operational efficiency of NFC, and we have detailed



-51-
Annex V
Page 10 of 12
measures to achieve this ab.ve. Beyond that, we intend to adopt a number of
measures which will improve operations in this sector.
29.     With respect to domestic foodgrain procureament by NFC, we bave
already discontinued procurement through levies; henceforth, all procurement
from domestic production will be exclusively through purchases at or above
procurement prices announced prior to sowing/planting and set with due regard
to those in effect across the border.  As noted above, we have already made
provision for sufficient operating funds to NPC to ensure effective primary
procurement operations during 1986187, and we intend to ensure adequate
funding in the future. To make procurement more efficient at the farmgate
level, we are now also utilizing Sajhas as intermediaries in NFC's foodgrain
procurement.
30.    NFC foodgrain sales in the Katbmmadu Valley have long taken place at
subsidized prices and to the population at large, rather than to clearly
identified needy target groups. We have already begun to implement a program
for operating an effective consumer price stabilization program in the
Kathmuandu Valley, replacing the current practice of subsidized year--ound
sales, as a pilot operation for future replication in other major consumer
centers. It will be extended to all other accessible areas in two additional
phases.  An important aspect of this progrm is that NWC's market sales
(e.g., excluding food distribution under specific relief and welfare
programs) will take place at prices that fully cover domestic unit costs.
Furthermore, we have begun work on preparing a detailed plan for identifying
consumer groups vulnerable to chronic and/or severe seasonal food shortages
and for distributing foodgrains to them.
31.    Agricultural research in Nepal has been fragented, inadequately
funded, without clear objectives and priorities, and subject to inappropriate
administrative procedures. As a first step toward the eventual creation of
an autonomous research planning, funding, and coordination body at the
national level, which would set national research priorities, control funding
and provide the necessary incentives for research and coordination with other
institutions, we have established a National Agricultural Research
Coordination Committee (NARCC), supported by a permanent secretariat, with
adequate permanent staff and other resources. In addition we have established
a National Agricultural Research Services Center (NASC) co manage agricul-
tural research activities in accordance with the guideliTnes and priorities
established by NARCC. We also intend to prepare a plan for establishing, by
the end of the Seventh Plan period, an autonomous National Research Board or
Council, to be created out of the nucleus provided by NABCC, NARSC and the
research units of other entities currently under the administrative control
of the Ministry of Agriculture.



:~~~~                                       ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  -  
-52-
Annex V
?age 11 of 12
32.     Nepal's forestry resources are rapidly diminishing.  Given the limits
on HMC's financial and human resources, it is essential to involve the
population at the local level in efforts to manage the country's forestry
resources.  We have already taken various oteps to facilitate this, but.have
found that there still are important disincentives which need to be
eliminated. Accordingly, we intend ta modiffjthe existing legal and
administrative regulations concerning revenue collection so as to allow
legally established forest user groups at the Panchayat or Ward level to
retain the entire revenues realized from the sale-of forest products
extracted from Panchayat Protected Forests under their management immediately
upon the realization of such revenues.  NQreoveih, we intend to authorize
these forest user groups to employ a paid-member-secretary to conduct day-to-
day business, and hire laborers needed (e.g., nursery staff, forest watchmen,
forest foremen) to manage forests and related assets and facilities umder
their care. We also vill take steps to provide the necessary clarification
of legal and administrative provisions concerning the ownership and utiiizc-
tion of trees on privately-owned land.
Public Enterprise Policies
33.     Nepal's public enterprises represent a i'ery mixed group of undertak-
ings and they have generally performed poorly. During the immediate pericd
ahead we plan to focus on measures to improve the operating efficiency and
.strengthen the finances of the AIC and tIe4 NYC.'. Consistent with HKG policy
in this sector-which is that most of these industries should be sold in
whole or part and that only those industries occupying a non-commercial ot
natural monopoly position should continue to be operated in the public
sector-we intend to implement a number of other.measures to begin to reduce
the size of this sector and strengthen its managerial capacity and finances.
We have classified most of the existing corporations into those whicblIare to
be sold, in whoLe or part, and those to be retained in the public sector.
For those PEs which remain in the public-seetor uid require subsidies there
will be explicit budgetary provision. Furthermore, t-o guide future decisions
in this area we plan to formulate by early i987188 a policy to guide any-new
investments in and by public enterprises and their operation.
34.     Recently, with a view to gaining better control over the finances of
the Pes we have adopted a new policy of limiting sevprly the issuarme of
government guarantees for PE borrowings from the banking system. Th1 ^Swill
curb the use of bank credit by PEs and ease the task of the -fincL ial manage-
ment of the economy as well as disciplining the PEs. Hea&.£fort"Si i will- i
have annual credit plans and the Government will limit its guazantee only toi-
the amount in the annual plan.
1        \



-53-
Annex V
Page 12 of 12
35. With a view to increasing the efficient management of the PEa,
Government has for the last two fiscal years established criteria for apply-
ing as to awards and penalties to PE managers on the basis of their
performance. We are currently determining the awards and penalties to be
applied and intend to implement these accordingly. This thould enhance the
management of the sector.
36.     During the course of this SAL we intend to prepare an action plan to
be supported with technical assistance for closure, partial or complete
divestiture, andfor management and financial reform of the PEs. It is envi-
sioned that these plans will be formulated for each PE and that they will
include specific time-bound reconmendations with respect to finances,
management and steps to lead to divestiture or closing if that is the case.
Recommendations with respect to finances will include, inter-alia, changes
required to adjust the prices charged by natural monopolies to at least
break-even levels.
37.     Finally, studies will be undertaken in the period ahead to lay the
foundation for subsequent policy and institutional reforms. These might be
in the areas of agricultural development strategy; further analysis of
industrial and trade policy (including tourism), and possible linkage with
the power sector; public administration reform; financial sector reform; and
the issue of the pricing trade in energy.
38.     It is the belief of His Kajesty's Government that the policies set
out above provide the basis for a strong program of structural adjustment as
well as reflecting our commitment to a process which will spread over a
number of years. We look forward to the support of IDA and to working with
you and your colleagues in the years ahead.
Mr. Barber B. Conable                       (Bharat Bahadur Pradhan)
President                                   State Minister for Finance
The World Bank                              and Industry
1818 B Street,                              His Majesty's Government
Washington, D.C.                            of Nepal



NEPAL--STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                                                                       Annex VI
POLICY MATRIX 1/
Policy Area and Oblectivas              Action Taken                                    Action To Be Taken                    Timing
I. Macroeconomic Policy                 a. initiated talks on double taxation           a. continue sound macroeconomic   prior to 2nd tranche
To promote balanced growth by           agreement with India;                           policies
achieving the following targets
with respect to GDP by 1990/91;         b. introduced sales tax credit system
hold fiscal deficit to 11              on imports of raw materialus
hold domestic finncting to 1.52
raise development spending to 161       c. eutablished separate sales tax
raise government revenue to 122         offices in six major industrialized
hold regular spending to about 72       urban centres and created a post of
raise government surplus to 52          deputy director in the tax department
raise foreign aid use to 10            for sales taz collection and supervicions
d. revised and improved existing tax lava,
conducted workshop, to train officers
and junior technicians joining revenue
department;
a. established separate office in the
ministry under the joint secretary for
non-tax revenue collection;,
* f. liberalized interest rate policy.
authority to commercial banks to set
own Interest rates on deposits and
l,nding subject to miniminu
S. changed syatm of minimum reserve
requirements to Include minimum deposit
provisions
* b. imposed cellinge on net domestic
assets and credit expansion by monetery
authority;
I. licencee given to two new commercial
banks with foreign partners  and
* j. devalued by 14.72 and adopted a
currency basket system to manage the
exahange-rate.
II. Development Eioenditure Policy,   a. in January 1986, gazette and                   a. program budgeting procedures   to be monitored
To increase steadily the level          notifieation gave more authority to             applied on all project In agri-
quality of investment and O&H           project managers and other senior               culture, irrigation, forestry.
expenditures through improvements       government officials re personnel               power, and transportation in
in project identification,              management and spending;                        detail and rudimtentary analysis
1/ * Denotes actions under IMF program.



-2-
management, and resource control.                                                        of all other projects.
b. Increased utilization of foreign
aid from 6.9S of GDP in 1985/86 to              b. "Core" development program        prior to 2nd tranche;
around 8.22 in 1986/871                         formulated.
c. prior to the 1986/87 budget, P6B             c. program monitoring and con-    to be monitored
exercise started in HoP for agricul-            trol systems installed.
turen irrigation and forestry.
d. improved practices introduced  to bh  monitored
d. 78 (about 501 of Development Budget)         and HMO capacity strengthened in
projects being monitored on the basis           accounting and auditing.
of budgetary release;
a. 13 projects of the 78 being moni-            a. achieve satisfactory perform-  prior to 2nd tranche
tored on the basis of both physical             snce in respect of implementing
and financial performance through               the 13 key development projects being
prototype monitoring system;                    monitored financially and physically.
f. consultants have been selected and           f. consultants to be selected to  to be monitored
have started work on extending the              atrengthen accounting and auditing
coverage of P69 methods and introducing         functions within HMGs
improved program monitoring and control
systemns and procedures; and                                                                                           ,
S. guidelines for terms of reference                                                                                  U
have been agreed for consultants to
design a program of action to strengthen
accounting and auditing functions within
HMO.
lIIIIndustrial and Trade Poliev          a. in February 19861 23 industrial              a. formulation and introduction of
To nove toward a more liberal            items were freed of requirement for             a program of income, sales           Covenant: by
policy reagime for industry,             industrial licensing;                           and excise reforms;                 July 15. 1987
exports and imports
b. agreed with IDA on criteria for              b. implementation of industrial
significant liberalization of indus-            policies in conformity with issued
trims free from industrial licensing;           policy statement;                   to be monitored
c. FY1986/87 budget introduced trade            c. conversion of the tariff
taxesz  revised tariff rates on imports         structure to be system of 7         Covenant: by
of raw materials. New rates range from          bands ranging from 0-100;          July 15. 1987
1% to 52 and 102 according to type of
raw material imported and nature of.



-3-
d. draft industrial strategy paper               d. implementatation of program
prepared and reviewed within government,         to improve and streamline procedures
discusaed with ADB and IDA. industrial           for implementing export and import
seminar convened;                                policies;                            to be monitored
e. converted list of items free from
export industrial licensing to list of
items requiring license, all other.
free;
f. introduction of OGL began;
g. initiated a system of auctioning
import licences on imports subject
to quantitative restrictions;
h. introduced pass-book system for
industrial raw materiel imports;
i. established a two-tier export
development committee;
j. introduced a mecbanism for allocating
US garment quotas before the start of
each year;
IV. Anricultural Policy                  a. AIC's accounts for 1984/85 completed          a. increasing the retail trading
Fertilizer:                              and submitted to the Auditor General;            margins by 2 percentage points and
To increase supply and timely                                                             semi-annual review of wholesale   Ccvenant: by
availability of appropriate              b. a time-bound action plan prepared for         fertilizer prices;                   October 15, 1987
fertilizers; improve economic            strengthening AIC's financial viability:
returns on investment in
fertilizers: reduce losses               c. introduction of a comprehensive pro-          b. specific provision in the         to be monitored
gram to improve the pricing and distri-          budget defraying the excess of
bution of fertilizer;                            budgeted costs over revenues.
d. provide financial incentives                  c. implementation of a simplified
to Sajhas and private dealers for                cereal seed sakes pricing            Covenant: by
off-season purchases from AIC;                   sygtem, including elimination        Oct. 15, 1987
of subsidy on seeds:
Seeds:                                   e. draft statutes for National Seed
To improve supply and timeliness         Board and draft Seed Act prepared and            d. provision of greater financal
especially for major foodgrains;         being reviewed;                                  autonomy to the Seed Division of
improve efficiency of main                                                                AIC and transfer within AIC of
institutions in the seed sector;         f. simplify cereal seed purchase pricing         responsibility for seed distri-
promote greater private sector           procedures and increase dealer incentives.   bution and marketing to the              Covenant: by
participation to expand existing                                                          Seeds Divisiong                      Oct. 15, 1987
seed production. marketing and           g. rationalize purcbase of cereal seeds;
processing system.                                                                        a. establishment of a National    Covenant: by
h. provide for repurchase of seeds;              Seed Board;                          Oct. 15, 1987



-4-
i. prepare proposal to revise cereal           f. designation of farms for the
seed seles prices;                             production of foundation seed.    to be monitored
g. initiation of a program for
improving hill farmers' access
to seed.;                          to be monitored
h. introduce smaller, more
appropriate bags for the trans-
portation and marketing of
certified cereal seeds;            to be monitored
Foodarain Marketina and Diotribution  J. prepared and initiated work on a               i. submission to the Auditor
Increased food                          time-bound action plan to restore the          General's office of complete
production and,. bcurity                financial viability of NFC,                    final accounts for AIC and NFC    Covenants by
throughout the country through                                                         for all financial years through   Oct. 15. 1987
stabilization of consumer                                                               1985/86:
prices, provision of incentives.
k. initiated steps to strengthen NEC's
accounting including the separation of
accounts for commercial activities and
those associated with government's                                                                           L
social welfare programs;
1. initiated a time-bound actine plan          J. provision of sufficient
for other public sector entities to            budgetary allocation to
bring current their overdue obliga-            compensate NYC for the
tions to NFC;                                  costs of carrying out velfare-
oriented functions on behalf of
HNMr                              asecond tranche
m. abolished foodgrain procurement
levy;
n. involvement of the Ssjhas in NEC's          k. preparation of a detailed plan
food grain procurement;                        for identifying conaumer groups
vulnerable to chronic and/or severe
seagonal food shortages and for
distributing foodgrain to such
target groups;                     to be monitored
o. initiated a market-oriented                 1. completion by the Auditor
consumer price stabilization program           General's Office of audits for AIC
in the Kathmandu Valley;                       and NYC accounts for the years    Covenants by
from 1982/83 through 1985/86;      Jan. 31. 1988
Research:
To improve the management of the        p. established a National Agriculture          m. preparation of a plan for
agricultural research activities,       Research Coordination Committee, a             establishing by the end of the
expedite development and testing        permanent secretariat and a National           7th Plan, an autonomous National
of improved technology and improve    Agricultural Research Servlceu Center            Research Board or Council;          to be monitored
utilization of trained manpower         wich a plan for staffing these bodies.



-5-
Porestry.                                                                               n, allow for=st user group. to
To improve the role of the                                                              retain lOOt of revenues from
panchaysts in developing,                                                               forest activities.                  prior to 2nd tranche
managing and using local forestry
resources
V. Public Enterprise Policy             a. physical and financial targets set at        a. preparation of an action plan
To limit the scope of public            beginning of fiscal year and performance        for closure, divestiture and/or
enterprise activity and improve         evaluated quarterly                             managerial reform of the PEs;       prior to 2nd tranche
efficiency of remaining PH..
* b. inereased pricec of commodities(augar        p. implement the 1984/85 and
and fertilizer) to reduce aubsidy;              1985/86 award end penalties         to be monitored
for PE manaeres.
a. floated shares of some public
enterpriaees
d. categorized PEs as whether they are to
be retained. sold in part or aold outright;
e. introduced control of PE borrowings.






