Documnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8464-MAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonnance of
their officdl doties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Bank autholization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1990)
Currency Unit = Rufiyaa (Rf)
US$1.00 = 9.2 Rf
Rfl.00 = US$0.109
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 meter (m)           ,   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)       =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)        =   2.47 acres
1 sq kilometer (km2)  =   0.3861 sq mile
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AM       -   Air Maldive# Limited
AOC      -   Airline Operators' Committee
B707     -   Boeing 707 Aircraft
B737     -   Boeing 737 Aircraft
B747     -   Boeing 747 Aircraft
FC       -   Facilitation Committee
GOM      -   Government of Maldives
ICAO     -   International Civil Aviation Organization
IDB      -   Islamic Development Bank
ILS      -   Instrument Landing System
KFAED    -   Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MAA      -   Maldives Airports Authority
MAS      -   Maldives Air Services Limited
MMA      -   Maldives Monetary Authority
MOT      -   Ministry of Tourism
OPEC     -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PIU      -   Project Implementation Unit



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLI
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .  .   .   iii
I. BACKGROUND ..                                                       1
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Role of IDA and Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C. The Tourism Sector.                                             3
D. The Transport Sector.                                           7
E. The Aviation Subsector.                                         9
F. Lending Experience .10
II.  MALDIVES AIRPORTS AUTHORITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
A. Facilities of Male Airport .11
B. Hale Airport Traffic .12
C.  Organization, Staffing and Training . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
D.  Operations and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
E.    Budgets  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
F. Accounting Practices .15
G.    Audit   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
H.    Insurance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
A. Project Origin .17
B.  Project Objectives and Rationale for IDA Involvement  . . .   17
C.  Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
D. Environmental Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
E.  Cost Estimates and Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
F. Procurement .23
G. Implementation .24
H. Disbursements .25
I. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements . . . . . .   26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
P.O. Cheryan (Financial Consultant), K. Ewing (Aviation Consultant), and J.
Van der Ven (Mission Leader), which visited Maldives during February 12-20,
1990.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
A.    General   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
B. Rate of Return Calculation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
C. Risks ............ . .              ............ .   30
V. FINCIAL EVA.UATION  .. ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    31
A. Existing Situation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
B. Future Prospects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
ANNEXES
1.1    Tourist Arrivals by Month, 1972-88 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
1.2    Bed Capacity by type of Establishment, 1981-88 . . . . . . . .  40
1.3    Bed Occupancy Rate by Month, 1980-88 . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
1.4    Government Revenue from Tourism. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
1.5    Growth in Tourist Arrivals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
1.6    Vessels by Type and Locality, 1988 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
1.7    Road Vehicles by Type, 1984-1988 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
2.1    Airport Traffic 1970-1989. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
2.2    Airport Traffic Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
2.3    Aircraft Movements ...................  ..  .   48
2.4    Action Plan for Accounting Improvements. . . . . . . . . . . .  49
2.5    Draft TOR for Consultancy Services in Accounting, Financial
and Information Procedures ........  ...  ..  ...  .   .   50
3.1    Financing Plan ........................   56
3.2    Supervision Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  57
3.3    Estimated Disbursement Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  58
3.4    Progress Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59
4.1    Economic Evaluation - 20 Year Period . . . . . . . . . . . . .  61
4.2    Economic Evaluation - 10 Year Period . . . . . . . . . . . . .  62
4.3    Evaluation of Alternative Levels of Investment . . . . . . . .  63
5.1    MAA - Pro Forma Cash Flow Statement. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  66
5.2(a)  Schedule of Airport Charges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  67
(b)  Sample Landing and Handling Charges. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
5.3    Financial Assumptions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  70
5.4    MAA - Income statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  72
5.5    MAA - Projected Statement of Sources and Applications
of Funds . . ...73
5.6    MAA - Projected Balance Sheet. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  74
6      Selected Documents Available in the Project File . . . . . . .  75
Charts
1.  Maldives Airports Authority
2.  Project Implementation Schedule
IBRD No. 22127  Maldives - Male Airport Upgrading Project



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower             : Republic of Maldives
Amount               s SDR 5.9 million (US$7.5 million equivalent)
Terms                : Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives  s The project aims at maintaining the viability and
and Description      s growth potential of tourism, the key sector of the
economy, through improvements at Male airport upon
which the tourist industry is critically dependent.
To this end the project provides for rehabilitation/up-
grading of the airport's facilities and for institution
building through technical assistance and training. It
includes in particular: (i) runway rehabilitation and
extension; (ii) reconstruction of the aircraft turning
pads; (iii) extension of the aircraft parking apron;
(iv) shore protection works; tv) modification and
extension of the terminal complex; (vi) aids to navi-
gation; (vii) equipment; and (viii) technical
assistance and training.
Benefits and Risk   s The project will safegua;d the revenue generating
capacity of the tourist industry and provides the basis
for its continued growth. Without the project, the
cost of bringing tourists to Maldives would increase
rapidly thereby reducing the scope for domestic value
added and hence for government revenues from tourism.
Although cost estimates are based on detailed engineer-
ing designs, some uncertainty remains regarding the
cost estimate for the works components given the
general unfamiliarity of foreign contractors with
working conditions in the Maldives. This risk will be
addressed by: (1) ensuring that all prospective bid-
ders are fully familiar with the situation in the
Maldives early on in the bidding process; and (2) using
a contract form which is zecognized ini tLise ildubtry s
balanced and fair.



- iv -
E_timated Project Cost:                 Local     Foreign      Total
-------- US$ Million ------
Civil Works                             0.73      17.92        18.65
Equipment                               0.00       2.23         2.23
Consultants and Training                0.06       1.62         1.68
Total Base Cost                         0.79      21.77        22.56
Contingencies:   Physical               0.06        1.82        1.88
Price                 0.05       1.46         1.51
Sub-Total Contingencies           0.11        3.28         3.39
Total Project Cost /a              0.90      25.05        25.95
Financing Plan:                         Local     Foreign      Total
$ US$ Million ------
Government of Maldives                  0.79        4.16        4.95
IDA                                     0.11       7.39         7.50
Kuwait Fund                                        8.50         8.50
OPEC Fund                                          2.00         2.00
Islamic Development Bank                           3.00         3.00
Total                         0.90       25.05        25.95
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                                  FY91       FY92         FY93
-------(US$ million)------
Annual                                  0.93        5.30        1.27
Cumulative                              0.93       6.23         7.50
Economic Rate of Return:    36Z on 97Z of total project cost
apt T BRf 22127
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.1       Maldives is an archipelago of about 1,200 small coral islands in the
Indian Ocean, lying to the southwest of India and Sri Lanka. The islands are
grouped into 19 atolls, forming a long chain extending 820 km from north to
south and 130 km from east to west at its widest point. The total land area,
however, amounts to only 298 km2. The population is estimated at 205,000 and
is growing at an annual rate of about 3.4 percent. GNP per capita is esti-
mated at US$410 (1988). About a quarter of the population lives in the
capital Male which is the only urban center. The rest is fairly evenly
dispersed on some 200 other islands.
1.2       Maldives faces formidable development constraints owing principally
to geographic dispersion, lack of natural resources and small population base.
The country has no minerals and basic resources such as land, fresh water and
durable building materials are very scarce. Less than 10 percent of the
already limited land area is cultivable and agricultural production--mostly
subsistence cultivation of coarse grains, tubers and tropical fruits--meets
only 10 percent of food consumption. Few of the many islands have an area in
excess of one sq km and the majority have populations of less than 500 each.
Moreover, the highly dispersed pattern of small settlements greatly increases
the cost of providing interisland transport and essential social infrastruc-
ture. The cost of interisland transport is also affected by the high inci-
dence of strong currents and shallow water in the reefs surrounding the
islands which imposes additional constraints on vessel design. Finally, the
limited population and the small size of the domestic market virtually
preclude manufacturing production aimed at the domestic market.
1.3       Traditionally the Maldives existed from fishing and subsistence
agriculture, exchanging limited surplus production of fish and coconut with
Sri-Lankans for rice, cooking oil and other necessities which could not be
locally produced. During the past two decades, however, Maldives has astutely
and successfully developed the few assets of its marine environment. First,
being blessed with abundant fishery resources, fishir.g has been transformed
from a predominantly subsistence activity to a modern itidustry able to compete
effectively in world markets through mechanization of traditional fishing
boats and the provision of supporting infrastructure. Production increased
from around 30,000 tons p.a. in the early 1970s to more than 60,000 tons in
the late 1980s while quantities exported grew even faster currently reaching
some 40,000 tons p.a.. The contribution of fisheries to GDP is about
16 percent.



-2-
1.4       Second, the coral islands and the surrounding marine environment
provide potential for a special type of tourism. The riches of the sea in
particular constitute a great attraction for divers and snorklers. Tourism
started on a modest basis in the early 19709 and grew at a rapid pace from
some 1,000 visitors in 1972 to 158,000 in 1989. In the mid 1980s tourism
established itself as the lead sector of the economy and currently accounts
for about 17 percent of GDP, 60 percent of foreign exchange earnings and about
a quarter of government tax revenues.
1.5       Owing to the success of the fisheries and tourism sectors,  the
Maldives achieved remarkable economic growth during the past decade, with real
GDP rising at an average annual rate of about 10 percent. This gave the
Government the possibility to devote growing resources to development.
Considering the country's level of development, the Government budget is large
in relation to the economy with domestic revenues amounting to nearly 30 per-
cent of GDP and expenditures close to 40 percent. Tax revenue, mostly import
duties and tourism-related taxes provide about 60 percent of total receipts;
profit transfers from public enterprises and rent from Government land leased
for tourism development make up the rest. The budget deficit has been
financed by foreign grants and borrowing on concessionary terms.
1.6       The balance of payments situation reflects the large role of the
foreign sector in the economy; imports and exports almost equal GDP. Follow-
ing a marked deterioration in the early 1980s, the external payments position
has improved substantially in recent years. Sizable deficits on the merchan-
dise trade account are largely offset by surpluses on the services account
originating from the tourism sector.   Since March 1, 1987, the Rufiaa,
previously pegged to a basket of currencies has been allowed to float freely.
1.7       Owing to the constraints and limitations faced by Maldives, the
economy is by necessity open and vulnerable to factors which are outside the
control of the country. This vulnerability was demonstrated, for example, in
the early 1970s by the loss of the export market for fish and in the early
19808 by the decline in international shipping rates which for a number of
years turned the Maldives shipping company from a major earner of foreign
exchange to a burden on the economy. For the medium term, growth of the
economy will continue to depend mainly on fishing and tourism. In particular,
the ability of the tourism sector to continue to grow--albeit at a more modest
rate than in the past--will be a key factor for sustaining the development
process.
B. Role of IDA and Lending Strategy
1.8       IDA's assistance strategy for Maldives focusses on supporting the
two main growth sectors, fisheries and tourism, as well as human resource
development and an expanded program of economic and sector work. Given the
important role and potential of fisheries, IDA's initial assistance strategy
concentrated on this sector. However, with the rapid growth of the economy,
emphasis was also given to removing the constraints to overall economic deve-
lopment and human resource development in particular. An Education and Train-
ing project, approved in FY89, is designed to assist in alleviating the
shortage of skilled labor, a critical constraint in the economy. The Male
Airport Upgrading Project aims at supporting continued growth of the tourist
industry which has become the most important sector of the economy. A Third



Fish.rtes Project is also under consideration. Lending is being complemented
by an increased program of economic and sector work.
C.  The Tourism Sec.or
Past Development and Current Situation
1.9       As a tourist destination, the Maldives lies far from its generating
markets and it can only offer a limited range of attractions. However, its
unpolluted beaches, opportunities for diving and snorkeling among spectacular
coral and marine life, clear warm lagoon waters and desert island atmosphere,
have been astutely developed.   Starting with only two resorts and 1,097
arrivals in 1972, the tourist industry has grown rapidly. By 1980 there were
32 resorts in operation with a bed capacity of 2.402 and total arrivals of
42,007. By end 1989 the industry counted 63 resorts with a total bed capacity
of 7,562 and total arrivals of about 158,000 (Annexes 1.1 and 1.2).
1.10      In the past five years about three-quarters of tourists came from
Western Europe, 20 percent from Asia and the remainder from other parts of the
World.  The majority of tourists arrive in groups arranged by travel
agents/tour operators and relatively few tourists arrive independently. Most
visitors come for either one or two weeks with the average duration of stay
now approaching ten days, up from seven days in the early 19809.
1.11      As the total number of visitors increased, the seasonal fluctuations
in arrivals tended to become less pronounced. In the late 19708 and early
19809 the period December-March had very high seasonal peaks which had largely
disappeared by the late 19808. This smoothing of seasonal fluctuations has
been reflected in bed occupancy rates which have improved over the last ten
years from 43 percent in the early 1980s to over 60 percent by 1988 1/
(Annex 1.3).
1.12      The remarkable growth performance of the industry is in no small
measure the result of the pragmatic approaches--placing heavy reliance on the
private sector--adopted by Government. More than 80 percent of the islands,
which by law remain in the public domain, are leased to the private sector.
Of the leaseholders about 85 percent are Maldivian the rest being foreign or
joint ventures. All resorts are managed by the private sector and 57 percent
of the management companies are Maldivian.
1.13      Resort development companies have mobilized most of the capital
necessary for resort development, including the use of retained earnings,
towards successive upgrading and expansion phases. The role of the commercial
banks established in the country has focussed on providing working capital.
Tourism's share of commercial bank loans and advances has ranged between 30
percent and 60 percent. The sector, however, was never given concessionary
financial conditions.
1/   In 1989 the overall occupancy rate dropped somewhat as the growth in bed
capacity was not matched by a corresponding increase in total arrivals.



-4-
1.14      Resorts are located on formerly uninhabited islands mostly within
Male Atoll (of which the capital Male and Male Airport also form a part) and
Ari Atoll. Each resort occupies its own island and forms a self-contained
tourist comnunity. There are no Maldivian settlements on tourist islands
other than accommodations provided for resort personnel. The size of the
resorts has increased over time. Whereas in the early years the average
resort had less than 50 beds, by the end of the 1980s the average size was
well above 100 beds. In 1988 six resorts had more than 200 beds, 24 had
between 100 and 200 beds and 28 had less than 100 beds. Only five had less
than 50 beds.
1.15      Accommodations offered range from the very simple to luxury stan-
dards of comfort. Typically rooms are at ground level, two or three clustered
in structures which blend with the environment. Common areas and facilities
are housed in a central complex. Every resort is largely self-sufficient and
has its own facilities such as electricity, water supply, waste disposal,
communications and boat jetties. Resorts also maintain boats to transport
guests, staff and goods to and from Male and the Airport and for recreation.
1.16      Most resorts rely for their clientele on group tours arranged by
three or four operators. Inclusive charges (accommodation and three meals per
day based on double occupancy) range from $50 per day in simple resorts to
$180 per day in the more luxurious category. Accommodation is paid for in
foreign exchange direct to resort operators by the tour operators who organize
and market the package tours.
The Role of Tourism
1.17      Tourism makes a very substantial contribution to the Maldivian eco-
nomy in terms of government revenue, GDP, foreign exchange earnings and
employment. The sector contributes to government revenues through taxes and
charges levied both directly and indirectly on tourists. The bednight tax--
U'.$6.0 since November 1988--yields the highest direct revenues followed by the
lease income from the resorts.2/ Revenues, however, also accrue indirectly in
the form of duties paid on imports consumed by tourists. For 1989 the total
of these revenues is estimated at US$22.11 million (Annex 1.4). The net
contribution after deduction of tourist related expenditures amounts to
US$19.41 million which is all in foreign exchange.
1.18      The contribution of tourism to GDP--wages, rent, depreciation, net
indirect taxes and profits--is estimated at 17.4 percent by the Ministry of
Planning. A study conducted in 1987 estimated the contribution of the sector
at US$27.9 million for 1986. Tourist receipts are also the most important
single source of foreign exchsige earnings.  Gress receipt"-°or total expendl-
tures by tourists--were estimated at US$63.3 million in 1988.   The net
foreign exchange earnings, however, are significantly lower as a large part of
the expenditures concern imported goods and services.
2/   Because of the airport's status as a government department the airport
service fee of US$7.0 per passenger and the aircraft landing and service
fees are also counted by government as direct revenues generated in the
context of the tourist industry.



1.19      Employment in the sector is estimated at around 5,500 reflecting a
ratio of about 0.75 staff per bed. Rapid growth of the industry has led to
acute pressures in the labor market. Shortages are most severe in the
skilled, professional and managerial categories and these have been met by
increased use of foreign labor. Close to 20 percent of the labor force is
foreign.  To help meet the demand for skilled labor, tLe Government estab-
lished a hotel school in 1987. Current annual output is about 30 students for
the main course and 75 students for the short courses.
1.20      Wages paid to resort personnel range from Rf 600 for unskilled labor
to more than Rf 5,000 per month for resort managers. Since there is no
income tax in Maldives and the resorts provide food and other essentials for
their employees, most of the earnings are disposable income. Empy_yees rei'it
a large part of this income to their famiVes in their islands of origin. The
annual transfer to households in the atolls has been estimated on the order of
Rf 50 million or more than US$5.0 million which is equivalent to about 20
percent of total Government development expenditure. Thus, part of the marked
improvement in living standards during the past decade can be attributed to
remittances from tourism employment.
1.21      Increased human activities around the islands will inevitably rais-.
some environmental issues. In the early years of the development of tourism,
insufficient attention was given to environmental protection. For example,
coral stone was used extensively for construction purposes while various waste
materials were not appropriately treated. Since then, however, the Government
has come to recognize that appropriate policies and guidelines aimed at pro-
tecting the unique marine environment are of great importance not only for the
sake of preservation of national resources but also for the long term sustain-
ability of the tourist industry. It has made earnest efforts to correct harm-
ful practices and regulations have been issued detailing minimum requirements
in regard to design features of the resorts and to resort operation. In par-
ticular, the removal of vegetation and the use of coral stone for building
purposes are strictly regulated, and resorts need to be equipped with incine-
rators and compactors for the treatment of waste material.
1.22      Protection of the environment is now high on the Goverment's agenda
and recent initiatives provide an institutional and policy framework which is
generally conducive to environmentally sound practices. These initiatives
include: (i) establishment of an environmental group, headed by a Director,
within the Ministry of Planning which was renamed Ministry of Planning and the
Environmen': (ii) creation of an Environmental Commission under the Chairman-
ship of the Deputy Minister of Planning and the Environment whose function
includes the screening of all projects from the environmental point of view;
(iii) th.e preparation of an umbrei1: l:- on environm4!Atal plotictlot (-Alirb 1s
in an advanced stage of preparation) to provide the basis for more appropriate
rule-making and enforcement by the sectoral ministries; and (iv) inclusion of
environment awareness courses in the school curriculum.
1.23      The spatial characteristics of the Maldives as a country of numerous
uninhabited and few inhabited islands makes it well suited for a controlled
form of tourism where Maldivians do not generally come into contact with
tourists except while working on the resort islands and where tourists are not
considered as a threat to traditional cultural values. Because of this aspect



- 6-
and because the Maldives have since ancient times been in contact with the
outside world, the direct socio-cultural impact of tourism has been minimal.
It would be difficult to separate tourism's share from the overall impact of
exposure to the outside world through foreign traders, expatriate development
staff and the effect of large numbers of young Maldivians studying abroad.
Outlook for Tourism
1.24      The wovernment has assigned a key role to tourism for the deve.op-
ment of the nation and expects the sector to increase its contribution to the
growth and equitable distribution of national income, to government revenues
and to em'loyment. Given the many limitations faced by the Maldives, achieve-
ment of these objectives will continue to require careful policymaking. As
Maldives represents a relatively small share of the world tourist market, even
within its specific segment of the market, from the demand s.de the outlook is
favorable on account of growth in tourism in general and through growth in
market share, The limited potential for increasing the supply of tourist
accommodation, however, largely determines the prospects for the industry, at
least in the short to medium term.
1.25      Further substantial increases in tourist accommodation are severely
constrained by geography, i.e. by the extreme dispersion of the atolls and the
transport problems it creates. Islands which are within a few hours sailing
time (20-30 km) from the airport are most suitable for tourism development.
These islands are all occupied already. Given these limitations, to achieve
its broad goals, the Government's strategy aims at: (i) raising the overall
standards and quality of service of existing resorts; (ii) moving towards more
standardized products; (iii) improving occupancy rates; (iv) some further
modest increases in bed capacity; (v) strengthening the linkages between the
tourict industry and other sectors; and (vi) manpower training.
1.26      Specific measures and initiatives already taken include the setting
of minimum design standards for resorts, selective increases in taxation (such
as the increase in the bed tax from US$3.0 to 'JS$6.0), and the lengthening of
the lease period to 21 years. The latter measure will make it possible for
developers to secure loans with longer maturity periods and lower interest
charges. The Government is also pursuing more vigorous marketing of Maldives
as a tourist destination to stimulate demand at the level of the final con-
sumer and thereby reduce reliance on tour operators for generating demand.
Service by more scheduled airlines to Male is also encouraged to facilitate
more individual arrivals. To increase bed capacity the Government has been
promoting a new tourism zone in Ari Atoll comprising 15 resort islands.
1.27      In view of the importance of tourism for the economy, the Government
is aware of the need to carefully formulate the different aspects of its poli-
cies in the sector. It recognizes that the monitoring of tourist develop-
ments, both internationally and in Maldives, can be of great value as an input
to policy formulation and it is strengthening its monitoring capabilities. In
financial terms, the Government's most important contribution by far to the
further development of the tourism sector is the upgrading of Male airport,
the efficient operation of which is increasingly constrained by several criti-
cal problems. If these were left uncorrected, not only would further growth
of the tourism sector be halted, but more importantly, it would result in



rapid deterioration of the level of service offered to airlines and passengers
and hence in a rapid reduction in government revenues from tourism.
1.28      The tourist resort companies on their part are engaged on an impor-
tant investment program (on the order of US$10-20 million per annum) covering
new development, expansion, renovation and upgrading. These investments and
the Government's investment in the airport are mutually supportive and by the
same token the private sector is demonstrating its confidence in the future
outlook for tourism. Tourist arrivals are therefore expected to continue to
grow broadly in line with planned increases in bed capacity. The pace of
growth, however, would be more modest than in the past, with arrivals reaching
some 225,000 by the year 2000 (Annex 1.5).   Upgrading of the resorts is
expected to continue in parallel with the upgrading of the Maldives holiday
package in general, including Improvement of the facilities at Male airport.
By the year 2000 a larger proportion of tourists would arrive individually,
but average occupancy at the resorts would not increase much above uurrent
levels.
D. The Transport Sector
1.29      Owing to the small size and dispersed location of the coral islands,
the structure and composition of Maldives' transport sector is unusual. For
domestic communications inter-island sea transport is the dominant mode. For
international goods transport both shipping and aviation play an important
role, while for international passenger transport, aviation is practically the
only mode.
Inter-Island Transport
1.30      Inter-island passenger and goods transport go largely by sea.
Recently, however, air transport has also taken some importance for passenger
movements between Male and some atolls (para. 1.35). Traditionally, transport
was by sailing boats; these are increasingly being mechanized resulting in a
marked improvement in inter-island transport services. Data on the total
number of boats exclusively engaged in transport and on the volume of inter-
island traffic have not been collected systematically.3/ Available data on
the vessel fleet, however, indicate that the total number of vessels has con-
tinued to increase and amounted to some 12,900 units in 1989. Of these,
73 percent were fishing vessels which are occasionally engaged on goods trans-
ports (Annex 1.6). Transport is almost exclusively by owner-operators.
Maldives Transport and Contracting Company (HTCC), which is 60 percent
Government owned, engages in some inter-island cransport and land transport in
Male.
1.31      The Government has sought in the past to develop inter-island trans-
port, inter alia, through installation of navigation aids and telecommunica-
tions equipment and through a project aimed at direct operation of specialized
vessels, able to carry both cargo and passengers on scheduled inter-island
transport services. The concept and the vessels, however, proved to be ill-
suited mainly owing to excessive fuel requirements. In the light of the
3/   A survey will be carried out in 1990 with the view of initiating syste-
matic data collection.



-8-
experience gained from this project the Government decided against direct
involvement in shipping services leaving this activity to the private sector.
The Government's role was redefined as being limited to providing the essen-
tial intrastructure required for efficient and safe inter-island transport.
1.32      The country's domestic transport system is represented by 18 outer
atoll nodes and r- central node (Male) all being points of commodity origin
and destination wnich are linked in a radial pattern by separate routes to
Male. Traffic on these routes consists of atoll and Male related imports and
exports. Atoll exports to Male are principally unprocessed, low value and
bulky goods such as sand and coconut destined for use in the capital. Atoll
imports consist mainly of high-value basic foodstuffs, consumer goods and
petroleum. A brief review of inter-island transport carried out by the Asian
Development Bank estimated the 1987 Male-atolls traffic at 18,000 tons and the
atolls-Male traffic at 10,000 tons. The latter flow was estimated to have
declined from levels reached in the early 1980s.
Land Transport
1.33      Land transport is concentrated on the capital island of Male where
most of the registered vehicles are to be found. The number of cars, trucks
and buses totalled some 1275 units in 1989; bicycles and motorcycles dominate
with 26341 units (Annex 1.7). The concentration of motorized vehicles in Male
has created problems of congestion ind pollution which have led the Government
to curb vehicle use through the imposition of higher import duties and annual
registration fees on motorized vehicles.
International Shipping
1.34      In the 19709, international shipping was an important source of
foreign exchange, government revenues and employment on account of the activi-
ties of Maldives Shipping Lines (MSL). In 1976, a peak operating year, the
line owned a fleet of 34 vessels while managing another 18. During the
following years, however, the fortunes of the company declined, owing mainly
to the worldwide economic slowdown which resulted in lower freight rates and
much reduced opportunities for cross-trade which was the main source of
activity for MSL. The company was liquidated and its assets and activities
have been taken over by a new parastatal, Maldives National Shipping
Management Limited (MNSML). Following rationalization and restructuring,
national shipping operations have returned to profitability. The new company
is engaged mainly in tramp-shipping and now operates some 13 vessels totalling
107,000 dwt and employs about 500 seafarers.
1.35      The country's main port is at Male which offers lighterage facili-
ties for ocean-going vessels. Phase I of the upgrading of the lighterage
harbor, including construction of a new quay and shed, and provision of some
equipment, was recently completed.



E. The Aviation Sector
1.36      The aviation sector has come to play an tn'reasingly important role
in the Haldives not only on account of tourism, but also for international and
domestic communications. The remarkable increase in tourist arrivals at Male
airport 17* recent years is matched by the rate of increase in other traffic,
though from a much lower base. Male airport on Hulule island near the capital
Male is the most important facility and represents the largest single invest-
ment in the country.  In addition there are three regional airports.  The
airport at Gan on Addu Atoll makes use of military facilities vacated by the
U.K. in 1976. A second regional airport at Kadhdhoo, Hadhdhunmathi Atoll, was
opened at the end of 1986 while a third airport at Hanimadhoo in North
Thiladhunmathi Atoll will become operational in 1990. A fourth airport in
Huvadhu Atoll is under consideration. Four entities, coming under the Presi-
dent's office, are involved in the aviation sector: (i) the Department of
Civil Aviation; (ii) Maldives Airport Authority; (iii) Maldives Air Services
Limited; and (iv) Air Maldives.
Department of Civil Aviation (DCA)
1.37      Until December 1988 a single entity known as the Civil Aviation
Authority was responsible for administering both the civil aviation affairs
and the airports of the Maldives. Effective January 1, 1989 the two functions
were divided with the creation of two separate entities, DCA being respon-
sible, inter alia, for regulatory matters and questions of bilateral traffic
rights.   To establis,c an appropriate legal framework, a comprehensive
Aviation Law is being :rafted with assistance from the International Civil
Aviation Organization (ICAO) under UNDP financing.
Haldives Airport Authority (MAA)
1.38      MAA is in charge of the airports of the country.  Although its name
suggests a high degree of autonomy, MAA is a department of the Government.
Its facilities, organization and operations are discussed in Chapter 2.
Maldives Air Services Limited (MAS) and Air Maldives (AM)
1.39      Both MAS and AM are state enterprises engaged in air, ground and
travel services. AM became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MAS upon the latter's
formation in January 1989. MAS is engaged in general sales agency, ground
handling activities, travel bureau operation and ownership of Air Maldives.
The main activity of MAS and also the most demanding is provision of ground
handling services together with MAA.
1.40      Air Haldives has been operating a small Shorts Skyvan aircraft
between Male and the regional airports. Traffic volumes in recent years have
been affected by poor availability of the aircraft and are on the order of
2,500 passengers per year. Two Dornier 228 aircraft have been procured to
replace the Skyvan and to increase frequency of operations including scheduled
calls at the newly opened regional airport. Both MAS and AM are profitable
enterprises.



- 10 -
F. Lending Experience
1.41      There has been no previous lending in transport in Maldives.  Three
projects--two in the fisheries sector and an education project for a total
lending of US$16.4 million--have been approved so far. The First Fisheries
Project (Credit 907-MAL) which closed in March 1983, after a one year delay,
was implemented satisfactorily and met its objectives. The reasons given in
the PPAR (No. 5587 of April 5, 1985) for the success of the project were
strong Government commitment to the project, simple and flexible project
design, frequent supervision with a strong technical content and effective
monitoring by the Project Coordinating Committee. The Second Fisheries
Project (Credit 1320-MAL) is nearing completion and is being successfully
implemented. Again an important reason for the success has been Government
commitment to the project's objectives. The Education Project (Credit 1981-
MAL) of January 1989 has made a good start and implementation is progressing
well.
1.42      Bank Group lending in the aviation subsector--principally during the
1970s--has been mainly confined to airport infrastructure. In aviation lend-
ing the Bank Group has aimed at: (i) wider adoption of economic considera-
tions in project selection and design; (ii) sound institutional development;
(iii) improved pricing policies aimed at charging users the full economic
cost of services provided. Notwithstanding construction delays and cost
overruns the projects achieved their physical targets. Also, economic rates
of return were satisfactory in part because of greater than expected revenues
from airport passenger services and/or higher traffic than forecast. The
development of more effective institutions for managing the airports suffered
delays under most projects biut the organizations made progress in terms of
efficient operations, staff training and commercial management. Institution
building objectives such as improved accounting procedures and pricing polic-
ies took longer than expected. Execution of the accounting studies and
implementation of recommendations were delayed due to difficulties in recruit-
ment of appropriate consultancy services, low priority given by borrowers to
these components and difficulties in training local staff. The lessons from,
the experience reviewed above have been taken into consideration in the desigh
of the project.



- 11 -
II.   MALDIVES AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
A. Facilities at Male Airport
Existing Facilities
2.1       While MAA is in charge of all airports of the country, Male airport
constitutes practically its entire activity. The existing airport 1/ was con-
structed as a complete unit between 1978 and 1981 to Boeing 707 type aircraft
standard. The facilities provided at that time included a new runway (partly
on reclaimed land); new passenger and air cargo terminals; meteorological
equipment; a tank farm for jet, diesel, avgas and automotive fuels; water
supply, sewage disposal and drainage systems; maintenance shops; a firelcrash/
rescue system (including a rescue launch); a powerhouse for all airport elec-
trical requirements together with the switchgear and distribution system; and
airfield lighting. A control tower with high and very high frequency radio
communications (HF and VHF) for ground and air control of aircraft were also
furnished. Air navigation facilities included a doppler very high frequency
omnirange (DVOR) with distance measuring equipment (DME) and direction finding
(DF) equipment. Assistance for approach and landing guidance was provided by
means of a visual approach slope indicator system, (known as a TVASIS), at
both runway ends. An administration building and an air traffic control
center were planned but have not yet been provided. A flight kitchen for air-
craft catering was added in 1989.
2.2       While some of the existing facilities are in good condition other
facilities are in urgent need of repair and upgrading. These deficiencies are
related in part to increasing use of heavy wide-body aircraft for which the
airport was not designed, and which are also the cause of more rapid deterior-
ation of the runway. Furthermore, following the unprecedented strong tidal
wave action of 1987, which caused considerable physical damage, the need has
arisen to provide for more effective protection of the shore of the airport
island.
2.3       There is subsidence under a section of the runway tha- must be
urgently repaired, and the runway is only marginally adequate for the heavy
wide-bodied aircraft that are now utilizing the airport. The terminal
building, which was appropriate for its original needs, is inadequate for the
passenger and baggage loads that are now being handled. This inadequacy is
compounded by the somewhat cumbersome passenger processing practices,
restrictions on night-time landing and take-off in Europe, and passengers for
outlying resorts having to arrive and depart by boat during daylight hours,
all contributing to bunching of arrivals and departures. This can result in
lengthy waiting periods for passengers under less than comfortable conditions.
The aircraft parking apron is inadequate for the number and size of aircraft
now being serviced. The capacity of the boat handling facilities is not
1/   Up until 1981 Male airport was only accessible to B737 type aircraft and
international travel was dependent upon connections via Colombo. Tourist
arrivals during the peak season were severely constrained by limited
capacity on the Male-Colombo route.



- 12 -
adequate. As all transfers to and from the airport must be by boat, improved
facilities for handling launches and dhonis (country craft) and their
passengers are required. The electronic equipment which usually has a fairly
short life expectancy in a hot, humid, marine environment (about ten years)
has been well maintained and no unusual maintenance requirements have been
encountered.
Masterplan
2.4       In the mid 19809, when wide-bodied aircraft were being introduced on
the Hale routes, and traffic started to increase faster than predicted,
Government recognized that the need for upgrading and expansion of the airport
facilities would arise sooner than anticipated and that expansion would need
to take place in the context of a long-term plan. Accordingly, a masterplan
was commissioned and presented to the Government in July 1986. This plan pro-
vides for extension of the runway and expansion of the terminal building and
aircraft parking areas in phased stages. The investments under the project
have been formulated in the context of this masterplan.
B. Male Airport Traffic
Past Traffic
2.5       Commercial air traffic of both passengers and cargo has been driven
by developments in the tourist industry. From only 514 passenger arrivals and
departures in 1970, growth has been very rapid, although at a decreasing rate.
With the opening of the new airport in 1981, direct flights from the originat-
ing centers, utilizing larger jet aircraft, became possible and allowed inter-
national visitor arrivals to continue to grow rapidly. Total arrivals and
departures reached about 360,000 (excluding transit passengers) in 1989 (Annex
2.1). Vacation tourists represent some 80 percent of total passengers with
other visitors and overseas travel by Maldivian nationals accounting for some
10 percent each.
2.6       Since Maldives has little in the way of natural resources, food,
durable consumer goods, equipment and materials have been to a large degree
imported. Although the bu:.k has been seaborne, freight brought in by air,
particularly perishables, is a significant part of the airport throughput
reaching more than 4,000 tons in 1989. Export by air is very small amounting
to less than 300 tons in 1989.
Future Traffic
2.7       The rate of growth of passenger traffic is expected to decrease
gradually in line with tourist developments (para. 1.27). Arrivals of over-
seas visitors are forecast to grow to close to 200,000 by 1995 in line with
developments in the tourist industry. Thereafter, growth is forecast at
3 percent per annum slowing down to 2 percent per annum by the year 2000.
Overseas travel by Maldivian nationals is expected to grow at about 4 percent
on account of population growth and growth in income. Total arrivals are
forecast at about 220,000 in 1995 and at 250,000 by the year 2000 (Annex 2.3).
For air cargo and air mail, the rate of growth is expected to be about 5 per-
cent. As for aircraft movements, it is anticipated that as the trend towards



- 13 -
larger aircraft continues, the number of flights will show rather slow growth
as the passenger loads will be larger. The rate of growth is expected to be
about 3 percent per annum initially, reducing to 2 percent by the year 2000.
Total movements are expected to grow from about 4,200 in 1989 to about 6,100
by 2005 (Annex 2.2).
C. Organization, Staffing and Training of MAA
Organization and Staffing
2.8       MAA is in charge of all airports of the country, with Male airport
being by far the most imp. ,ant facility. Its responsibilities include the
operation and maintenance of the runway and aircraft parking and manoeuvering
areas, the passenger, freight and aircraft handling facilities, the workshops,
communications and navigation aids, the breakwater and airport harbor facili-
ties and the water and sewerage installations. It is also responsible for
buildings and grounds, airport security, fire and rescue services as well as
garbage disposal.
2.9       Although its appelation as an authority suggests a high degree of
autonomy, MAA functions strictly as a department of the Government. It is
headed by a Director who is assisted by one deputy and seven assistant direc-
tors each in charge of a section (operational services, technical services,
ground services, projects, administration, financial, air transport and
general maintenance (Chart 1). Current manpower strength is about 400. In
respect of operations, staffing is generally adequate in terms of numbers and
qualifications for current levels of activity; however, there is a scarcity of
qualified and/or experienced staff in the accounting/financial areas.
Training
2.10      MAA fully recognizes the importance of staff training.  Its techni-
cal staff have undergone extensive training programs abroad. For example,
during the three-year period 1986 through 1988, about 167 of its staff atten-
ded various courses conducted by international, regional and national
agencies, in air traffic control, airport operations, maintenance, fire and
rescue, in the UK, Singapore, the Philippines, Thailand and other countries,
involving some 2,055 staff weeks. In addition, during this period, some 12 of
its staff attended long-term courses in administration, civil engineering,
maintenance engineering, for periods extending from two to five years. Addi-
tional training for MAA staff will also be provided under the IDA financed
'Education and Training Project" of 1989. In general, the emphasis in the
past has been on technical training, and management skills training such as
resource planning, budgeting, programming, accounting, and financial control
have received less attention. This will begin to be remedied under the proj-
ect by providing training as follows: (a) secondment as counterparts to the
consultants in charge of supervision of project implementation; and (b) on-
the-job and formal training of MAA's accounting and financial staff under the
technical assistance component of the project (para. 3.3 (i)).



- 14 -
D. Operations and Maintenance
2.11      While operations and maintenance are generally satisfactory, weak-
nesses are apparent in some areas. In particular, the acute shortage of
skilled personnel in the country makes it difficult for MAA to recruit staff
with special skills and to retain skilled personnel once they have been fully
trained. As a result, maintenance is not uniformly well done and force
account construction is difficult. Procurement of spare parts and supplies is
through the State Trading Organization and the process can be slow while
information on delivery dates can be hard to obtain. Aircraft ground handling
is satisfactory but existing passenger facilities are inadequate for the
passenger loads at peak times.
2.12      To promote the efficient interaction of the many parties involved in
airport operations a Facilitation Committee (FC) was established in 1989 which
includes representatives from MAA, DCA, MAS (representing the international
airlines operating into Male as their ground handling agent), the Department
of Immigration, Customs, Public Health, and the National Defence Force. An
Airline Operators' Committee (AOC), membership of which will be open to all
airlines operating into Male airport, is also in the process of being formed.
Once established, the AOC will be represented on the Facilitation Committee.
One of the priority tasks for these bodies should be the formulation and
implementation of measures to improve the processing of arriving and departing
passengers and the handling of aircraft. The Government is committed to use
its best efforts to make the FC and AOC effective tools for improvement in
airport operations.
E. Budgets
2.13      Being a Government agency, MAA is required to operate within the
financial framework imposed by the standard government budgeting system. The
annual budgets are of two kinds, the capital budget and the operating or
recurrent budget. The preparation of the annual capital budget starts at the
unit level with vetting reviews at the level of the organization heads and ,
finally at the finance ministry to ensure that requests are well justified anti
adequate funds will be available. Final approval of the annual capital and
operating budget is given by the National Parliament by November/December of
the preceding year.
2.14      In the case of capital projects involving multi-year expenditures,
the total amount is allocated in the first yearr's budget, and MAA has to
approach the Audit Office annually to reinstate the unspent balance in each
subsequent year. Capital expenditures through external financing are not
included in the above tudgeting process. The projects department of MAA is
responsible for administering the contracts, monitoring the expenditures and
recording the assets in MhA's Fixed Assets Register.2/ This is carried out in
conjunction with the necessary approvals from the President's Office while
loan processing and debt servicing is handled by the Ministries of Foreign
Affairs and Finance respectively.
21   MAA maintains a fixed assets register in which the quantities of the
items are entered but not necessarily the values. Control of spare parts
is maintained through bin cards showing quantities and reordering levels.



- 1S -
F. Accounting Practices
2.15      MAA's present accounting practices provide for record-keeping under
the system of cash-based accounting to meet the requirements of Government
budget procedures. All of MAA's revenues are credited to the general budget
and the expenditures are drawn from amounts sanctioned under the budget.
MAA's financial operations are merged with the general revenue and expenditure
accounts of the Government and it has no cash flow control. For example, the
Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) carries out the transactions and accounting
of all borrowings related to MAA's capital expenditures. However, within the
limits imposed by the above requirements, MAA has endeavored to maintain, on a
memorandum basis, details of the airport's revenues by tariff categories and
of the expenditures by types and functions. Incomplete as they are, and
lacking full accounting of fixed assets values and related depreciation, and
of the inventories, these attempts to use simple analytical methods should be
encouraged and formalized. At present no accounting or statistical reports
are prepared for circulation, except a budget status report which is sent
monthly to the Auditor General's Office.
2.16      Considerable benefits can be obtained from improving MAA's account-
ing, financial, and management information systems. Such benefits include:
(i) informed decision making on the part of MAA management; (ii) better under-
standing on the part of the Government of MAA's operational and financial per-
formance; and (iii) paving the way towards Government's long-term aim of
vesting in MAA some degree of autonomy as a self-financing and self-accounting
organization. Specific measures need be taken towards the introduction of an
accrual and activity based accounting system in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles to be developed and structured for MAA to meet
its particular needs. These include: (i) engagement of an individual consul-
tant experienced in modern airport accounting methods, to conceptualize,
develop, design and implement the new accounting, financial, and management
information systems and the training involved in accordance with the terms of
reference (TOR) detailed in Annex 2.5; (ii) appointment of a qualified/
experienced management accountant to act as counterpart to the consultant in
implementing the new systems in MAA; and (iii) training of staff in all
aspects of accounting and financial skills. The key steps to achieve the
above are outlined in Annex 2.4.
2.17      During negotiations it was agreed that MAA shall:  (i) engage by
January 1, 1991, the services of a consultant to design, develop and recommend
for implementation within MAA of a double-entry accrual and activity based
accounting system in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
and the TOR detailed in Annex 2.5; (ii) utilize the services of a qualified/
experienced Management Accountant provided in the context of the Project
Implementation Unit (para. 3.14) to act as the consultant's counterpart during
the period of the consultancy assignment and to be responsible for the
development and implementation of the new accounting system as well as the
subsequent management of it; and (iii) take all steps, including the important
task of selecting, upgrading and training its accounting and financial staff
in order to be able to implement by January 1, 1993 the new accounting, finan-
cial, and management information systems based on the recommendations of the
consultant in accordance with the TOR as provided in item (i) above.



- 16 -
2.18      It should be possible to extract from the new accounting system,
financial statements reflecting, on a true and fair basis, the financial con-
dition of MAA and the results of its operations and cash flows. Furthermore,
the above measures should eventually enable MAA to develop into a self-
financing and self-accounting organization capable of effectively managing its
assets and cash flow, and formulating rational pricing policies based on cost
recovery and satisfactory returns on investments at the airport. MAA should
then also be in a position to circulate regular management information reports
to enable its management to make well informed decisions.
G. Audit
2.19      MAA is subject to auditing by the Government's Auditor General.  The
Auditor General of Maldives, who reports to the President, is responsible for
auditing the accounts of the various Ministries, government agencies,
government-owned corporations/companies, involving some 110 separate audits.
The Auditor General's Office has no qualified accountant/auditor among its
staff, although one is currently under training in Australia. Because of the
absence of trained or qualified staff and the bureaucratic nature of the
audit, work is behind schedule and there is a backlog of two years of audit
work to be caught up with.
2.20      To cope with the lack of trained accounting personnel in the
country, the majority of corporations, companies and banks in Male resort to
the practice of employing one of the three firms of Chartered Accountants
practicing in Male to assist them in preparing their annual accounts. For
example, Maldives Air Services Limited and Air Maldives Limited, have
employed a firm of chartered accountants to act as their internal auditors on
a continuing basis so that their annual accounts can be prepared and presented
soon after year end, thereby facilitating the audit by the Auditor General.
2.21      The above practice of employing private firms of chartered
accountants as interna. auditors provides an effective and acceptable solution
to the problems experienced by the Auditor General's Office.  A similar        I
arrangement, which draws upon the services of one of these firms of Chartered'
Accountants for auditing MAA's accounts, would be acceptable for purposes of
meeting IDA's auditing requirements. During negotiations it was agreed that
MAA shall prepare and submit to IDA, starting its fiscal year 1993, its annual
financial statements reflecting a true and fair view of (i) the financial
position at each year end (balance sheet); (ii) the annual operating results
(revenues, operating expenses and non-operating items); and (iii) cash flows
(sources and application of funds) audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
H. Insurance
2.22      Male airport and its operations are well protected through insurance
provided by Lloyds of London, covering damages as well as consequential
losses. The latter includes coverage of losses in tourism income caused by
disruptions of air traffic as a result of incapacitation of the airport.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
3.1       To enable the airport to meet future traffic growth in accordance
with a rational long-term development scheme, a master plar. for future airport
upgrading and expansion was completed in July 1986 (para. 2.4). This plan
provided the basis for the preparation of a first package of investments aimed
at correcting critical deficiencies hampering efficient and safe operations of
several facilities. If these facilities were to be left unimproved, operating
conditions for large aircraft would eventually become unacceptable which in
turn would threaten the viability of the tourism industry. BecauF- the scale
of the required investments exceeded the lending envelope of a single finan-
cier, GOM sought cofinancing from several sources. In 1987 a financing plan
was worked out based on contributions from the Kuwait Fund, the OPEC Fund and
other cofinanciers. This financing plan, however, did not materialize and
processing of the project was seriously delayed. This ,.ed the Government in
December 1988 to request IDA to participate in financing the project. An
identification/preparation mission visited Maldives in April 1989, followed by
a cofinanciers meeting/ preappraisal mission in November 1989. The project
was appraised in February 1990.
B. Project Objectives and Rationale frr IDA Inv.'vement
3.2       The project aims at maintaining the viability and growth potential
of tourism, the key sector of the economy, through improvements at Male air-
port upon which the tourist industry is critically dependent. In physical
terms, the objectives are to: (i) meet immediate and urgent airport operating
requirements; and (ii) bring the airport's facilities in line with traffic
levels expected to be generated by the tourist industry in the near to medium
term. IDA participation in the project is aimed at ensuring that: (i) the
implementation of urgently needed investments is not delayed any further;
(ii) the project scope is limited to a program of well-just.ified investments;
and (iii) MAA's institutional capacity is further improved.
C. Project Description
3.3       The project provides for rehabilitation/upgrading investments and
institutional strengthening as follows:
(a) Runway. The existing 2,840 m runway (with a 300 m stopway) will be
rehabilitated and extended to some 3,200 m, (including the turning
pads), through the following works:
(i) Stabilization, through injection of a cement-sand slurry, of a
400-500 m section in the central part of the runway where sub-
sidence has occurred with formation of severe depressions;
(ii) Stabilization, through injection of a cement-sand slurry, of a
section at the northern end of the runway never built to full
strength, which is also showing depressions. Stabilization
rather thai reconstruction was selected because of the lower
cost and the need to keep the airport operational for long-
range aircr&ft. Owing to the original temporary design of this



- 18 _
section, the treatment would have a life on the order of ten
years;
(iii) Reconstruction/rehabilitation to full operatio',al use of a
170 m section of the original runway to the south of the
existing runway, which is now used as a stopway, together with
the construction of a taxiway to the aircraft parking apron in
asphaltic cement concrete;
(iv) Leveling course in asphaltic concrete over the stabilized
areas, and an overlay in asphaltic concrete of varying thick-
ness, 30 m wide along the central axis of the runway. The
overlay is designed in part to improve the existing ten-year-
old surface and in part to provide the additional strength
required for B747 type aircraft; and
(v) Rebuilding of the shoulders on either side of the runway and at
the ends of the turning pads to prevent erosion and damage to
runway lights due to jet blast during take-off.
(b) Aircraft Turning Pads. Construction of standard portland cement
concrete turning pads at each end of the runway, designed to allow a
reasonable turning radius for B747-type aircraft. Portland cement
concrete is indicated because the scrubbing action of aircraft
undercarriages in tight turns is very destructive on asphaltic
surfaces.
(c) Aircraft Parking Apron. Works include;
(i) A 160x75 m extension to the south of the existing 750x75 m air-
craft parking apron. The extension will be built of portland
cement concrete and the taxiway of asphaltic concrete. This
extension will help improve passenger handling by relieving
aircraft congestion; and
(ii) Concrete drains to intercept rainwater run-off from the apron
extension and fuel separators to remove fuel and hydraulic
fluids from the runoff before discharge to the sea, in order to
protect the potable groundwater supply. Covers on existing
drains will be repaired where damage has occurred on the exist-
ing apron.
(d) Shore Protection. Installation of heavy-duty steel sheet piles at
critical stretches on the perimeter of the airport island and, in
particular, at the south end of the runway, at the location of the
Instrument Landing System glide path installation, at the north end
of the runway and around the airport boat harbor complex.l/ These
works (which have a design life of 20-30 years) are intended to
reinforce the existing seawall and protect the airport island from
1/   Other minor works to expand and upgrade the airport boat harbor complex
will be carried out by GOM outside oZ the project.



- 19 -
heavy wave action. They will be financed by the Kuwait Fund and
will start in the second half of 1990.
(e) Terminal Complex. Works includes
(i) Extension and modification of the passenger-handling facilities
to provide: (a) additional shelter from sun and rain for
departing passengers while awaiting the first security check;
(b) increased space in the check-in area; (c) improved restau-
rant facilities, sanitation and other amenities; (d) more space
for the final security check atid for marshalling departing pas-
sengers in the departing area; and (e) increased space to
improve passenger flow in the arrival area. Final details of
the proposed modifications are under review;
(ii) Modifications and improvements to the potable water supply to
meet the increasing demand and including: (a) renovation of
the piping and pumping system of the freshwater well, which
depends on rainwater replenishment; (b) desalination equipment
to treat the brackish water that may be encountered from time
to time; (c) renovation of the facilities for harvesting and
storing of rainwater from the terminal building roof to augment
the groundwater supply; and (d) renovation of the chlorination
system;
(iii) Replacement of the domestic sewage system by a larger and more
appropriate installation consisting of a three-chamber concrete
septic tank, specially constructed to prevent buoyancy due to
the high water table, together with all fittings for a gravity
system. The septic tank is sized for a minimum two-day reten-
tion period under design load conditions;
(iv) Provision of a new installation to treat aircraft sewage before
discharging into the sea.
(f)  Aids to Navigation.
(i)  Installation of an instrument landing system (ILS), comprising
a localizer, glide path, co-located distance-mepsuring equip-
ment (DME) and approach lighting to serve runway 36. As it is
impractical to install the normal outer and middle markers and
a standard-approach lighting system, a DME will be substituted
to provide distance to threshold guidance with an abbreviated
simple-approach light system involving displacing the landing
threshold. Thus, the landing threshold under instrument condi-
tions will be in the same location as the existing runway 36
threshold; and
(4i) Installation of airfield lighting, including: (a) edge light-
ing for the new turning pads and tli parking apron extension;
(b) edge lighting for the 170 m recon4tructed section of the
original runway and the new taxiway; (c) floodlighting of the
apron; and (d) the approach lighting systems referred to under
(i) above and replacement of all surface markings.



- 20 -
(g) Power Supply. The procurement and installation of two diesel
generator sets of about 500 kW each, with appropriate switchgear and
synchronization to meet increasing operational requirements and
standardized with the existing equipment for operational and main-
tenance cost effectiveness.
(h) Airport Safety. Procurement of a large aircraft fire-fighting
vehicle to augment existing equipment and to help meet, in part, the
level of fire-fighting capacity required of international airports
of this size.
(i) Institutional Strengthening
ti) Consultancy services for up to 9 staff-months to upgrade the
accounting, financial, and management information systems of
MA;
(ii) Services of a management accountant for about 30 staff-months
to be in charge of project accounts, coordination of progress
reports, and implementation of the program for upgrading of
MAA's accounting system;
(iii) Training programs for MAA accounts staff for a total of 60
months; and
(iv) Two personal/mini-computers and accounting systems software.
D. Environmental Aspects
3.4       The project does not involve major environmental issues as it con-
sists of rehabilitation/improvement of existing facilities. The minor issues
arising from both airport operation and the construction activities during
project implementation concern the protection of the limited body of sweet
water on the airport island and the safeguarding of neighboring coral reefs.
The island on which the airport is located has been formed by joining three
small coral islands of Male Atoll through land reclamation. The protection of
the rich and unspoiled ecosystem around the airport island is therefore an
important objective of the project.
3.5       The potential environmental issues relating to the project and air-
port operations are being addressed through the design solutions providing for
good sanitation practices; the prevention of hydrocarbon contamination (from
fuel and oil spills from aircraft) of the groundwater and the coral reef; and,
the pLxtection of coral stone. In particular: (i) terminal building and air-
craft sewage will be treated appropriately; (ii) water drained from the air-
craft parking areas will pass through fuel separators; (iii) for shore protec-
tion, metal sheet piling will be used instead of coral stone as was past prac-
tice; and (iv) coral sand dredged from the existing airport harbor (to permit
access by larger passenger craft) will be used for some minor reclamation
works (contained by metal sheet piling) needed for the ILS installation, again
avoiding any loss of coral stone. With regard to the metal sheet piling
alternative for the shore protection works, even though the initial investment
cost of sheet piling is several times higher than coral stone construction,



- 21 -
hardly any maintenance costs are involved and life expectancy is much longer.
Over time, the costs of the two alternatives were found to be about equal,
with the added advantage for the sheet piling alternative being that it helps
to preserve the coral reef environment.
3.6       Potential construction stage impacts or hazards wlll be addressed
through inclusion in the contract documents for the physical works of provi-
sions for environmentally sound practices during construction activities and
in handling of materials. These would cover in particular, measures to avoid
contamination of the groundwater by hydrocarbon materials, and pollution of
the air by the asphalt plant. Compliance with these provisions will be care-
fully monitored as part of the project implementation arrangements which
include a project implementation unit to be established under the project to
be assisted by the supervision consultant (para. 3.14). Recent initiatives by
the Government also provide for an institutional and policy framework which is
generally conducive to environmentally sound practices (para. 1.22).
E. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
Cost Estimates
3.7       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$25.95 million with a foreign cost component of US$25.0 million
(Table 3.1). As contractors and suppliers of materials and equipment for
investment projects are exempt from import duties and taxes in Maldives, the
costs are net of taxes. Base costs which are in February 1990 prices were
developed by the consultant who prepared the detailed engineering designs, and
these were reviewed by the appraisal mission. For civil works, the costs are
based on the consultant's analysis of similar construction works in other
parts of the world. For equipment, costs are based on current prices for
similar units.
3.8       As pract;.cally all of the labor employed by the civil works contrac-
tor would be fore.',r and all equipment and materials would be imported,
foreign costs amount to 97 percent of total costs. Physical contingencies of
10 percent have been added to the cost of civil works. Price contingencies
have been estimated at 5.4 percent for 1990 and 4.3 percent for 1991 and
thereafter for civil works, equipment and construction supervision. Total
contingencies amount to US$3.4 million (physical contingencies US$1.9 million
and price contingencies US$1.5 million).



- 22 -
Table 8.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local   Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign   Totol        Foroe
--- Rf (000)           -       ------- US (000) ----                    I o  I
Works
Water System                 48S      2,782    8,220          68         297       860          85
Repair Drain Covora            37        782       819         4           8S       89           96
Sewerago                       66      2,742     2,797         6          298      804           98
Aircraft Sewerage              18      1,182     1,160          2         128      126          OS
Shoulders                      28      4,672     4,600          8        497       500           99
Apron Drains                  46       2,694     2,640          6         282      287           98
Terminal Complex              276     14,444    14,720        80        1,570    1,6oo           98
Shore Protection            4,122     87,089   41,161        448        4,026    4,474           90
Soil Stsbilllztion (1)         92      7,121     7,218         10         774      784           99
Soil Stabilization (iT)        56      5,486     6,520         6          694      600           99
Runway Cverlay                552    27,784    28,886         60        8,020    8,080           9S
Runway Rehabilitation         489     19,026   20,296         61        2,166    2,208           98
Apron A Turning Pods          86s     a4,794    86,182        40        8,782    8,822           99
Airfield Lighting              74      8,882     8,968         8         422       430           98
Subtotal                6.679    164.910   171.589        726       17.926   18.eS1           96
Equiment
ILS/DVE                        0     12,880    12,880          0       1,400    1,400           100
Fire fighting vehiclo          0      4,416     4,416          0         480      480           10C
Generators                      0      8,220    3,220          0          850      850          100
Subtotal                    0     20.516   20.516           0       2,280    2.290           100
Consulting Services
Eng. Design                    0       5,520    6,620          0         600      e60           100
Supervision                   552      7,130    7,682         60          776      885           93
Tech. Assistanco and
Training                     0       2,800     2,800         0          260      260          100
Subtotal                   552     14.9S0   1.602         so        1,626    1.686
Total Base Costs         7.281    200,76   207.607       786      21,780  22.666             97
Contingencies-Physical        598    16,661    17,259         65        1,811    1,876           97
Price           428     18,886    13,874        65        1,455    1,508           97
Subtotal                 1.086    80,047    31.188         118       8.286    8.884           97
Total Project Cos /a   8.817    280.423   288.740         904      25.046   25.960            97
/a Works and equipment are exampt from Import duties and taxes.
Financing Plan
3.9         External sources will finance US$21.0 million (IDA US$7.5 million,
Kuwait Fund US$8.5 million, OPEC Fund US$2.0 million, Islamic Development Bank
US$3.0 million) or 81 percent of total project costs2/. Cofinancing will be
on a parallel basis. Government's share of US$4.95 million (Table 3.2)
includes USS4.'u million of foreign costs. Even though Government's contribu-
2/Lending terms of the cofinanciers are shown in Annex 5.3.



- 23 -
tion will be spread over three years (1990: US$0.8 million; 1991:
US$2.29 million; 1992: US$1.86 million), it involves a major financial effort
on its part. At negotiations, GOM gave assurances that it will make adequate
overall budgetary provisions covering the entire implementation period and any
unforseen adverse cost development. To assist in the preparation of adequate
forward budgets, and help ensure that project implementation and project costs
will not be adversely affected as a result of delays in the availability of
GOM financing, MAA would every year, early on in the budget preparation cycle,
update the expected future annual budgetary contributions based on the most
recent cost estimates for each of the components.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
2 of
Local       Foreign       Total        Total
Government                        0.79          4.16         4.95          19
IDA                               0.11          7.39         7.50          29
Kuwait Fund                        -            8.50         8.50          33
OPEC Fund                          -            2.00         2.00         7.5
Islamic Development Bank          -             3.00         3.00        11.5
Total                          0.90         25.05        25.95        100
3.10      During a cofinanciers meeting in November 1989, contract packages
and the items to be financed by each of the financiers were agreed upon (Annex
3.1). The IDA Credit will finances (i) the runway reconstruction/rehabilita-
tion and runway overlay, including the works component of the airfield
lighting along the runway; (ii) the fire fighting vehicle; (iii) the
generators; and (iv) the technical assistance and training for institutional
strengthening in accounting at MAA.
3.11      The loans from the other financiers have already been approved and
the Kuwait Fund and OPEC loans are effective. At negotiations it was agreed
that the loan from the IDB will have been declared effective by December 31,
1990, or that GOM establishes that adequate funds for completion of the
project are available from other sources.
F. Procurement
IDA-Financed Elements
3.12      The runway works (estimated at US$6.4 million including contingen-
cies) will be carried out by contract following international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits. The fire fighting vehicle (estimated at US$0.48 million) will be
procured following Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures on the basis
of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from at least three qualified
suppliers, in view of the limited number of potential suppliers for such



- 24 -
equipment. The generators (estimated to cost US$0.35 million) will be
procured by direct purchase for reasons of standardization of equipment and
because of the need for the generators to be installed before the start of the
civil works. Small items of data processing equipment for HAA (estimated to
cost US$15,000) will be procured through local shopping, under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers of such equipment in the Haldives, for reasons of after-sales
service. Prior review by the Association of bidding documents and proposed
contract awards will be required for all contracts exceeding US$40,000.
Technical assistance consultants will be hired in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Group Borrowers.
Elements Financed by Cofinanciers and GOM
3.13      The remaining elements will be financed by GOM and the other
cofinanciers as detailed in Annex 3.1 according to their respective
procurement procedures. Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Project element              IGB                Other /a           Total cost
Civil works                  6.40               15.49                  21.89
(6.40)              -                      (6.40)
Equipment                                        2.23                   2.23
(0.83)                 (0.83)
Consultants and
Training                                       1.83                   1.83
-                 (0.27)                  (0.27)
Total                   6.40              19.55                   25.95
(6.40)             (1.10)                  (7.50)
la   Includes LIB, direct purchase and consultant selection procedures, as
well as items financed by GOM and the cofinanciers in accordance with
their respective procurement procedures.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Credit.
G. Implementation
3.14      MAA will be the implementing agency for all project components.  GOM
is making arrangements to establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within
MAA by mid-June 1990, headed by a Project Director and assisted by an engineer
(to be provided by ICAO/UNDP), a procurement officer and a management
accountant. At negotiations, it was agreed that if for some reason this



- 25 -
cannot be achieved as scheduled, establishment of the PIU and appointment of
the Project Director and the procurement officer will be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Credit. MAA will employ the consultant who prepared the
detailed engineering (to be financed by the Kuwait Fund) to assist the PIU in
contract management and works supervision. This arrangement is satisfactory.
The PIU will submit withdrawal applications to the Association, maintain proj-
ect accounts, arrange for the annual audit of the project accounts, fulfill
the Association's reporting requirements and liaise with the various cofinan-
ciers and coordinate their financing. A Project Implementation Committee com-
prising senior officials from MAA, DCA, Air Maldives, the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, the Ministry of Planning and the Environment, and the Ministry of
Tourism has already been established to provide an overall umbrella for
project implementation and guidance as needed. The project would be imple-
mented over a period of about three years. starting by mid-1990 with the ILS
and the shore protection works.  The prequalification process for the two
major civil works contracts (runway works and apron extension) was initiated
in March 1990. Bidding documents for all items are either completed or under
preparation. All project components are expected to be completed by mid-1993.
IDA's supervision plan for the project, which was discussed with MAA during
negotiations, is shown in Annex 3.2.
H. Disbursements
3.15      Contractors and suppliers of materials and equipment for investment
projects are exempt from duties and taxes in the Maldives and local costs of
the IDA financed components are negligible. Disbursements from the Credit
will be made on the following basis:
(a) Civil Works: 100 percent of the total expenditures;
(b) Equipment: 100 percent of foreign expenditures; and
(c) Consulting services and training: 100 percent of total expendi-
tures.
A disbursement profile has not yet been developed for the Maldives. The con-
tract for runway works is expected to be completed by mid-1992; the generators
are expected to be procured by end-1990, while the fire tender would be pro-
cured during 1991. The technical assistance and training activities will con-
tinue until mid-1993 when the Credit is expected to be fully disbursed. The
estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3.3. The closing date of
the Credit will be December 31, 1993.
3.16      Under the Credit a special account with an authorized allocation of
US$0.8 million to finance project expenditures covering a four-month period
will be established and maintained in US dollars at a bank in the Maldives
acceptable to IDA. Applications for replenishment of the special account
would be made monthly or whenever the account is drawn down to about 50
percent of the initial deposit. Disbursement for contracts over US$40,000
will be made against full documentation of expenditures while for expenditures
related to training and contracts for goods and services each less than
US$40,000 equivalent, reimbursement would be made against Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). To familiarize themselves with SOE procedures, PIU staff
will maintain close liaison with relevant staff in charge of the IDA-financed
Fisheries and Education Projects currently under implementation.



- 26 -
I. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.17      HAA, through its PIU, will maintain starting 1990, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, separate accounts in sufficient detail
covering expenditures in respect of the various elements of the project and
reflecting the contribution from the cofinanciers and GOM. MAA will also
submit to IDA a brief monthly update on implementation and quarterly progress
reports in a format agreed with IDA, giving details on the progress of imple-
mentation of the various components (Annex 3.4). The management accountant
within the PIU (para. 3.14) will be in charge of the project accounts. MAA
will have the project accounts and the special account (para. 3.16) audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and will submit annually to IDA such
audited accounts, within nine months of the end of each GOM fiscal year. Not
later than six months after the Credit closing date, MAA will prepare a
completion report providing an analysis of key issues related to the project
and its assessment of project implementation and lessons learned. These
requirements were agreed at negotiations.



- 27 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
Benefits
4.1       The key concept for evaluating the project from the point of view of
the national economy is the value added by the tourist industry, defined as
total tourist expenditures in the country minus the cost of imported or
locally produ.ced inputs. This value added is what the country stands to loose
if the fortunes of the industry were to decline. As adequate airport facili-
ties are critical for the viability and gLowth of the industry the project
will help sustain the value added generated by tourism.
4.2       At present, airport facilities are already substandard in several
important areas and if the project were not undertaken, the operating condi-
tions and the level of service provided to aircraft and passengers will con-
tinue to deteriorate. In particular, without the project it will not be pos-
sible to continue to operate direct flights of wide-body aircraft into Male.
As a result, the direct cost of bringing tourists to Maldives would increase
while the attractiveness of the overall tourist package would decrease owing
to severely strained airport conditions. Because of the competitiveness and
price sensitivity of the tourist industry worldwide, the escalating air fares
and deteriorating airport services would lead to a rapid decline in the flow
of tourist arrivals in Maldives, in the process reducing considerably govern-
ment revenues and threatening the viability of the tourist industry which is
crit3cally dependent upon adequate resort occupancy levels. Thus, to avoid a
decline in the flow of tourists and safeguard the continued viability of the
industry in the face of deteriorating airport conditions, would require that
the price of the domestic component of the Maldives holiday package be
reduced. By the same token, however, the scope for value added and hence
government revenues would be reduced. With the project on the other hand, the
value added and government revenues generated by tourism would continue to
grow. The benefits of the project, therefore, consist of the value added
which would be foregone without the project.
Beneficiaries
4.3       Even though the tourist resorts are heavily concentrated on Male
Atoll and two other neighboring Atolls the benefits of a viable and prosperous
tourist industry and hence of the project are spread widely among the popula-
tion of the country and this for two main reasons. First, the revenues
collected by the government from tourism are applied towards the general
development effort of the nation, i.e. for social services, education and
infrastructure improvements. Second, the Maldivian nationals employed in the
tourist industry remit a large proportion of their income (estimated at some
US$5.0 million in 1989) to their families in their islands of origin thereby
helping to ensure that the population at large benefits from tourism.



- 28 -
B. Rate of Return Calculation
Government Revenues from Tourism
4.4       Analysis of the composition of the value added by the tourist sector
reveals that after deducting from total tourist expenditures in the country
the cost of imported and locally produced inputs, the main remaining items
ares (i) direct and indirect government taxes; (ii) emoluments of resort per-
sonnel; and (iii) profits of the resorts. Items (i) and (ii) can be quanti-
fied relatively easily, while item (iii) profits, is more difficult to esti-
mate. However, for purposes of evaluating the value added with and without
the project, the analysis can focus on the outlook for direct and indirect
government revenues because these are the most vulnerable. In the long-term
it is of a higher priority to sustain adequate levels of tourist activity and
the profitability of the Lidustry, than to maintain current levels of govern-
ment revenue. Profits, have played an essential role ir the growth of the
industry as they have largely been reinvested in resort upgrading. As the
industry is currently engaged on an important upgrading program, reinvestment
of profits will continue in the short to medium term. Under these circum-
stances, any adverse impact on the competitiveness of the industry arising
from deteriorating conditions at the airport will need to be absorbed
primarily through a reduction in the tax burden on the industry.
4.5       The level of government revenues from tourism with and without the
project, therefore, captures the main quantifiable benefits of the project.l/
Total net government revenues were estimated at US$19.4 million in 1989
(Annex 1.4). This estimate takes into account recurrent government expendi-
tures in the tourism sector and recurrent revenues and expenditures of the
airport. No other capital outlays are considered as the Government does not
make capital investments in the tourism sector. In the absence of any con-
straints to traffic growth on account of unsatisfactory conditions at the air-
port this net revenue would grow at the same rate as tourist arrivals to
US$24.3 million by 1995 and US$27.9 million and US$30.8 million by the year
2000 and 2005 respectively. It is this annual flow of revenues that the proj-
ect aims to safeguard.
Base Case (Without the Project)
4.6       Under the base case it has been assumed that no investments are made
and that expenditures are limited to essential maintenance to keep existing
facilities operational to the extent possible. With this level of expendi-
tures, conditions at the airport will deteriorate rapidly and wide-body air-
craft would have to be withdrawn from service within the near future, followed
by withdrawal of B707/DC8 type aircraft a few years later. Replacement of
modern large aircraft with smaller, less efficient aircraft will cause the
transport component in the total cost of the Maldives holiday package to
increase by US$50-l00. In addition, tourists would incur other incremental
direct and indirect costs on account of longer total travel time and transfer
expenses at connecting airports. To maintain the flow of tourists and the
1/   The small technical assistance component (US$0.3 million) which is
expected to have a beneficial impact in the long term on the airport's
management has not been included in the ERR calculation.



- 29 -
viability of the tourist industry, these higher costs will need to be compen-
sated by corresponding reductions in the Maldivian cost component of the
holiday package. As suggested above (para. 4.4) in view of the financial
situation of the industry, this will need to be achieved primarily through a
reduction in the tax burden on the industry causing government revenues to
diminish rapidly.
4.7       Furthermore, it is highly likely that even if alternative routings
are technically possible to substitute for the loss of the direct connections
with wide body or B707 type aircraft, other limitations would hamper the
ability to bring in current flows of tourists through transfer points. Capa-
city limitations on feeder routes to and from regional transfer points
severely constrained the growth of the tourist industry in the 1970s when
total arrivals were much lower than at pr-aent. Government revenues would
therefore also suffer from a reduction in the number of tourist arrivals in
addition to the loss on account of lower tax rates. It is estimated that
under the maintenance only scenario, Government revenues would decline from
the current level of US$19.4 million to US$14.0 million by 1995 and to US$3.0
million by the year 2000 reducing further to US$1.0 million thereafter.  The
facilities would be costly to maintain with maintenance costs running at
US$1.1 million per annum (Annex 4.1).
ERR of the Project
4.8       With the project, the airport should not pose a constraint to the
further growth of tourist arrivals and conditions at the airport would be more
in line with the overall improved standards which the tourist industry is
aiming to achieve. Except for some temporary limitations to growth in govern-
ment revenues during the next three years on account of the congested condi-
tions which will continue to prevail at the terminal, government revenues
would grow at the same rate as total tourist arrivals. Starting form the cur-
rent level of US$19.4 million, by the year 1995, total revenues would amount
to US$23.8 million, while by 2000 and 2005 revenues would be US$27.9 million
and US$30.8 million respectively. The total investment amounts to US$23.6
million including physical contingencies and supervision.  Maintenance cost
would amount to US$0.4 million per annum initially increasing to US$0.7
million, and major replacement investments would have to be programmed after
ten years. Taking an evaluation period of 20 years, compared to the without
the project case (maintenance only), the investment yields an ERR of 36 per-
cent.
Alternative Levels of Investment
4.9       As part of the economic evaluation of the project three alterna-
tives, which correspond to incremental levels of invest-ent, have been
compared with the base case under which expenditures are limited to essential
maintenance to keep existing facilities operational. These alteLnatives are:
(i) investments are limited to rehabilitation of existing facilities to
B707/DC8 type aircraft standard; (ii) in addition to (i) above, investments
aim at upgrading of essential facilities to permit continued operation of
B747 aircraft; and (iii) in addition to (ii) above, investments include
extension of the terminal complex to permit the airport to cope with traffic
growth (the project). The evaluations, which show that these levels of
investment have ERR's ranging between 33 and 36 percent (Annex 4.3), indicate



- 30 -
that the incremental levels of investment are well justified and that the
project as conceived yields the highest return. They also indicate that in
case of unforeseen adverse developments the extension of the terminal complex
could be delayed a few years without affecting the ERR of the investments
undertaken as part of alternative (ii).
Sensitivity
4.10      An analysis was carried out to test the sensitivity of the ERR to
adverse developments in respect of construction costs and net Government
revenues from tourism. Under a scenario combining both higher costs and lower
benefits the project remains well justified. With an increase in costs of 30
percent and a reduction in benefits of 20 percent (which would arise, for
example, if there were no growth in tourist arrivals for at least five years,
or if the bed tax were reduced by more than 50 percent from US$6.0 to US$2.5),
the ERR of the project is 27 percent (compared to 36 percent in the base
case). In view of the fact that the design life of some investments is 10
years, the ERR was also calculated on the basis of an evaluation period of 10
years. Without counting any residual value for investments having a longer
design life than 10 years, the ERR is 33 percent which is only marginally
different from the case with a 20 year evaluation period. The sensitivity of
the ERR to variations in costs and benefits was also examined for the case of
the 10 year evaluation period. If under a 10 year evaluation period costs
would be 30 per cent higher and benefits 20 percent lower the ERR would be 23
percent.
C. Risks
4.11      Although cost estimates are based on detailed engineering designs,
some uncertainty remains regarding the outcome of the bidding proces for the
works component given the general unfamiliarity of the construction industry
with working conditions in the Haldives. This risk will be addressed by:
(i) ensuring that all prospective bidders are fully familiar with the situa-
tion in the Maldives early on in the bidding process; and (ii) using contract
documents which are recognized in the industry as balanced and fair.



- 31 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Existing Situation
MAA's Operating Results
5.1       Despite the incomplete nature of the government budget-oriented and
cash-based accounting pra(:tices presently followed in MAA, it has been
possible to prepare a surmary of HAA's operating results on a cash working
basis (see Table 5.1 below). Since operations at Male Airport constitute
practically the entire activity at MAA, the figures can be said to reflect
basically the operating results of Male Airport. On the fzce of it the
results appear positive.
Table 5.1: INCOME STATEMENT SUMMARY
(Rf million)
La
1986     1987     1988      1989/b
Operating Revenues
Landing                                       4.9      6.6       5.9      6.6
Aircraft handling                             7.8      5.8       8.6     10.2
Pax service                                   6.0      8.9      10.3     10.7
Fuel commission                               3.0      9.6      12.7     16.0
Airport concessions and rents                 1.5      1.6       2.2      4.7
Miscellaneous                                 0.6      1.3       1.3      1.8
Total revenues                           23.8      33.8     41.0      50.0
Operating Expenses /c
Personnel costs                               4.2      5.0       5.7      5.1
Materials and supplies                        4.7      5.9       7.8      7.7
Purchased services and energy                 1.8      1.9       2.0      4.5
General and admin.                            3.6      3.7       5.0      4.4
Total Working Erpenses                   14.3      16.5     20.5      21.7
Net Working Income                              9.5     17.3      20.5     28.3
/a Unaudited.
lb Preliminary.
/c  Excluding depreciation and indirect expense since under MAA's Government-
oriented accounting practices, these items are considered outside the
scope of the budget.
However, the above results do not reflect the complete picture. There are
factors like depreciation and interest which are not currently accounted for.
In this regard, the administration and servicing of borrowings for past



- 32 -
airport investments are handled entirely by the Ministry of Finance and the
Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA). If a cash flow computation is made on a
proforma basis, the situation is less favorable. However, also in the case
the picture is incomplete in the sense that the airport has been largely
developed to current size to serve the tourism t=dustry which gLnerates for
the Government substantial revenues including a bed tax presently of the order
of $9.0 million or some Rf83.0 million at current exchange rate. With hardly
any direct expenditure by the government against this income, an appropriate
share of it could be considered as attributable to airport operations to cover
any possible deficits resulting from a full accounting of all airport related
costs. This is shown in the form of a pro forma cash flow statement in Annex
5.1. The result can be said to reflect a truer picture.
Airport Charges
5.2       The schedule of existing airport charges is given in Aninex 5.2, and
a comparative table o. landing and handling charges at Male airport is also
included in the annex. The tafle indicates that for a Boeing 747 the daytime
landing charge is US$1,042. T e comparative landing charges in neighboring
countries are: India $2,622; Pakistan $2,303; Sri Lanka $1,292; and Mauritius
$764. The Maldivian landing charges might appear to be on the low side
compared to some of the airports in the region except Mauritius. The policy
of the Government, however, is to encourage growth in airline traffic, partic-
ularly scheduled services, by keeping the landing charges on a moderate scale.
Another reason for maintaining such a scale is the existing poor condition of
the runway, the lack of facilities such as ILS, and the current perception of
Male as an airport offering a minimum of services. It is the intention of the
Government to review the airport charges upon the completion of the project
when the airport would have been upgraded to a higher standard of operations,
both at the airside and at the landside. All departing international
passengers (other than in-transit) pay a passenger handling charge of US$7.0
per individual and this charge continues to bring in a handsome income for the
airport.
B. Future Prospects
5.3       MAA's financial results have been forecast for 1990 through 1995.
They have been prepared on a pro-forma basis and include the accounting of
MAA's assets, liabilities, revenues and expenditures including depreciation
and interest on accrual and activity basis, cash flow, and the servicing of
all airport investments related debt. The projections (income statement,
statement of sources and applications of funds, and balance sheet) show satis-
factory results. Financial assumptions are given in Annex 5.3.



- 33 -
Pro Forma Income Statement
5.4       The projected pro forma income statements for 1990 through 1995
shown in detail in Annex 5.4 are summarized below.
Table 5.2: PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT SUMMARY (Pro Forma)
(Rf million)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Operating revenues                     52.4   54.9   57.3   60.9   64.1   67.4
Cash working expenses                  23.3   25.1   26.9   29.0   31.1   33.3
Depreciation and &.rite-offs           12.7   14.7   19.4   24.1   24.5   24.5
Operating expenses                     36.0   39.8   46.3   53.1   55.6   57.8
Net operating income                   16.4   15.1   11.0    7.8    8.5    9.6
Interest expense                        3.2    3.8    4.2    3.9    3.7    3.2
Net income                             13.2   11.3    6.8    3.9    4.8 C_-4
Operating ratio Z /a                   69     73      81     87     87      86
Return on net fixed assets La           8.6    6.9    3.6    2.2    2.5    3.0
/a   Revaluation of existing fixed assets has not been considered since the
aim of the additional investments under the project at almost equivalent
cost to the original is to rebuild/rehabilitate a large portion of the
old worn out/run down facilities into a normal state of operable condi-
tion without substantially increasing their capacity. Also, in this
process some of these facilities are being removed in order to build new
structures. However, when assets are revalued on the basis of the
limited information available the ratios are less favorable. For
example, for the years 1993, 1994 and 1995 the operating ratios are 91,
93, 93, percent respectively while the rate of return on net fixed assets
is 1.4, 1.2 and 1.3 percent respectively. The TOR for upgrading the
accounting, financial and rmanagement information systems detailed in
Annex 2.5 provide for establishing appropriate values and depreciation
rates for fixed assets in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.
5.5       The projections are based on the following assumptions:
(a)  Operating Revenues.  MAA's income from landing charges and aircraft
handling charges is projected to grow at 3 percent, the same growth
rate as assumed for aircraft landings. The income from the
passenger services charge of t!S$7.00 per departing passenger is
assumed to increase at an annual rate of 4 percent which is the same
as the growth forecast for tourist arrivals. The rate of increase



- 34 -
for the other revenue items, such as fuel commission, airport con-
cessions and rents, etc. is based on modest annual increments. No
increase in tariffs has been assumed; however, it is expected that
the Government will review the airport charges in general upon the
completion of the project. Even without any tariff increase, the
financial situation is basically satisfactory as demonstrated in the
statement of the sources and applications of funds and the balance
sheets that follow.
(b)  Operating Expenses.  Personnel costs projections take into account
adjustments of 9 percent per year for cost of living expenses. The
present staff strength is considered adequate for handling the pro-
jected growth in traffic as come improvements in productivity are
expected from bettsr facilities and facilitation procedures contem-
plated during the period.  Expenses for materials and supplies, pur-
chased services and energy, and general and administrative items are
assumed to increase at a rate of 7 percent per annum, keeping in
step with price level increases. The cost of technical assistance
and training is being written-off over 10 years, starting 1993.
Depreciation of fixed assets have been calculated at appropriate
rates based on historical costs.
(r)  Interest Expense.  The existing loans (excepting a supplier's
credit) and the new loans for the project are from development
lending institutions and as such the rates range from a maximum of
3 percent to 0.75 percent per annum. Since MAA functions as a
department of the Government, there is no onlending involved.
Determination of an interest rate as a cost of capital has not been
taken into account. However, the TOR detailed in Annex 2.5 also
provide for developing financial objectives and cost recovery
policies that include consideration of cost of capital, particularly
of loan capital.
5.6       Operating ratios ranging from 69 percent to 87 percent are accep-
table. The rate of return on net fixed assets ranges from 8.6 percent to
2.2 percent. Both these indicators reflect low performance In the years 1993
and 1994 because they immediately follow the investments under the project
before their utilization begins to produce better operating results. However,
improvements begin to register starting year 1995.



- 35 -
Projected Pro Forma Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
5.7       The projected pro forma statements for years 1990 through 1995 shown
in detail in Annex 5.5 are summarized below:
Table 5.3: PROJECTED STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS SUMMARY (Pro Forma)
(Rf million)
Project Period
1990-93                 2
Sources
Internally generated                            121.2                 45
Lesss  Debt Service                              91.2                 34
30.0                 11
Borrowings - project                            184.0                 69
Government contribution - project                54.7                 20
Total                                      268.7                100
Applications
Project investments                             238.7                 89
Changes in working capital incl. cash            14.3                  5
Payments to the Government                       15.7                  6
Total                                      268.7                100
Debt service coverage                             1.3
The above summary indicates that:  (a) the internal cash generation within MAA
is adequate to service its existing debt as well as the new debt relating to
the project; and (b) such internal cash generation will also enable MAA to pay
back to the Government a total of Rf 15.7 which is, in fact, some 30 percent
of the Government contribution to) the project.
Projected Pro forma Balance Sheet
5.8       MAA's projected proforma balance sheets for years 1990 through 1995
shown in detail in Annex 5.6 are summarized below:



- 36 -
Table 5.4: PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY (Pro Forma)
(Rf million)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Current assets                         9.3   13.6   14.8   16.1   17.3   18.6
Net fixed assets - existing          190.7  178.0  165.3  152.6  139.9  127.2
Net fixed assets - project              -     68.9  194.4  203.4  193.3  183.2
Work-in-progress                       79.4  102.9   35.6    -       -      -
Deferred charge                         -      -      -     15.2   13.5   11.8
Total Assets                      279.4  363.4  410.1  387.3  364.0  340.8
Current liabilities                   20.8   20.2   21.8   21.9   22.0   23.0
Long-term debt                       168.8  223.5  242.1  222.0  201.9  180.9
Government's patrimony                76.6   97.7  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9
Net retained earnings                 13.2   22.0   22.3   19.5   16.2   13.0
(after payment to Government)
Total Liabilities & Equity        279.4  363.4  410.1  387.3  364.0  340.8
Debt/Equity ratio                    65/35  65/35  62/38  61/39  59/41  57/43
Current ratio                          0.4    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.8    0.8
The above summary shows that: (a) the improvement of MAA's debt/equity ratio
from 65/35 to 57/43 would assure decreasing financial demands on MAA's earn-
ings on account of future debt service requirements; and (b) although the cur-
rent ratio improves from 0.4 to 0.8 it still denotes a below par situation.
The current portion of long-term debt constitutes over 90 percent of the cur-
rent liabilities but as shown in the preceding paragraph, the debt service
coverage ratios are more than adequate. This apparent variance is caused by
the assumption that MAA's cash holdings be limited to Rf 0.5 million and that
any excess of cash generation over this imprest be passed on to the
Government. Should it happen that MAA is short of funds to meet its debt ser-
vice or working capital requirements, the Government, as is currently being
done, will make available any such shortfalls.
Financial Objectives for MAA
5.9       Appropriate accounting, financial and information systems for MAA
will be developed and MAA's staff will be trained under the technical
assistance and training component of the project. Recommendations relating to
financial objectives for MAA will also be formulated. The new systems, which
are an essential prerequisite for the establishment and monitoring of
financial objectives, however, will not be in place until January 1, 1993.
Therefore, at this stage, a broad cash generation covenant is considered
sufficient Lor assuring financial viability of MAA's operations. During nego-
tiations, it was agreed that starting fiscal year 1993 the Government will
enable MAA, annually, through the airport tariffs: (a) to generate sufficient



- 37 -
revenues to cover all airport related operating expenses including adequate
maintenance and appropriate depreciation provisions; and (b) to maintain MAA's
annual internal generation of funds at levels sufficient to cover (i) annual
debt servicing requirements of all existing and any new airport related debt
including debt relating to the project; (ii) its working capital requirements;
and (iii) payments to the Government as reasonably determined, annually, by
the Government. With the view of implementing the above, GO and IDA would,
towards the end of 1992, review the financial prospects for MAA and, taking
into account the recommendations of the accountant/financial consultant
regarding appropriate targets for MAA, would make decisions on ways and means
to achieve adequate revenue generation and financial self-sufficiency for MAA.



- 38 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       The following was agreed:
(a)  HAA to implement by January 1, 1993 a new double entry accrual and
activity based accounting system and towards this end: (i) engage by
January 1, 1991 a consultant to assist with the design and implemen-
tation of the new system and (ii) engage by January 1, 1991 a
management accountant to act as the counterpart of the consultant
and to be in charge of the implementation of the new system
(para. 2.17);
(c) GOM to make adequate overall budgetary provisions to cover its
estimated US$4.95 million contribution to the project during the
implementation period and any unforeseen adverse cost development
(para. 3.9);
(d) that the IDB loan will have been declared effective by December 31,
1990 or that GOM establishes that adequate funds for completion of
the project are available from other sources (para. 3.11);
Ce) GOM to have the project accounts and special account (starting the
date of project implementation) and the accounts of MAA (beginning
year 1993) audited an4 the relevant certified annual financial
statements submitted to IDA within nine months of each year end
(paras. 2.21 and 3.17); and
(f) starting January 1, 1993 GOM to enable MAA, annually, through
airport tariffs, to generate sufficient revenues to cover all
airport operating expenses; and to maintain sufficient internal cash
generation to service annually all airport related debt, cover MAA's
working capital requirements and make reasonable annual payments to
GOM (para. 5.9).
6.2       A condition of effectiveness of the Credit will be that a Project
Implementation Unit has been established within MAA and that the Project
Director and the procurement officer have been appointed (para. 3.14).
6.3       On the basis of the above agreements and condition, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 5.9 million (US$7.5 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Republic of Maldives.



REPU8LIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPIRT UPCoRAOING PROJECT
Tourist Arrivals by Moth., 1972-88
Mow"       172   1973   1974   1975  1978   1977   1978   1979   1980   1961   1982   1983   1984   198S   1986    1987   1968    1969
Jauaory     1068    36      770   1,210   1,784  2,414   3,03o  4,243   6,064  8,432  9,402  10,882  9,239  11,907  13,937  14,092  16,410  10,834
Fobroory    107    296    877    927   1,758   2,158   2,901   3,853   4,748  6,909  8,921  10,227  9,200  11,766  12,797  14,214  17,318  17,076
Hrdi         0      235    708   1,103  1,329  1,978   3,107  3,915   4,746   5,735  8,146  10,430  8,302  10,896  13,3S6  13,639  16,871  17,136
Apri 1       41    254    062    445  1,101   1,397   1,567  2,667   3,146   5,004 6,6439  6,66    8,742  10,433   9,460  11,337  12,S62  10,314
sMy          54      89    332    328    480    749  1,068  1,519  1,552  2,768  8,128  4,804  3,818  7,007   5,770   7,056  8,841   8,013
Jumo         74    136    216    296    398    O0    1,061   1,226   1,474  2,437  2,627  2,739  2,938  5,344   4,921   6,038   7,907  7,08?
July         S7    163    324    394        515    973   2,098  2,024  2,068  3,077  3,907  4,202  5,343  8,073   7,3s7  9,4U4  11,619  10,982
Auuet        09    299    675    0S5        410  1,406  2,548  2,468  3,589  5,306  5,S27  4,147  7,021  10,58s  8,023  10,358  13,627  13,748    '
Saptcmbor    00    180    447       8se    481      862   1,8I     1,399  2,205   3,774  4,220  2,968   5,640   8,248   6,829   9,038  12,132  11,980
October      89    247    465    637    042  1,360   2,181   1,69   2,588  4,410   5,342  4,272  6,040  9,049  7,8721   9,409  12,745  13,546
November     s9    486   8700    962  1,258  2,015   3,460  3,262  4,002  0,147  7,164  6,098  6,440  9,252  9,410  11,698  10,942  16,018
ocDbor    260  1,069  1,247   1,083   2,141   2,752  4,472  4,85s  6,700  8,277  9,978  7,778  11,129 12,096  13,036  16,269  14,093  16,754
Totol  1.097   3.790  7.693  9.013  12.477  18.6   29.325  33124  42.007  60,358  74?411  74.163  83.814 114.654 113.963 131.399 166I,77 168.468
Source: M8nistry of Tourism.



- 40 -                             ANNEX 1.2
REPUBLIC OF HALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Bed Capacity by Type of Establishment, 1981-88
Category            1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Tourist Resorts   3,228   3,984   4,450   4,724   5,375   5,559   6,203   7,119
Hotels               166      166     186      178      178     178      170     170
Guest Houses         425      659     796      259      204     332      405     387
Vessels               96      241     288      302      179     345      546     339
All Types          3,915   5,050   5,722   5,463   5,936   6,414   7,324   8,015
Sourcet Ministry of Tourism.



- 41 -                           ANNEX 1.3
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Bed Occupancy Rate by Month. 1980-88
(2)
Month             1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
January           81.3   76.6   85.4   75.1   68.2   79.1   74.2   79.4   85.6
February          77.1   71.9   84.2   73.6   67.1   81.6   71.7   80.9   84.7
March             67.8   61.9   73.3   66.1   58.3   71.7   70.9   73.4   81.6
April             42.0   45.8   53.7   43.5   50.2   58.2   56.0   62.1   62.8
Hay               15.8   18.9   18.9   19.1   25.5   40.8   32.5   40.3   41.5
June              11.1   14.5   16.5   14.4   19.1   29.9   23.5   30.3   33.9
July              23.4   26.9   24.2   24.7   31.1   52.0   37.1   48.0   49.1
August            46.0   46.6   37.8   37.1   47.6   56.3   50.0   60.8   61.8
September         22.5   26.2   26.3   25.1   38.1   48.1   39.5   50.2   56.1
October           24.2   30.7   28.4   28.3   38.3   52.3   43.3   53.9   57.7
November          47.6   58.0   51.6   37.6   51.8   51.2   51.1   63.9   57.3
December          60.8   66.9   56.7   46.3   63.7   60.0   61.4   71.8   62.3
Annual Average   43.3   45.4   46.4   40.9   46.6   55.9   50.9   59.6   61.1
Source: Ministry of Tourism.



ANNEX 1.4
- 4.2 -
REPUBLIC OF HALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Government Revenues from Tourism - 1989
Gross Revenues
Tourism tax                                       8.66
Lease income                                      3.69
Airport operating revenues                        5.53
Tourism related import duty                       4.23
Subtotal                                     22.11
Recurrent ExPenditures
Airport operating expenditures                    2.40
Tourism Ministry expenditures                     0.30
Subtotal                                      2.70
Met Recurrent Revenues                       19.41
Sourcet Ministry of Tourism, Mission Estimates.



- 43 -                          ANNEX 1.5
REPUBLIC 0F MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Growth in Total Tourist Arrivals 1979-2010
Year                                  Tourist Arrivals
1979                                       33,124
1980                                       42,007
1981                                       60,358
1982                                       74,411
1983                                       74,163
1984                                       83,814
1985                                      114,554
1986                                      113,953
1987                                      131,399
1988                                      155,757
1989                                      158,000
1t90                                      164,300
1991                                      170.900
1992                                      177,700
1993                                      184,800
1994                                      192,200
1995                                      198,000
1996                                      203,900
1997                                      210,000
1998                                      216,400
1999                                      222,800
2000                                      227,300
2005                                      251,000
2010                                      277,000
Sourcet Ministry of Tourism, Mission Estimates.



ASE 1.6
- 44 -
REPULIC Of VALWIVES
MAULE AIRPORT UPORADIN0 PROJECt
Voeseio by Type end Loccolity, 190
Fishing     Mechanized                                 Other
Locality                     weasels    yacht DhoanIo    Boththoll   Launches    vosoels  Boats
Ropublic                     98371            47            192         614         2.J09     275
North thilodhbuntbl            628             -             2@           2           141       4
South Thildhunrethl           641             1             12           2           116       1
North miladbunmedulu           71*             -             1O           -           178       -
South MilodbunmAdulu           630             0             14           1           209       1
North moolhoeduld              914             1             21           t           164       1
South Maolhoemdulu             6JJ             -             10           a            09       1
Foadbippolhu                   292             1              6           1            78       2
Male Atoll                   1,080            22             1         P20           281     220
Arl Atoll                      629             0              8           1           126       -
Folidbu Atoll                   01             -              -           -            91       -
ulakoetholbu                   171             -              1           1            57       -
North Nllandho AtoIl           215             -              S           8            72       -
South Nllandho Atoll           380             2              7           5           152       -
KolhueOdulu                    408             -             10           -           282       -
adhduroth                       2              -              -           -           145       -
North Nuvedbu Atoll            888             -              1           -            62       J
South Huvadbu Atoll            500             2              7           2            Os      14
Foahm I h                      450             -              2           -            e1       6
Addu Atoll                     644             2              -          80            02      22
Sourco: Ministry of Traonport and Shipping.



- 45 -l.7
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Road Vehicles by Type, 1984-1989
Types of vehicles         1985         1986         1987        1988       1989
All types               14,871       16,8S7       19,456       23,037     28,550
Bicycle                 12,824       14,561       16,681      19,337      23.953
Motorcar                   336          368          401          440        509
Hotorcycle                 941        1,037        1,241        1,728      2,388
Trucks and tractors        135         1i8           234          310        368
Van, bus                    45           51           59           66          66
Jeep, landrover, pickup   158           172          192          240         332
Handcart                   432          480          648          916        934
Source: Ministry of Transport and Shipping.



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Airport Traffic 1970-1989
Passengers                       Cargo (kg)                       Hail               Total
Year       in       Out      Total        In        Out     Subtotal      In        Out   Subtotal Cargo/Mail
1970                            514           -         -           -        -
1971          -         -       527           -         -                                       -           _
1972        919     1,096     2,015                     -                                                   --  -
1973      3,789     3,450     7.239           -         -           -         --
1974      7,513     7,580    15,093           -         -           -        --
1975      8,004     9,775    17,779           -         -           -         --
1976     12,477    12,749    25,226           -         -           -        -
1977     18,668    20,591    39,259           -         -           -        --
1978     29,265    28,686    57,951                     -           -         --
1979     36,363    35,726    72,089     339,149    50,654     389,803        -         -        -     389,803
1980     44,121    43,686    87,807     547,054    56,065     603,119   13,184   19,375   32,559      635,678
1981     63,544    62,666   126,210     983,720    70,397   1,054,117   13,882   13,895   27,777   1,081,894
1982     81,141    81,113   162,254   1,356,948    89,938   1,446,886   14,602    9,389   23,991   1,470,877
1983     79,890    78,819   158,709   1,601,956   107,188   1,709,144   27,313   13,306   40,619   1,749,763
1984     90,905    90,353   181,258   2,156,900    84,018   2.240,918   31,512   10,071   41,583   2,282,501
1985    121,924   120,667   242,591   2,390,638   340,407   2,731,045   24,676   11,791   36,467   2,767,512
1986    124,622   123,578   248,200   2,440,405   123,157   2,563,562   23,852   14,266   38,118   2,601,680
1987    144,254   143,639   287,893   2,959,761   102,835   3,062,596   21,215   27,511   48,726   3,111,322
1988    172,264   171,640   343,904   3,651,444   170,836   3,822,280   21,757   17,185   38,942   3,861,222
1989    179,488   178,994   35A,482   4,358,853   295,294   4,654,147   22,574   14,179   36,753   4,690,900
___--------------------------------------------------------__---------------__----------------------------_
Note: 1. Passengers include international and domestic passengers but not transit passengers (for airport
tax purposes)                                                                                          I
2.  Transit passengers are those passing through disembarking and embarking procedures but are exempt
from the airport tax.
Source: Department of Civil Aviation.



- 47 -                          ANNEX 2.2
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Airport Passenger Arrival Projections
Visitor            Maldivian                  Total arrivals
Year           arrivals           arrivals                                Airport
(1)                 (2)              (1)+(2)           statistics
1985           114,554              7,179             121,733             121,924
1986           113,953              8,753             122,706             124,622
1987           131,399             11,387             142,786             144,254
1988           155,757             14,365             170,122             172,264
1989           158,000             16,000             174,000             179,488
1990           164,300             16,600             180,900
1991           170,90C             17,300             188,200
1992           177,700             18,000             195,700
1993           184,800             18,700             Z03,500
1994           192,200             19,500             211,700
1995           198,000             20,100             213,100
1996           203,900             20,700             224,600
1997           210,000             21,300             231,300
1998           216,400             21,900             238,300
1999           222,800             22,600              245,400
2000           227,300             23,000             250,300
2005           251,000             25,400             276,400
2010           277,000             28,000              305,000
Sources:  Ministry of Tourism, MAA, Mission Estimates.



- 48 -                             ANNEX 2.3
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Aicraft Movements 1985-2005
International                         Domestic
Non-                            Non-             Total
Year  Scheduled  Charter  scheduled  Total  Scheduled  scheduled  Total Movements
1985    2,367        340        320    3,027        -           -          -   3,027
1986    1,524        396        144    2,064      240         346        586   2,650
1987    1,702        578        135    2,415      316         304        620   3,035
1988    2,014        658        284    2,956      306         424        730   3,686
1989    2,022        712        301    3,035      213         999      1,212   4,247
Proiected
1990    2,083            1,043         3,126                           1,248   4,374
1991    2,145            1,075         3,220                           1,286   4,506
1992    2,209            1,107         3,316                           1,324   4,640
1993    2,276            1,140         3,416                           1,364   4,780
1994    2,344            1,174         3,518                           1,405   4,923
1995    2,391            1,198         3,589                           1,433   5,022
1996    2,439            1,222         3,661                           1,462   5,123
1997    2,488            1,246         3,734                           1,491   5,225
1998    2,537            1,271         3,808                           1,521   5,329
1999    2,588            1,297         3,885                           1,551   5,436
2000    2,640            1,322         3,962                           1,582   5,544
2001    2,693            1,349          4,042                          1,614   5,656
2002    2,746            1,376         4,122                           1,646   4,768
2003    2,801            1,403         4,204                           1,679   5,883
2004    2,857            1,432         4,289                           1,713   6,002
2005    2,914            1,460         4,374                           1,747   6,121
Source:  Department of Civil Aviation, Mission Estimates.



ANNEX 2.4
-49 -
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Key Steps for Improving the Accounting and Financial Activities
at the Maldives Airports Authority
The key steps are enumerated below:
(a) define (through the Terms of Reference--see draft outline in Annex
2.6) the objectives and the scope of work involved, i.e., the estab-
lishment of a system of accounts based on (i) double-entry bookkeep-
ing; (li) activity-based accrual accounting; (iii) chart of accounts
providing codes and definitions in respect of balance sheet accounts
classifications (current assets, fixed assets and accumulated depre-
ciation, deferred charges, current liabilities, noncurrent liabili-
ties including long-term debt, capital, reserves and retained earn-
ings), income accounts classifications (operating revenues, operat-
ing expenses including depreciation charges, and departmental and/or
cost center accounts) and nonoperating accounts classifications
(such as interest expenselincome, prior years' items, gains or
losses in the disposal of fixed assets, etc.); (iv) monthly closing
of accounts; and (v) preparation and circulation of appropriate
budget, financial and management information reports;
(b) provision under the project of an individual consultant (preferably
on secondment for brief periods from a reputable international air-
port) to design, develop and assist in implementing the proposed new
accounting system;
(c) appointment by MAA of a competent individual with sufficient experi-
ence and qualifications initially as a management accountant to act
as a counterpart to the above consultant in implementing the pro-
posed new accounting system, and later to manage it;
(d) appointment of one of the three private firms of Chartered Accoun-
tants practicing in Male as MAA's internal auditors. If possible,
they should also assist in the implementation of the proposed new
accounting system;
(e) provision under the project of personal computers and software to
assist in streamlining the accounting operations; and
(f) provision under the project of appropriate specialized training for
MAA accounting and financial staff, particularly with respect to the
proposed new accounting system, by way of on-the-job training,
tutorials, fellowships, training visits with the reputable interna-
tional airport organization referred to above, etc.



- 50 -                          ANNEX 2.5
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Draft Outline of Terms of Reference for the
Consultancy Services of an Expert Well-Versed in
Accounting, Financial and Information Systems
Relating to Airport Operations
I. INTRODUCTION
In the context of preparing a project for the upgrading of facili-
ties at the Male International Airport, a concomitant need has come to light
for the upgrading of the accounting practices of the Maldives Airports
Authority (MAA) which is responsible for the management of the Male airport.
The Government of Maldives, of which MAA is a part, has therefore decided to
obtain the consultancy services of an expert well-versed in accounting,
financial and information disciplines relating to airport operations.
II. OBJECTIVES
The purpose of the consultancy service is tot
(a) Carry out a diagnostic review of the existing practices at MAA
covering the accounting, financial and information functions so as
to determine their deficiencies as compared to the needs of a well-
managed modern airport of comparable size as Male, and in terms of
generally accepted accounting principles.
(b) Design and recommend, as a result of the above review, new and/or
improved methods for performing the accounting, financial and infor-
mation functions within MAA.
(c) Assist MAA in implementing the above recommendations as agreed with
MAA.
(d) Develop, on a proforma basis, a set of financial objectives for
possible adaptation by MAA which, in the long term, could lead to
establishing within MAA the principles and systems relating to:
(i) accountability and well-defined financial goals to be achieved
by linking annual budgets and annual operating plans with
actual/specific performance and the achievement of improvements
in productivity, growth, cost efficiency and cost recovery: and
(ii) pricing policies taking into account the viability and growth
of the tourism industry (in view of the fact that the airport
services are part of the chain of activities serving the
tourism industry as a whole) for the various services rendered



- 51 -                         ANNEX 2.5
Page 2
by MAA at the airport which would ensure the full recovery of
costs (including assigning an appropriate rate for cost of loan
capital obtained at concessionary rates by the Government) and
satisfactory levels of profitability.
III. SCOPE OF WORK
Work Program
The consultant shall review in detail the existing accounting,
financial and information practices in MAA and other agencies which perform
some of the functions on behalf of MAA as, for example, The Maldives Monetary
Authority (MMA) which carries out accounting and servicing of all airport
related debt. After completing the above review the consultant shall concep-
tualize and develop a model of the accounting, financial and information sys-
tems representing the needs of a well-managed modern international airport.
The consultant shall then design these systems to the needs and organizational
culture of MAA, and make recommendations to MAA for their adaptation. Upon
receiving MAA's approval for adaptation of the recommended systems, the con-
sultant shall assist MAA in their implementation.
In carrying out the above, the consultant shall divide his work pro-
gram into two stages. The first stage shall focus on the priority task of
setting up of the basic general accounting system. The second stage shall
concentrate on developing the management aspects of accounting such as cost-
ing, setting pricing policies and financial goals, measuring performance, etc.
First Stage
(a) Review, design, develop and assist in implementing a standard
accounting plan and general accounts classification and coding
system, detailing balance sheet accounts, revenue and expenditure
accounts, departmental accounts, etc. together with related
policies, systems and procedures, follow-up methods and analytical
techniques.
(b) Review, design, develop and assist in implementing methods and
procedures for activity-based full accrual accounting, monthly
closing of accounts and the extraction of monthly trial balance and
proof sheets. From these, it should be possible to prepare and cir-
culate monthly management reports, including:
-    Balance Sheet
-    Income Statement (supported by details of operating revenues,
operating expenses, departmental and/or cost center accounts,
and non-operating items such as interest expense, etc.)
-    Responsibility Accounting:  Budget versus Actuals for opera-
tional performance and related expenditure
-    Status of Capital Investment Programs
-    Cash Forecast



- 52 -                          ANNEX 2.5
Page 3
(c) Review, design and develop techniques for assessing the financial
situation and performance levels from these reports.
(d) Review, design, develop and assist in implementing internal control
systems through internal audit procedures and built-in internal
checks.
(e) Review, design, develop and assist in implementing an adequate
system of record-keeping for fixed assets categories and individual
items showing their values and related depreciation through appro-
priate subsidiary accounts. In this connection, the consultant
should review the existing fixed assets values and related deprecia-
tion reserves and rates, and establish, with the help of MAA manage-
ment, appropriate values and depreciation rates in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.
(f) Review, design, develop and assist in implementing an adequate
system of record-keeping for qutntities and cost of individual items
through appropriate subsidiary a..counts of stores inventory
receipts, issues and balances on hand, and procedures for estab-
lishing their appropriate values in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.
(g) Develop and recommend an appropriate accounting organization struc-
ture and staffing plan for the efficient conduct of accounting,
finance and information functions.
(h) Design and assist in implementing the use of standard forms for
recording and controlling all transactions.
(i) Prepare an accounting manual setting forth a coded chart of accounts
with descriptions of general as well as cost accounts, accounting
and costing methods and procedures, instructions on the use of
forms, guidelines on budget preparation and control, procedures
governing accounting for fixed assets and related depreciation, and
stores inventory (including guidelines for distinguishing between
capital and expense items). The manual should be of assistance to
supervisors in ensuring the accurate accounting of all transactions,
for the timely preparation of information and reports, and for the
training of staff.
Second Stage
(j) Review and develop a cost accounting plan together with a coding
system for introduction in MAA at a later stage after ensuring that
the general accounting system is working satisfactorily in HAA.
(k) Develop for introduction in MAA at the appropriate time the concept
of departmental operational performance objectives and departmental
budgets, and responsibility accounting through budgetary controls,
and monthly budget reports for establishing accountability.



ANNEX 2.5
- 53 -                          Page 4
(1) Develop for introduction in MAA at the appropriate time a set of
pricing policies and financial objectives for MAA and a system for
their current and continuous review including methods for updating
them.
Training and Computer Applications
(m)  During the first and second stages of the consultant's work program
mentioned above, special attention should be paid to the training of
MAA Staff in the new and improved accounting, financial, and manage-
ment information systems designed and developed by the consultant,
and to the appropriate computer applications of such systems within
MAA. These includes
(i) in addition to the in-house and on-the-job training programs to
be developed and/or conducted by the consultant, the consultant
should assist MAA in identifying and arranging appropriate
overseas training programs, fellowships and secondments, and
selecting suitable MAA staff to undergo such training programs
under the project financed by the World Bank Group; and
(ii) the consultant should also assist MAA in identifying and
selecting appropriate small-scale equipment such as
personal/mini computers including software for computer
applications of the new and improved accounting, financial, and
management information systems designed and developed by the
consultant, such equipment and software being provided under
the project financed by the World Bank Group.
Time Schedule for Consultant's Services and Reports
The assignment would cover a total of 7 to 9 staff months as
follows.  Commencing on or about January 1, 1991, the consultant would provide
an initial input of about 6 months (one month for a diagnostic review and S
months for designing, developing and implementing the new and improved
accounting system and training of MAA staff). If requested by MAA, there
would be follow-up visits to MAA for periods of about 2 to 3 weeks each to
ensure that implementation of the proposals is proceeding satisfactorily and
that the new system is fully operational by January 1, 1993.
The consultant shall commence work within thirty calendar days of
the effective date of the services contract. The following reports should be
prepared and submitted within the time limit indicated belows
(a)  an Inception Report within two months (or as otherwise agreed) of
the starting date describing the consultant's initial findings, out-
lining the methodology to be employed and listing preliminary pro-
posals, plans and programs and bar charts showing work components
and their time frame. (Number of copies of the report and their
distribution to be defined);



ANNEX 2.5
- 54-                          Page 5
(b)  an Interim Report within six months of the starting date (or other-
wise agreed) summarizing all work performed, the consultant's
findings and recommendations and bar charts showing progress of work
and work completion schedule. (Numbers of copies of the report and
their distribution to be defined);
(c) a Final Report within fifteen months of the starting date or on com-
pletion of assignment (or as otherwise agreed) incorporating all
revisions to and updating of the interim report, and summary of
additional work performed, the consultant's findings and recommenda-
tions and bar charts sharing work performed by components together
with copy of the accounting manual referred to in Section B (i)
above. (Number of copies of this report and their distribution to
be defined).
IV. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY HAA
A.   Economic, Financial, Staff, Statistical (including passenger and aircraft
movements), User Charges System, Leases and Contracts and Technical Data
Available.
MAA. is to provide the consultant all existing data, studies and
reports including the following:
(a) Reports prepared by Mr. Paul Smith of the Voluntary Service of the
U.K.;
(b) MAA's own publications, reports, instructions, standing orders etc.
prepared from time to time, as for example, Airport Regulations,
Bulletins, Aeronautical Information Publications (AIP), Airport
Tariffs, etc.;
(c) Other relevant reports or documents; MAA is also to provide the con-
sultant with all available additional data as required and deter-
mined by the consultant.
B. Cooperation of Governmental Agencies and Counterparts
In connection with work by the consultant that requires the cooper-
ation of other Governmental agencies or authorities MAA is to provide liaison,
and is to ensure that the consultant has access to all information required
for the completion of the work program.
MAA is to assign, on a full-time basis, appropriate counterparts to
work with the consultant for the purposes of liaison, training and prompt
review of the findings and recommendations of the consultant and the
implementation of approved recommendations.



- 55 -                           ANNEX 2.5
Page 6
C. Facilities and Supporting Staff for the Consultants
HAA is to provide the following facilities and staff to help the
consultant in performing the services in Haldives:
(a) office space and furniture;
(b) transportation within Maldives (to be determined); and
(c) utilities, telephone, and telex services (to be determined). MAA is
to assist the consultant in locating satisfactory and appropriate
hotel or other living accommodation and entry and exit formalities
in Maldives.



-56 -                                     ANNEX 3.1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Financina Pion
Kuwait
Item                           Cost     Fund     OPEC    IDA     IDS    Subtotal   Govt.   Total
Works
Te'V;r eystem                  a50        0        0       0       0         0      350      350
Repair drain covors             89       0        0       0       0          0       89       89
Sewerage                       804     280        0       0       0        280       24      304
Aircraft sewerage              126     116        0       0       0        116       10      125
Shoulders                      5oo       0        0       0       0          0      5oo      soo
Apron drains                   287     284        0       0       0        284       23      287
Terminal complex             1,600       0        0       0       0          0    1,600    1,800
Shore protection             4,474   4,117        0       0       0      4,117      357    4,474
Soil stabilization 1           784     721        0       0       0        721       88      784
Soil stabilization 2           e60     652        0       0       0        652       48      600
Runway overlay               3,080       0        0   8,080       0      8,080        0    3,080
Runway rehabilitation        2,206       0        0   2,206       0      2,206        0    2,208
Apron A turning pads         3,822       0      450       0   2,700      8,150      872    3,822
Airfield lighting              480     211      100     loo       0        411       19      430
Subtotal works           18 861   6.260      5so  5.388   2.700    14,89    38.755   18,661
Eautpn mnt
LS/DUE                       1,400       0    1,400       0       0     1,400         0    1,400
Fire tender                    480       0        0     480       0       480         0      480
Generatore                     850       0        0     850       0        380        0      350
Subtotal equipment        2,230       2    1,400     830       0     2,230         2    2,230
Con*ultanc kServices
Engineering d4sign             800    e80         0       0       0       600         0      8oo
Supervision                    88s     838        0       0       0        835        0      83s
Technical assistance           2so       0        0     260       0        250        0      250
Subtotal consultancy      1.625   1.435        0     250       _     L1e35         2    1.635
Total Baws Costs         225668   7,696    1.950   8.488   2,700    18,811    3,755   22.68s
Contingencies                  8,884     806       60   1,034     300      2,189    1,196    3,384
Total Project Cost       25.960  8esoo    2.000   7.500   3.000    21,000    4.950   265950



- 57 -                           ANNEX 3.2
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                                    Skill               Staff
Dates          Activity                  Requirements          Inputs
1990   Ongoing      Review progress reports,    general
procurement proposals       procurement            2.5
and other communications    financial
Oct-Nov      Supervision mission to       general               1.0
review start-up of
project
1991   Ongoing      Review progress reports.    general
procurement proposals       procurement            4.0
and other communications    financial
March-April Review preliminary
report by accounting        financial              0.5
expert
June-July    Supervision mission to
review physical progress    general
and final proposals for     financial              4.5
accounting improvement      engineering
1992   Ongoing      Review progress reports      general
and other communications    financial              3.5
engineering
Feb.-March   Supervision mission to
review physical progress    general
and implementation of       financial              4.5
accounting improvements     engineering
November     Supervision mission to
review physical progress
and agree on revenue        general
generation targets for      financial              4.5
MAA and discuss prepara-    engineering
tion of project comple-
tion report by MAA



- 58 -                             ANNEX 3,3
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
HALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal year                                   Dlsbursement
and semester                       Per semester  Cumulative
US$ 000 --------                    2
1991
Dec. 31, 1990                          350            350              5
June 30, 1991                          580            930             12
1992
Dec. 31, 1991                        3,200          4,130             55
June 30, 1992                        2,100          6,230             83
1993
Dec. 31, 1992                        1,200          7,430             99
June 30, 1993                           70          7,500            100



_ 59 -                            ANNEX 3.4
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Progress Reporting
1.        Progress reports shall be submitted to the Association quarterly in
triplicate, no later than one calendar month after the end of the quarter.
The first report should cover the period ending September 30, 1990. In
addition, a monthly note of 1-3 pages giving highlights on project implementa-
tion should be submitted within 15 days of the end of each month starting with
the month of July 1990.
2.        The quarterly report should contain the following information:
A. Procurement
For each component for which a contract has not been signed yet:
(a) procurement actions taken during the quarter; and
(b) schedule of procurement actions during the next quarter.
B. Implementation of Physical Components
(a) Physical progress during the reporting period;
(b) actual or expected deviations from the implementation schedule;
(c) update of the implementation schedule for each component in the form
of a bar chart;
(d) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effect on the
implementation schedule and the steps taken or planned to overcome
the difficulties or avoid delays;
(e) expected changes in the completion dates of each component;
(f) key personnel changes in the PIU, with consultants or contractors;
(g) any matters which may affect the cost of the project;
C.  Implementation of Accountancy Improvements at MAA
(a) main activities of the airport accounting/financial consultant and
the management accountant during the quarter;
(b) work program for the next quarter; and
(c) training activities.



,ANNEX 3.4
- 60 -                            Page 2
D.  Financial Reports on MAA
Quarterly and cumulative actuals compared to the budget fort
(c) Revenue Statement; and
(d) Expenditure statement.
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
Information in tabular form which shows for each of the project
components and for the project as a whole:
(a) original estimated cost:
(b) revised cost, if applicable; and
(c) actual expenditures by financing source.
Information on the status of the IDA credit showings
(a) actual withdrawals; and
(b) projected withdrawals.
F. Airport Traffic and Tourist Arrivals
Information in tabular form showing by month: arrivals of visitors
and Maldivian nationals at the airport.



- 61 -                            ANNEX 4.1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Economic Evaluation - 20 Year Period
(US$ million)
Maintenance Costs        Incremental
Investment    With       Without             Government    Net
Year          Costs      Project    Project   Savings   Revenues   Benefits
1990         -7.981       -0.8         -0.8       0          0        -7.981
1991         -9.385       -0.8        -0.8        0          0        -9.385
1992         -6.225       -0.8        -0.8        0          0        -6.225
1993                      -0.4         -0.9     0.5        3.2         3.7
1994                      -0.4         -0.9     0.5        6.5         7.0
1995                      -0.4         -1.1     0.7        9.8        10.5
1996                      -0.4         -1.1     0.7      13.2         13.9
1997                      -0.4         -1.1     0.7       16.2        16.9
1998                      -0.4         -1.1     0.7      19.2         19.9
1999                      -0.4         -1.1     0.7      22.3         23.0
2000                      -0.4         -1.1     0.7      24.9         25.6
2001                      -0.4         -1.1     0.7       27.5        28.2
2002                      -0.4         -1.1     0.7       28.0        28.7
2003         -3           -0.4         -1.1     0.7       28.6        26.3
2004         -3           -0.4         -1.1     0.7       29.2        26.9
2005                      -0.5         -1.1     0.6       29.8        30.4
2006                      -0.5         -1.1     0.6       30.4        31.0
2007                      -0.7         -1.1     0.4       31.1        31.5
2008                      -0.7         -1.1     0.4       31.6        32.0
2009                      -0.7         -1.1     0.4       32.4        32.8
2010                      -0.7         -1.1     0.4       33.0        33.4
2011                      -0.7         -1.1     0.4       36.7        37.1
2012                      -0.7         -1.1     0.4       34.4        34.8
ERRt 362
Sensitivity Analysis: Costs + 302
Benefits - 202
ERR : 27?



- 62 -                            ANNEX 4.2
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Economic Evaluation - 10 Year Period
(US$ million)
Maintenance Costs       Incremental
Investment    With      Without             Government    Net
Year          Costs     Project    Project   Savings   Revenues   Benefits
1990         -7.981      -0.8         -0.8       0         0         -7.981
1991         -9.385      -0.8         -0.8       0         0        -9.385
1992         -6.225      -0.8         -0.8       0         0         -6.225
1993                     -0.4         -0.9     0.5       3.2          3.7
1994                     -0.4         -0.9     0.5       6.5          7.0
1995                     -0.4         -1.1     0.7       9.8         10.5
1996                     -0.4         -1.1     0.7      13.2         13.9
i997                     -0.4         -1.1     0.7      16.2         16.9
1998                     -0.4         -1.1     0.7      19.2         19.9
1999                     -0.4         -1.1     0.7      22.3         23.0
2000                     -0.4         -1.1     0.7      24.9         25.6
2001                     -0.4         -1.1     0.7      27.5         29.2
2002                     -0.4         -1.1     0.7      28.0         28.7
ERRi 33Z
Sensitivity Analysiss Costs + 302
Benefits - 20?
ERR : 23Z



ANNEX 4.3
- 63 -                          Page 1
REPUBLIC OF HALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Evaluation of Alternative Levels of Investment
1.        As part of the economic evaluation of the project three levels of
investment have been compared with the base case under which expenditures are
limited to essential maintenance to keep existing facilities operational:
(i) investments are limited to rehabilitation of existing facilities to
B707/DC8 type aircraft standard; (ii) in addition to (i) above, investments
aim at upgrading of essential facilities to permit continued operation of B747
aircraft; and (iii) in addition to (ii) above, investments include extension
of the terminal complex to permit the airport to cope with traffic growth (the
project).
(i) Base Case: Expenditures Limited to Essential Maintenance Only
2.        With expenditures limited to essential maintenance, conditions at
the airport will deteriorate rapidly in particular with regard to levels of
service provided to airlines. The runway would become overstressed and with-
drawal from service of wide-body aircraft would have to be contemplated soon
followed by withdrawal of B707 type aircraft a few years later. Replacement
of modern efficient aircraft having the lowest seat/mile costs by less effi-
cient aircraft combined with the need for these aircraft to make technical
stops en route from the originating regions or the need for tourists to make
transfer connections at alternative airports in the region will cause the
transport component in the total cost of the holiday package to increase by
US$50-lOO. In addition tourists would incur other incremental direct and
indirect costs on account of longer total travel time and expenses on account
of transfers at connecting airports.  With the aim of maintaining the flow of .
tourists and hence ensuring the continued viability of the industry, the
higher direct and indirect costs incurred by tourists will need to be compen-
sated with corresponding reductions in the Maldivian cost component of the
holiday package. In view of the precarious financial situation of the indus-
try the burden of this reduction will need to be absorbed through a reduction
in tax rates, causing rapidly diminishing government revenues.
3.        Furthermore, it is highly likely that even if alternative routings
are technically possible to substitute for the loss of the direct connections
with wide-body or B707 type aircraft, other limitations would hamper the
ability to bring in current flows of tourists through transfer points. Capa-
city limitations on feeder routes to and from regional transfer points
severely constrained the growth of the tourist industry in the 1970s when
total arrivals were much lower than at present. Government revenues would
therefore also suffer from a reduction in the number of tourist arrivals in
addition to the loss on account of lower tax rates. It is estimated that
under the maintenance only scenario, Government revenues would decline from
the current level of US$19.4 million to US$14.0 million by 1995 and to US$3.0
million by the year 2000 reducing further to US$1.0 million thereafter. The



ANNEX 4.3
- 64 -                           Page 2
facilities would be costly to maintain with maintenance costs running at
US$1.1 million per annum (Annex 4.1).
(ii) Alternative l Rehabilitation to B7071DC8 Type Aircraft Standard
4.        Under this alternative, investments are limited to soil stabiliza-
tion of the central section of the runway showing depressions, selective run-
way overlay, shoulder works and shore protection. The airport will continue
to be able to receive wide-body aircraft somewhat longer than under the main-
tenance only scenario, but over time it will become less and less acceptable
for such aircraft owing to lack of an instrument landing system and the limit-
ations and poor condition of the runway. Pressures will mount on airlines to
withdraw wide-body aircraft from service to Male. Replacement of wide-body
aircraft with less efficient aircraft would again translate into a higher air
fare component in the cost of the holiday package and increases in other
incidental costs which in turn will necessitate a corresponding reduction In
the Government's revenue from the tourist industry. This would begin to mani-
fest itself by 1995 when total Government revenues from the tourist industry
are estimated at about US$18.0 million compared to about US$14.0 million under
the maintenance only situation. By the year 2000, revenues would be down to
US$13.0 million compared to US$3.0 million under maintenance only. Total
investment under this alternative amounts to US$8.8 million including physical
contingencies and supervision. Maintenance costs would be slightly lower than
under the maintenance only case. Some major replacement works would need to
be programmed after ten years to maintain operations. Taking a 20-year evalu-
ation period, compared to the maintenance only case, this investment yields an
ERR of 33 percent.
(iii) Alternative 2: Upgrading to B747 Standard
5.        Under this alternative, the following would be provided:  the ILS,
full rehabilitation of the runway as well as minor runway extension, full run-
way overlay, fire tender, generators, airfield lighting and turning pads.
This level of investment would permit safe B747 operations but because of the
limitations Imposed by the terminal complex, tourist arrivals could not con-
tinue to expand and would stabilize at the level reached by 1992, generating
government revenues of about US$20.6 million. Furthermore, because the ter-
minal complex will be severely congested at such tourist flows during peak
times, causing considerable inconvenience to arriving and departing passen-
gers, the attractiveness of Maldives as a tourist destination will decline
relative to other destinations. In these circumstances, it would only be pos-
sible to maintain the number of tourist arrivals at its 1992 level by reducing
the price of the package in real terms (e.g., by maintaining nominal prices).
Again, as the industry would have difficulty in absorbing further price reduc-
tions because of the upgrading and investment effort which it is undertaking,
this would involve a gradual erosion of the government's revenues from tour-
ism. By the year 2000 the reduction in real terms would be about US$1.0 mil-
lion compared to the 1992 revenue level (US$20.6 million) and by the year 2005
the reduction in real terms would amount to US$2.5 million. The total cost of
this alternative amounts to US$16.7 million including physical contingencies
and supervision. Maintenance costs would be slightly lower than under the
previous alternative and after ten years again a substantial replacement



ANNEX 4.3
- 65 -                          Page 3
investment would be required. Takir.g a 20-year evaluation period, compared to
the without the project case (maintenance only), this level of investment
yields an ERR of 34 percent.
(iv) Alternative 3: B747 Upgrade (Alternative 2) plus Expansion of the
Terminal Complex (The Project)
6.        Under this alternative, in addition to the investments of the B747
upgrade, the terminal facilities would be expanded including the upgrading of
the water supply and sewerage systems, and the apron extension would be pro-
vided. With these investments, the airport should not pose a constraint to
the further growth of tourist arrivals and conditions at the airport would be
more in line with the overall improved standards which the tourist industry is
aiming to achieve. Apart from some limitations to growth in government reve-
nues during the next three years on account of the congested conditions which
will continue to prevail at the terminal, this alternative would allow govern-
ment revenues to grow at the same rate as total tourist arrivals. Starting
from the current level of US$19.4 million by the year 1995, total revenues
would amount to US$23.8 million, while by 2000 and 2005 revenues would be
US$27.9 million and US$30.8 million respectively. The total investment under
this alternative amounts to US$23.6 million including physical contingencies
and supervision. Maintenance cost would again be somewhat lower than under
the previous case and major replacement investments would have to be pro-
grammed after ten years. Taking an evaluation period of 20 7ears, compared to
the without the project case (maintenance only), this level of investment
yields an ERR of 36 percent.
7.        The evaluations, which show that these levels of investment have
ERR's on the order of 34 percent, indicate that the incremental levels of
investment are well justified and that the project as conceived yields the
highest return. They also indicate that in case of unforeseen adverse
developments the extension of the terminal complex could be delayed a few
years without substantially affecting the ERR of the investments undertaken as
part of alternative 2.



- 66 -                            ANNEX 5.1
REPUBLIC OF HALDIVES
HALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Maldives AirPorts Authority
Pro Forma Cash Flow Statement
(lR  Mlhlion)
1986    1987    1968    1989
Preliminary
Operating Revenues
Lanaing                                        4.9     6.6      5.9     6.6
Aircraft handlUag                              7.8     5.8      8.6    10.2
Pas service                                    6.0     8.9    10.3    10.7
Fuel commission                                3.0     9.6    12.7    16.0
Airport concessions and rents                  1.5     1.6      2.2     4.7
Miscellaneous                                  0.6     1.3      1.3     1.8
Total Revenues                            23.8    33.8    41.0    50.0
Operating Expenses
Fer:onnel costs                               4.2      5.0      5.7     5.1
Materials and supplies                         1.7     5.9      2.8     4.7
Purchased services and energy                  1.8     1.9      2.0     4.5
General and administrative                     3.6     3.7      5.0     4.4
Total Working Expenses                    14.3    16.5    20.5    21.7
Net Working Income                               9.5    17.3    20.5    28.3
Lesst Depreciation - Pro forma                  11.0    11.9    12.3    12.7
Net Operating Incomel(Loss)                     (1.5)    5.4      8.2    15.6
Non-operatina Items
lnteresit expense - Pro forma                  3.4     4.1      3.6     3.1
Insurance credit                               -      (6.1)   (1.4)      -
Met                                        3.4    it. 0     2.2      3.1
Net Income/(Loss)                             (4.9)    7.4      6.0    12.5
Adds  Depreciation - Pro forma                  11.0    11.9    12.3    12.7
Internal generation of funds - Pro forma         6.1    19.3    18.3    25.2
Borrowings - Pro forma                          18.8     -        -
Total Sources                              24.9    19.3    18.3    25.2
New investments                               20.6     2.2      4.8     4.8
Repayments of Principal (debt - Pro forma  14.8    18.1    18.1    18.1
Total Apglications                          35.5    20.3    22.9    22.9
Annual Surplusl(Deficit) - Pro forma           (10..6)   (1.0)   (4.6)    2.3
Allocation from tourism
e.g. bed-tax related revenues - Pro forma  10.6        1.0      4.6     -
Sources: MAA, MMA and Mission Estimates.
March 1990



- 67 -                    ANNEX 5.2(a)
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF HALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Schedule of Airport Charges
(As of April 1989)
Airport Landing Charges
1.  Day -         Not exceeding 20,000 kgs   - US$56.00
Over 20,000 kgs             -  US$2.80 per 1,000 kgs or part
thereof.
2.  Night -       Not exceeding 20,000 kgs   - US$60.00
Over 20,000 kgs             -  US$3.00 per 1,000 kgs or part
thereof.
II. Parking Charges
The use of apron for the first four hours is free. The
charges payable for the use of apron in excess of four hours
shall be 102 of the landing charges for every six hours or
part thereof.
III. Passenger Service Charges
Passengers embarking for any destination: US$7.00
IV. Use of Airconditioner
Airconditioning of the aircraft is free of charge. However,
if this facility is utilized outside the aircraft for any
reason, US$50.00 is levied each time, for a period not
exceeding 30 minutes and thereafter US$2.00 per minute in
use after the first 30 minutes.
V.   Use of Ground Power
This facility is free of charge.
VI. Fuel
Jet A-1 Fuel is available presently at US$0.387143 liter and this price
is subject to change without prior notice.
NB. For all non-scheduled flights no credit facility will be extended.
All payments should be made in cash prior to departure.
Continued/Page 2



ANNEX 5.2(a)
- 68 -                         Page2
Handling Charges
Night Stop      Turn Around    Transit
---       .---- USS ----------------
2,915 --         1,980 --      1,650 --        B 747
2,915 --         1,980 --      1,650 --        DC 10
2,915 --         1,980 --      1,650 --        L 1011
1,870 --         1,210 --        990 --        A 300           B-767
1,870 --         1,210 --        990 --        DC 8            B-757
1,540 --           990 --        825 --        B 707           MD-83
1,540--            9a'o--        825--         VC 10
1,540--            990--         825--         B 720
1,210 --           825 --        715 --        B 727           MD-87
1,210 --           825 --        715 --        B 737           C-130
1,210--            825--         715--         DC 9
1,210--            825--         715--         F 28
660--            440--         385--        HS 748
660--            440--         385--        F 27
C-130 Admin Charges
T   - $178.75
TA - $206.25
NS - $302.50
Source; MAA.
March 1990



ANNEX 5.2(b)
- 69 -
Sample Landing and Handling Charges
for Typical Aircraft at Male Airport
OPERATORS         A/C TYPE           LANDING                          HANDLING
DAY        NIGHT       TRANSIT     TURNAROUND
--------------------Uss ---------------------
B - 737     140.00       150.00      715.00          825.00
AIR LANKA          B - 747     997.00                 1,650.00        1,980.00
L - 1011    547.00       586.00    1,650.00        1,980.00
S I A             B - 747   1,042.00    1,116.00    1,650.00          1,980.00
CONDOR            DC- 10       728.00                 1,650.00        1,980.00
L - 1011    631.00                 1,650.00        1,980.00
L T U             B - 767      440.00                   990.00        1,210.00
B - 757     305.00       326.00      990.00        1,210.00
A - 300     389.00                   990.00        1,210.00
BALAIR            A - 310      389.00                   990.00        1.210.00
DC- 10      728.00                 1,650.00        1,980.00
B - 727     244.00                   715.00         825.00
EMIRATES          A - 310      389.00                   990.00       1,210.00
A - 300     389.00                   990.00       1,210.00
INDIAN AIRLINES   B - 737      147.00       157.00      715.00          825.00
P I A             A - 300      389.00       417.00      990.00       1,210.00
STERLING AIRWAYS  B - 757      305.00                   990.00       1,210.00
LAUDA AIR         L - 1011    547.00                  1,650.00       1,980.00
B - 767     440.00                   990.00       1,210.00
AIR EUROPE         B - 757     305.00                   990.00       1,210.00
UNIPLY            MD- 83       204.00                   825.00          990.00
ALITALIA           B - 747   1,042.00                 1,650.00       1,980.00
Sources MAA
March 1990



ANNEX 5.3
- 70 -                          Page 1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Financial Assumptions
1.        Operating Revenues.  Projections based on application of existing
user charges to forecast growth of 3 percent per annum for aircraft landing
and handling and 4 percent per annum for passengers (see para. 5.5 of the
text).
2.        Operating Expenses.  Projections based on price level increases of 9
percent per annum for personnel costs, and 7 percent per annum for other
operating expenses, excluding depreciation (see para. 5.5 of the text).
3.        Depreciation.  Annual depreciation of fixed assets is calculated on
the straight-line basis, and the following rates apply:
Land                                          None
Runways, aprons and jetties                     4?
Building and structures                         4?
Equipment - all kinds                          lOZ
For purposes of depreciation the project facilities and equipment will become
operational as follows:
Runways, aprons and jetties    In stages through 1991 and 1992
Buildings                       In stages through 1991, 1992 and 1993
LS/DIME equipment               1991
Fire-fighting equipment         1991
Generators                      1991
4.        Write-Offs.  The cost of engineering design, construction supervi-
sion, and technical assistance and training are written off in equal amounts
over a ten-year period starting in 1993.
5.        Cofinancing.
(a) IDA: Charges at the rate of 0.75 percent per annum on a Credit of
US$7.5 million equivalent. Life of the Credit 40 years including a
grace period of ten years.
(b) Kuwait Fund: Charges at the rate of 1.5 percent per annum on a Loan
of US$8.5 million equivalent. Life of the Loan 20 years including a
grace period of four years.
(c) OPEC Fund: Charges at the rate of 3.0 percent per annum on a Loan
of US$2.0 million equivalent. Life of the Loan 18 years including a
grace period of six years.



- 71 -                ~~~~ANNEX 5.3
- 71 -                         Page 2
(d) Islamic Development Bank: Charges at the rate of 2.25 percent per
annum on a Loan of US$2.0 million equivalentl/. Life of the Loan 25
years including a grace period of five years.
6.        Accounts Receivable.  Outstandings at year-end are calculated on the
basis of one month's average operating revenues.
7.        Accounts Payable.  Outstandings at year-end are calculated on the
basis of one month's average cash working expenses (materials and supplies,
purchased services and energy, and general and administrative) excluding per-
sonnel costs.
I/Subsequent to the negotiations of the IDA Credit, the IDB Loan was increased
to US$3.0 million equivalent. This involves an additional charge of US$22,500
equivalent starting 1993 and does not have any material impact on the
financial projections.



REPUBUC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIOT IP  DIM PROJECT
Maldives Airports Authority
Incom Statement
(Rpf sI l lon)
(preliminary)                  ProJected
For Year ending December 81,                1988    19      1968         1989         1990  1991   1992   1998  1994 199S
Oporatlna Revpues
Lending                                      4.9     6.8    S.9           6.6          6.8   7.0    7.2    7.4   7.6  7.8
Aircraft handling                            7.8     5.8    8.8          10.2         10.6  10.8   12.1   11.4  11.7  12.1
Pasengr service                              6.0     8.9   10.8          10.7         11.1  11.6   12.0   12.6  18.0 28.5
Fuel commission                              8.0     9.6   12.7          16.0         17.0  16.0   19.0   20.0  21.0 22.0
Airport concsslons and rents                 1.5     1.6    2.2           4.7          6.0   6.8    6.6    7.0   8.0  9.0
Miscellaneous                                0.6     1.8    1.8           1.8          2.0   2.2    2.4    2.6   2.8  3.0
Total Revenues                           28.8    88.8   41.0          60.0         62.4  54.9   67.8   60.9  64.1  67.4
2a!rst)!S Exporse
rorsonnoal costs                             4.2     5.0    6.7           6.1          6.6   6.1    6.C    7.2   7.8  8.6
Materials and supplies                       4.7     6.9    7.8           7.7          8.2   8.0    9.4   10.1  10.8  11.6
Purchsed services and energy                 1.8     1.9    2.0           4.6          4.8   5.2    6.6    6.9   6.8  6.7
Oenoral and administrative                   8.8     8.7    6.0           4.4          4.7   6.0    6.4    6.8   6.2  6.6
Total Cash Working Expenss               14.8    16.5   20.6          21.7         23.8  25.1   26.9   29.0  81.1 88.8
Depreciation - Existing fixed assets                                                  12.7  12.7   12.7   12.7  12.7  12.7
Depreciation - Project fixed assets                                                           2.0    6.7    9.7  10.1  10.1
Write-off$ - Project technical assistance                                                                    1.7   1.7  1.7
Subtotal                                                                           12.7  14.7   19.4   24.1  24.6 24.5
Total Operating Expenses                                                           U.0  89.8   46.8   58.1  55.6 57.8
Net operating Incae                         9.5L   17.8/  20.6k         28.8/s       16.4  15.1   11.0    7.8   8.6  9.6
Interest expense - Existing debt             A.4b   4.1/b  &.6b          8.12         2.6   2.1    1.8    1.5   1.8  1.0
- Project loan                                                         0.6   1.7    2.4    2.4   2.4  2.2
Subtotal                                                                            3.2   8.8    4.2    3.9   8.7  3.2
Not inome                                                                             18.2  11.8    6.8    8.9   4.8  8.4
Operating Ratio %                                                                     69    73      81      87    87   8e
Return on Het Fixed Assets X                                                           8.6   6.9    8.6    2.2   2.5  8.0         X
/a Excluding depreciation and interest expenses since under MAA's Government-oriented accounting practices these itens are considered
outside the scope of the budget.
Lb Existing debt is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and MMA who service it at no cost to MM.
Sourcs: MAA, MMA and Mission estimates.
March 1990



- 73  -                                ANt@X 6.6
REP1UV C Of MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Maldivee Airports Authority
Projected Stoament of Soureoo nd AppIletionae oY FuPn
million)
For Yeor ondd December 31,                   1990     1991     1002     1903     1994     1995
Sources of Fund.
Internol enoeratTon
Not opeirtin) incos                          10.4    15.1    11.0        7.0      8.5      9.6
Add:  Oeprec lotion avid write-offt          12.7    14.7    19.4    24.1    24.6    24.6
Subtotal                                  29.1    29.0    30.4    31.9    18.0    34.1
Borrow1n. - Project
Kuwit Fund                                   61.0    21.7       5.6
OPEC Fund                                    12.9      5.5
Ialamic Devolopmnt Dank                               12.5      6.9
IDA                                           6.1    88.6      27.8
Subtotal                                  72.0    73.8    80.?
Oveornent Contribution - PrOject              7.4    21.1    26.2
Total Sources                            106.6   124.2    03.3       81.0    88.0    34.1
Applicotione of Fund
laniicT h fixod osote                        71.3    619.6    60.9
Intangible - Technical osslotoneo             8.1      4.6      4.0
Subtotal                                  79.4    04.4    64.0
Debt Service
Repaysment oY prinipol - existing debt      16.1    16.9    18.7    18.7    13.7    18.7
Repayment of prlacipal - project loeans       -        2.4      4.9      6.4      6.4      0.4
16.1     10.8    16.0    20.1    20.1    20.1
Intoroat expoeno - existing det               2.6      2.1      1.0      1.6      1.6      1.0
Intereat oxpense - project lone               0.0      1.7      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.2
8.2      3.6      4.2      8.0      8.7      8.2
Subtotal                                  21.8    28.1    22.8    24.0    28.0    28.8
Change" in working capital (exl. cash)
- Incroaco/(dcrease)                        6.0      1.2      1.1      1.2      1.1      1.2
Total Applications                       106.6   116.7    60.0    26.2    24.0    24.5
Casb Position
Annual - suprluo/(doflClt)                    2.0      6.6      0.6      0.7      6.1       9.6
Opening balanco                               -        2.0      5.0      6.0      5.0      5.0
Leso: Paymento to the Governmnt               -       (2.5)    (6.5)    (0-7)    (0-1)   (9.6)
Closing balance                                2.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      6.0        .;,
Dobt Sorvice CovOraOg                         1.4      1.3      1.3       1.3      1.4      1.5
Source: misooln estiomtes.
March 1990



- 74 -                                   A       5.0
REP1SC Of IIALDIVE
VALE AIRPORT UPGRASIN PROJECT
Moldivoo Alrporta Authorit
Projected Balance She
off Il  leftO)
As at Docemboe 81,                           10       1001     1002     1008     1994      1005
ASSETS
Current Asseto
C00h                                          2.0      6.0      6.0      5.0      5.0       5.0
Aceounto receivable                           4.8      4.0      4.0      6.1      5.8      6.0
Inventory of spaere                           J.0      4.0      6.0      0.0      7.0      s.0
Subtoto                      I0.8    18.6    14:0                    16.1    17.8      16.0
Fixed Aseete
Exsti"n  ross fixed easeo                   208.4   208.4   208.4   208.4   20S.4   208.4
Lesc:  Accucmled dWreclation                 12.7    26.4      88.1    50.6      08.6    76.2
".t                                      190.7   170.0   106.8   152.0    189.9   127.2
Projoet ares fixed coseto                     -       70.0   208.1   221.6    221.8    221.9
Leo: Accumulatd dprmiction                   -        2.0      8.7     18.4    28.5    86.6
at                                         -        0.9   194.4   208.4    198.8   198.2
Total Noet Flxed Asost                   190.7   240.9   860.1    856.0    888.2    810.4
Work-in-progres                              79.4   102.9      8.        -         -        -
Subtotal                                 270.1   849.6    805.8    850.0 J88.2   810.4
Deferred Cheraw
TchricoI AWsoTTi tneo                                                   15.2     18.5    11.0
Total Aosots                             270.4    868.4   410.1   887.8    864.0    840.0
LIABILITIES AD MEM
current Fi 1litlos
Accounts payable end aecruolO                 1.5      1.8      1.7       1.0      1.9      2.0
Current portios of long-tere det             19.8    16.6    20.1    20.1    20.1    21.0
Subtotal                                  20.0    20.2       1.8      21.0   a2.0    28.0
Now-current Liabi I itlio
ExiTig lotg-term dab                         "0.2    85.6      71.0     6.1       44.4    80.7
Project long-tena ddeb                       609.6    18.0   170.8   168.0   157.5   150.2
Subtotal                                 160.8   228.5   242.1   222.0   201.9   190.0
OovermewRt'e E I
UooQoiNspIs  Ti    asy                       0 69.2    09.2    60.2    89.2    60.2    60.2
GovOrnment'e Contibutio  - projeOc            7.4    26.6    54.7    54.7    54.7    64.7
RetainOed eanrnle                            18.2    24.5    81.8    85.2    40.0    46.4
LOess:  Pymnts to tho Governmet               -       (2.6)    (0.0)   (15.7)   (28.8)   (83.4)
Subtotal                                  89.0   119.7   146.2   148.4   140.1   1386.9
Total Liabilities and E.ulty             279.4   368.4    410.1   387.3  384.0   340.8
L   0Opni"ng historicl velue of fixed assetS (Rf 208.4 million) lose opening balance of existing
long-tam debt (RV 184.2 il llIon).
SourceO: Misol est ctesoo.
MaOrch 1090



ANNEX 6
- 75 -                          Page 1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
HALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A. General and Sector Documents
1.   Statistical Yearbook of Maldives, 1989.
2.   -  Socio-Economic Development Strategies.
- External Assistance Priorities and Project Profiles.
Round Table Meeting, Geneva, April 1989.
3.   National Development Plan 1988-1990, Volumes 1 and 2.
4.   Annual Statistical Report on Tourism in Maldives, 1988 and 1989.
R. Documents Related to the ProJect
1.   Hale International Airport - Upgrading and Masterplan Report.
Volume 1, July 1986.
2.   Upgrading and Expansion of Male International Airport
Detailed Design and Cost Estimate Report
Section A - Utilities and Terminal Building.
Section B - Aircraft Pavements, Airfield Lighting.
Fire Fighting Equipment.
Section C - Apron in Alternative Location
Power Supply
October 1989
3.   Upgrading and Zxpansion of Male International Airport.
Cost Estimate Amendment
Grouping of Project Components
Tentative Implementation Schedule
December 1989
4.   Male International Airport Upgrading Project
Minutes of the discussions between the World Bank Appraisal Mission
and the Government of Maldives
February 20, 1989
5.   Proposed Hale Airport Upgrading Project - Appraisal Hission
Aide Memoire
February 20, 1989
6.   Financial Tables - Work Sheets



- 76 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 2
7.   Haldives Airport Authority - Memorandum to Files dated June 1, 1989
February 20, 1989
8.   Note on Male Airport Facilities.



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Organization Chart
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MALDIVES AIRPORTS AUTORIBY
| DIREC,TOR 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L AIPORTFACITATION COMMITE| 
AIRPORT EMERGENCY COMMITEE
rMXALDIVES INFLIGHt CATERING PTE LTD  1 --    -
ADLMJNISTRATIVE       FINANCIAL SECTION      PFIOJECTS SECTION      TECHNICAL SERVICES    OPERATIONAL SERVICES      GROUND SERVICES
SECTION                                                      jSECTION                        SECTION         f       SECTION
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR     ASSISTANT DIRECTOR      ASSISTANT DIRECTOR     ASSISTANT DIRECTOR       DEPUTY DIRECTORf      ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
tn SmTwmnVE            j     PURCH G INGELECTRONICS UNI                                            AIR TRAFFIC                    GROUND OPERATIONS
OFFICE    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~LETOIC  NrSERVICES UNIT   JUNIT
RIVE.POWER GEN. C#OAUINCIATION
GAN ADMWNISTRA FRVE         REVENUE                                 _         PAWNT HOUN         OPRTIONS    |        .TOR TRANSRPRT
OFFICE                                            R~~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~~~~~~OWER HOUSE  UNIT   UI
1 l                         |   POWER GEN.
_     PERSONNEL  e       EBUDGET     I                                 MAINT.UNIT           SECURITY UNIT         FUEL INSTALLATION
_______________                                                           ELECTRICAL
|    ACCOUNTS A& |                       |  CIVIL WORKS UNIT  |  rFIRE AND RESCUE
STATISTICS    j                        1  CIVIL MAINTENA* c j  1UNIT
|   AIR llCANSPORT                                         IVL WORKS UN                     GENERAL MANTENANCE
SECTION                                                   CAPENTRY                             SECTION
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                                                           I                 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
CIVIL WORKS UNIlT 
WATER SUPPLY
FUGHT SCHEDUUNG
CML WORKS UNIT
MACHINING
TRAINING &                                                 & WELDING I T
MANPOWER                                                           3EW4&579A
A   DEVELOPMENT
MtARCH1t990'



RE'UBLIC OF MALDIVES
MALE AIRPORT UPGRADING PROJECT
Project Iaplementation Schedule
1990                                 1991                                1992
Doccipton           2   341  1 67 89110f111 21              3     687891 12  1 2  344 56  7 8  9301112     12
IS/DME Project   - Asard/Mobilix
Subs0il Stabili°as      CoaIIt/Co_p                   - -  -  -  -_ -
Shore Protectiorj  - Averdfl5obl Iz
Runway             - Awardf/obiliz
Over lay/Tey/Roads  - Ray oxt. south
- Overjoy D.A.
- Overlay T.F.A.
- Overlay Rwy
- TwY
- Intall Airfield
lighting, oorkings
Apron/Pods         - Auord/hobilis
Oraio/Seeerage     - Turning pod couth
- Turning pod north 
- Apron
-Drainage
Airfield           - Award/Mobili:
Lighting           - Supply A.F.L.
Supply/intall         O Osnoretors
Torminal bullding/   Oeign acowd
Landeido f  oaciity   eview
-Ordering
-Del I very
Supply Fir-Fighting                                                                                                                                      N
Vehilce                                                                  i-



IBRO 22127
.                   72°               713o~~~~~A         715°
Bomb" a
INDIA
',    NORTH THILADHUNMATHI-
°  .W*   flfnim60dhoo
SOUTH THILADHUNMATHI
/5 iSRI LANKA                 * j X        NORTH MILADHUNMADULU
/SRI LANKA I5*
Colombo°                               *
9    SOUTH MILADHUNMADULU
MALDIVES           NORTH MAALHOSMADULU
I ,,59 ^ FAADHIPPOLHU
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,
60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
SOUTH
MAAIHOSMADULU
a ^* MALE
*          #54*
40                                       ARI   *                                                  40!
FEIDHU
NORTH NILANDHE -
_30  _^30
SOUTH NILANDHE    i        MULAKATHOLHU
MALDIVES               KOLHUMADULU   ..       /
-2°      MALE AIRPORT                                 -           HADHHUNMATH
UPGRADING PROJECT                               'HU
*    National Capital
6)   International Airport
+    Airfields
-10             Administrative Atolls
NORTH HUVADHU
Huvaclhu
(proposed) .f 
SOUTH HUVADHU
KILOMETEST   M "wd
o      so      ICC    11                                          0t.*,00n..
FOAMMULAH
ADDU                                 e   * -
&SJIJS~ ~ ~                                  ._I SM   c 
710               720               730               740                  °
MARCH 1990



