Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2143 MAL
                 (Male Airport Upgrading Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 11, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2143 MAL
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   by agreement dated November 18, 1987 (the Kuwait Fund
Loan Agreement), Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (Kuwait
Fund) has agreed to make a loan (the Kuwait Fund Loan) to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of 2,500,000 Kuwaiti
Dinars to assist in financing the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement;
      (C)   by agreement dated March 13, 1988 (the OPEC Loan Agree-
ment), the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has
agreed to make a loan (the OPEC Loan) to the Borrower in an aggre-
Page  2
gate principal amount of $2,000,000 to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the OPEC Loan
Agreement;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Islamic
Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount of about
2,400,000 Islamic Dinars to assist in financing part of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MAA" means the Maldives Airports Authority; and
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 5,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
in Maldives Monetary Authority on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
Page  3
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 com-
mencing October 15, 2000 and ending April 15, 2030. Each installment
to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2010 shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MAA with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering, environmental and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
Page  4
vices and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accord-
ance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, or cause to be retained, until at least
                   one year after the Association has received the
                   audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                   last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                   records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                   receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   includ-ed in the annual audit referred to in
                   para-graph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by  said auditors as to whether the statements
                   of expen-diture submitted during such fiscal
                   year, toge-ther with the procedures and internal
Page  5
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause MAA to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of MAA.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause MAA, from January 1, 1993, to:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
                   ments (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
                   priate auditing principles consistently applied,
                   by independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than nine months after
                   the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                   of its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning such records, accounts,
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Associa-tion shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      Section 4.03. With effect from January 1, 1993, the Borrower
shall enable MAA through airport tariffs, annually, to generate:
      (a)   revenues sufficient to cover all airport-related
operating expenses, including maintenance and depreciation pro-
visions satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   funds internally sufficient to cover (i) annual debt
service requirements of all existing and any new, airport-related
debt, including debt relating to the Project, (ii) annual working
capital requirements, and (iii) payments to the Borrower as reason-
ably determined, annually, by the Borrower.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1990, or such later date as the Asso-
ciation may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
Page  6
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Association that:
                   (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                         or prematuring is not caused by the
                         failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                         its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                         available to the Borrower from other
                         sources on terms and conditions consistent
                         with the obligations of the Borrower under
                         this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Project Implementation Unit referred to in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 4 hereto, shall have been established and its
Project Director and Procurement Officer shall be in post.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Male
            Maldives
            FAX:                         Telex:
                  324432                   66032
                  FINANCE                  FINANCE
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
Page  7
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
                         By /s/ Hussein Manikfan
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit
                       Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil works       4,170,000     100%
      for Part A (2)
      and (3) of the
      Project
(2)   Equipment (includ-           640,000      100% of foreign
      ing installation)                         expenditures
      for Parts G and H
      of the Project
(3)   Technical                    190,000      100%
      assistance
      for Part I of
      the Project
(4)   Unallocated                  900,000
      TOTAL                      5,900,000
                                 =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
Page  8
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the airport at
Male in order to maintain the viability and growth potential of the
key sector of the economy, tourism.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      Rehabilitation and extension (to about 3,200 m) of the exist-
ing runway through:
      1.    stabilization of two sections;
      2.    reconstruction of a section (about 170 m) of the ori-
            ginal runway together with the construction of a taxiway
            to the apron in asphaltic cement concrete;
      3.    application of a levelling course and an overlay in
            asphaltic cement concrete; and
      4.    rebuilding of the shoulders.
Part B:
      Construction of portland cement concrete turning pads at each
end of the runway.
Part C:
      Improvement of the aircraft parking apron through:
      1.    an extension to the south of the existing apron; and
      2.    installation of concrete drains.
Part D:
      Installation of heavy duty steel sheet piles to protect the
seawall at critical stretches around the airport island.
Part E:
      Improvement of the terminal complex through:
      1.    extension and modification of passenger handling
            facilities;
      2.    renovation and expansion of the water supply system; and
      3.    upgrading of the domestic and aircraft sewage systems.
Part F:
      Improvement of navigation aids including the installation of
an instrument landing system and airfield lighting.
Part G:
      Increasing the capacity of the airport island power supply
system by the provision and installation of two diesel generator
sets of about 500 kw capacity each.
Part H:
Page  9
      Improving airport safety by the provision of a large aircraft
fire fighting vehicle.
Part I:
      Strengthening the capabilities of MAA by providing technical
assistance relating to accounting, financial and management informa-
tion systems, including training programs, consultants' services,
and related computers and accounting software.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    The fire fighting vehicle may be procured under a contract
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items of data processing equipment, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Contracts for generators may be awarded after direct negotia-
tions with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $40,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
Page  10
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-dures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall cause the Project to be implemented through
a special Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within MAA. The PIU
shall be headed by a Project Director and assisted by an Engineer,
a Procurement Officer and a Management Accountant.
2.    In order to carry out Part I of the Project and improve the
accounting capabilities of MAA, the Borrower shall: (a) engage,
or cause to be engaged, by January 1, 1991: (i) an accountant/
financial consultant to design and develop, and assist in the
implementation within MAA of a double-entry accrual and activity
based accounting system; and (ii) a qualified and experienced
management accountant; (b) cause the Management Accountant within
the PIU to act as counterpart for the activities in (a) above, and
to be responsible for the development and implementation of the new
accounting system as well as the subsequent management of it; and
(c) based on the recommendation of the consultants in (a) above
implement the new accounting, financial and management information
systems by January 1, 1993, with adequate numbers of trained staff.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and depo-
sited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
Page  11
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Bor-
rower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pur-
                   suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which reple-
                   nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, the Association shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remain-
ing unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  12
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
