Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11077
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 834-SU)
AUGUST 31, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Rtgional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal:    US$ 1.00 = LSd 0.40
LSd 1.00 = US$ 2.50
PCR:          US$ 1.00 = LSd 4.50
The US$ credit amounts In this report should
be understood to mean US$ equivalent.
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC           Agricultural Research Corporation
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
GOS           Govemment of Sudan
ILCA          International Livestock Center for Africa
MOAR          Ministry of Animal Resources
PCR           Project Completion Report
PM            Project Management
PMU           Project Managemerit Unit
PSU           Project Support Unit
WSDC          Western Savannah Development Corporation
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)        = 10,000 m2    = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 feddan (fd)         = 1.04 ac      = 0.42 ha
1 ha                  = 2.38 fd
1 square kilometer    = 100 ha
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D C. 20.433
U.S.A.
Office of Drectlor-Cereral
Operatins Evaluation
August 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on SUDAN - Agricultural
Research Proiect (Credit 834-SU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sudan: Agricultural Research Project
(Credit 834-SU)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 834-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane No.
PREFACE ..........................................................                              i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................                              iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity.                                                                   1
Background.                                                                         1
Project Design and Organization.                                                    2
Project Objectives and Description.                                                 3
Project Implementation.                                                             4
Project Results.                                                                    6
Sustainability.                                                                     7
Donor Performance.                                                                  7
Borrower Performance.                                                               8
Project Relationships.                                                              8
Consultants.                                                                        9
Documentation and data.                                                             9
Lessons.                                                                            9
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                         .......    11
Linkages with ARC  ..........................................                      11
Project Management(PM) ......................................                      11
Linkages with Extension .......................................                    12
Donor Performance  ..........................................                      12
Lessons Learned .............................................                      12
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..............                ..     .................      14
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ............................                14
2. Project Timetable ..........................................                    15
3. Credit Disbursement ........................................                    16
4. Project Costs and Financing ..................................                  17
5. Project Results .............................................                   19
6. Status of Covenants ........................................                    22
7. Use of Bank Resources  .....................................                    23
Maps IBRD 129551R, 12956R, 12957R, 12958R, 12959R, 13288R, 13332R2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLEMON REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 834-SU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Research Project in
Sudan, for which Credit 834-SU in the amount equivalent to US$15 million was approved on June
29, 1978. The actual closing date was December 31, 1987, two and a half years behind schedule. The
last disbursement was made on June 27, 1988. US$1.5 million of the credit was canceled. USAID
also provided cofinancing of US$20 million.
'Te PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Eastern Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
Project in November of 1988 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; supervision
mission reports; the initial briefings and issues papers; correspondence between the Bank, the
Government of the Sudan (GOS), and the co-financier (USAID); the supervision mission reports of
related Bank Projects, i.e., the Westem Savannah Project II (Cr. 1640-SU), the Southem Kordofan
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1867-SU) and the Agricultural Research, Extension and
Training Project (Cr. 1639-SU); and intemal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 834-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.      The Project was intended to facilitate the generation of new agricultural technology in
Sudan's western region, through establishment of a research capability in Kordofan and Darfur
regions, focussed on livestock and crop production systems and on water and land use management
improvements. The objective was not only to establish physical research station facilities (including
upgrading existing ones) and recruit and train research scientists in appropriate specialties, but also
to initiate research programs in five distinct ecological zones that would facilitate increased
production by traditional transhumant/rainfed crop producers while preventing -- and indeed reversing
-- the further degradation of an already deteriorated resource base.
Project Design and Preparation
2.      Sudan's western region contains 30 percent of the country's population and 45 percent of
the cattle. It produces most of the country's millet, about half the sesame, one third of the
groundnut, nearly a fifth of the sorghum and half of the gum arabic. However, up to 1977,
agricultural research led by the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) was preoccupied by
irrigated agriculture. In that year, the western region accounted for only 5 percent of the total
expenditures on agricultural research. In the mid-1970s, a joint team of Sudanese scientists and
international consultants prepared a master plan for strengthening the national capacity for research
and development of improved technology. The Agricultural Research Project was proposed and
designed to fit into this master plan, making a major contribution to research on the neglected rainfed
areas of western Sudan.
3.      The research supported by the project was to be of an integrated farming systems type
rather than the traditional commodity and disciplinary orientation of the then-existing national
research system. Two major agrarian systems were identified as foci for the research programs: (i)
arid and semi-arid livestock production at the desert fringe, and (ii) integrated livestock and crop
production.  The preparation of the project was thorough. However, at appraisal no specific
agreements were included on a timetable for implementation of the master plan, nor was there an



I iV -
examination of the resources needed to carry it out. This proved to be a grave oversight when GOS
failed to adopt the agreed master plan, which was the basis for the project.
4.      The project was to be conducted in two stages: first the construction, procurement of goods
and staffing for research facilities; second the launching of research programs. However, the design
seriously underestimated the time needed to establish the physical facilities planned, and the logistical
difficulties of acquiring construction materials, fuel, GOS budgetary support, and the foreign exchange
allocation for necessary inputs. The time required for completion of advanced degree training was
also underestimated.
Project Implementation
5.      During negotiations, the project's conceptual foundation was clearly understood by the
Sudanese agencies involved and the financiers. However, soon after effectiveness, there emerged
different views on the underlying supportive needs and the main thrust of the project. The Bank
considered the project an integral part of the master plan. The plan, although accepted in principle
by GOS, was never put into effect. USAID's project documents focussed exclusively on increasing
research capability in the west. Furthermore, the technical assistance team proposed major changes
in 1981, which included shifting the location of the project headquarters, increasing support staff,
canceling the ARC headquarters complex at Khartoum, and adding more civil works and facilities at
research stations. These amendments were agreed among the parties. The total cost therefore
increased 50 percent, to be substantially financed by USAID. The projected recurrent costs also
increased considerably.
6.      Completion of the project construction was four years delayed due to various problems
involved in managing a large construction program in Sudan, such as management of the joint local
contractors, drought induced bans on firewood and water use, transportation difficulties, different
procurement rules of the cofinanciers, lack of skilled workers, and repeated currency devaluation.
An underestimate in the time required for degree training resulted in delays in research program
stafring. In addition, it was difficult to attract staff to the field stations from the national research
establishment, as the amenities were not sufficient for sustaining families with all the necessary
support.
7.      The performance of the technical assistance component was good. Regular reporting and
the preparation of project generated publications were done efficiently. However, the technical
assistance contract was terminated in 1985 and USAID did not provide further support. This caused
difficulties in later project implementation.
Project Results
8.      Despite the implementation problems, the project achieved its objectives of establishment
of the physical research facilities, the initial staffing of half of them with project trained scientists, and
the establishment of baseline research and initial work plans to guide the formulation of an integrated
research program. At completion, the stations at El Obeid and Kadugli were staffed and functioning



. v .
well. The Darfur sub-stations were not staffed. The full complement of research scientists envisioned
to complete the staffing did not materialize.
9.       The project trained 6 PhDs and 8 MScs, and produced 55 reports, which were found to be
generally satisfactory. These reports are on various topics including the socio-economic aspects of
production and consumption, the input and output marketing infrastructure, and scientific agricultural
trials. Many are of high quality and contribute to the scientific purposes for which the stations were
established.   Some of the research trials produced useful results.  At the Kadugli station,
considerable progress was made on sedentary systems research. This included the identification of
short maturity sorghum varieties, introduction of legumes and introduction of improved field practices.
At the El Obeid station the main focus was on soil characteristics and water management and
conservation activities. These included mulching and residue management, soil amendments and
cultural practices. A wide range of crop varieties was also introduced into the Kordofan Region.
However, mechanisms for transferring the technologies developed were less well considered.
Sustainability
10.     The project was the first one in Africa to be designed as a 'self-standing" research project.
It can be seen as an innovative effort, supportive of several on-going development projects in the
region. Unfortunately, .he prospects of project sustainability appeared mixed. The project did not
have a direct and clear relationship to the national research program, and GOS was not ready to
proceed with restructuring national agricultural research towards a farm systems mode. Budget
support from ARC therefore is questionable. Those research stations already functioning are likely
to continue, while the stations in Darfur would depend on the ARC and assistance through the
second Western Savannah Project (Cr.1640-Su). Incentives to attract scientists to the western region
have not been addressed, and the severe constraints imposed by the shortage of both local funding
and foreign exchange does not bode well for retention of competent and motivated scientists.
Lessons Learned
11.     The lessons learned are summarized below:
(a) Consensus on sector strategy. Where a project is designed to support a fundamental
change of sector/subsector strategy, and the feasibility of such changes has been
demonstrated, milestones in the implementation of the change and related
disbursement conditionality should be built into the credit.
(b) Co-financier arrangements. Good coordination between the cofinanciers in terms of
strategy and implementation procedures is essential to project success.
(c) Recurrent cost projections. While recurrent cost projections were done, and were
then revised upwards, there was an overly-optimistic set of assumptions about the
capability or willingness of the GOS to assume them.



-vi-
(d) Time horizons in project desiffn. The time projected for physical construction and
research scientist training were too short. At least two or three more years were
necessary to establish the required facilities before launching a research program.
(e) Technical assistance. University-based technical assistance of the sort that USAID
provided is ideal for such purposes as collaborative scientific research. However,
where institution-building is a central and prior activity--involving both physical
construction and the recruitment of scientists and domestic bureaucratic-political
support--it is as important to incorporate into the technical assistance a management
and logistics capacity.
(f)  Retention. A final lesson concerns the need to pay far more attention initially to the
issue of retention, especially of highly qualified scientific staff. This was a major issue
at the negotiations and effectiveness stages, and yet by completion had still not been
addressed satisfactorily.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 834-SU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.1     Project Identity
Name              Agricultural Research Project
Credit Number     834-SU
RVP Unit          Africa Region
Country           Sudan
Sector/Subsector    Agriculture/Research
BACKGROUND
2.1     Agriculture Sector and Strategy. Sudan is the largest country in Africa. Of the 2.5 million
sq. km, only 84 million ha or 34% are potentially cultivable, and only 9 million ha had been developed
by 1987. There are three main types of agriculture. Irrigated agriculture is limited to the area
between and on either side of the Blue and White Nile rivers and smaller areas associated with the
Atbara and Rahad tributaries. Main crops grown under irrigation are cotton, sugarcane and wheat,
other grains, and vegetables. On the heavier non-irrigated soils in the east, and partly in the central
areas, extensive mechanized agriculture is practiced, with the main crops being sorghum and sesame.
In part of the central and all of the western regions, and also in the southern part of the country,
subsistence agriculture based on traditional methods of cultivation is dominant. Main crops are millet
and sorghum in the west; and sorghum, maize and cassava in the south. In the savannah areas of the
west, crop/livestock farming and pastoralism are particularly important.
2.2     Increased production from both the irrigated and traditional rainfed sectors is the prime
objective of Sudan's agricultural strategy. The Six Year Development Plan (1977-83) at the time of
project identification emphasized the need to correct the wide variances between the output of the
commercial sector (irrigated and mechanized rainfed) and the large subsistence sector, while at the
same time promoting improvements in both. Public investment at the time of project preparation
was therefore directed, firstly at the expansion of wheat and sugar production to remove the necessity
for imports; secondly at increasing production of medium staple cotton and groundnuts to increase
exports; and thirdly at expanding mechanized farming to produce more sorghum and sesame. To help
redress the regional disparities in incomes, Government attached importance to the improvement of
subsistence agriculture in rainfed areas.
2.3     As part of its strategy, Government also accorded high priority to launching development
programs for subsistence cultivators and pastoralists in the western region. It was thought that this



- 2 -
savannah belt was most suited to accelerated development of rainfed agriculture, and that attaining
the planned increases in sorghum, groundnut and sesame, as well as better crop/livestock integration,
depended on development initiatives in these areas. It was also realized that success in such
initiatives depended on the development, transfer and adoption of improved technical packages in
crop and livestock production, and that those would only flow from a significantly strengthened
research program for rainfed agriculture.
2.4     Agricultural Research in Western Sudan. Agricultural research in the Sudan started in
1905 with the establishment of the Shambat Research Station, near Khartoum, mainly to generate
technology for the newly irrigated areas in the Gezira. Additional research stations were subsequently
established, and in 1967 the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) was set up. It was given
primary responsibility for national research policies and programs and for supervising the research
station network. Up to 1977, almost all research resources were focussed on irrigated agriculture;
in that year the western Sudan accounted for only 5% of the total expenditures on agricultural
research, with small stations at El Obeid (gum arabic) and Ghazala Gawazat (cattle and range). Such
limited research activities belied the relative importance of rainfed agriculture in these areas. In 1977
it was estimated that this region contained about 30% of the Sudan's population and 45% of the
cattle; it produced most of the millet, about half the sesame, one third of the groundnuts, nearly a
fifth of the sorghum and half of the gum arabic.
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
2.5     Preparation of the Agricultural Research Project started in 1976 when, as follow-up of an
international workshop on agricultural research, a joint team of Sudanese scientists and international
consultants prepared a master plan for strengthening the national capability for research and
development of improved technology (the "Joint Team Report"). The project was proposed and
designed to fit into this master plan, making a major contribution to research on the neglected rainfed
areas. A Bank appraisal mission visited the Sudan in October, 1977 and agreement was reached on
project concept, scope and design. The final Credit negotiations, held in Khartoum in 1978, were also
attended by USAID, which had been requested by the GOS to fund the Project's technical assistance
component. A separate Project Grant Agreement was signed between GOS and USAID in
September, 1978.
2.6     During negotiations, the Project's conceptual foundation was clearly understood by the
Sudanese agencies involved and the financiers. However, almost from the point of effectiveness there
emerged some divergence in views on the underlying supportive needs and the main thrust of the
Project. The Bank considered the Project an integral part of the agreed overall research master plan.
The latter, although accepted in principle by GOS, was never put into effect. USAID's Project
documents focussed exclusively on increasing research capability in the west, in line with its then-
central focus on increasing resource flows to the west and the south and curtailing assistance to the
already-favored centraUGezira region. The latter was the basis for the design changes described in
para. 14. These resulted in a project scope (and subsequent recurrent cost implications) which with
the benefit of hindsight are difficult to rationalize, within the framework of the research priorities and
the finances available in total for agricultural research in the Sudan.



-3-
2.7         The Project was one of the first in Africa to be designed as a "self-standing" research
project; that is, not as a component of a regional or commodity-specific agricultural research effort.
It can therefore be seen as an innovative effort, supportive of several on-going development projects
in the region (such as the Western Savannah Project). This is different from the approach of the
1970s, when research was carried out as a component to support the activities of a single project.
Unfortunately, the lack of a direct and clear relationship to the National Research Program, and the
inability of GOS to proceed with the envisaged restructuring of the framework for national
agricultural research, produced difficulties for the Project in implementation and especially
sustainability that were ultimately similar to those faced by the earlier project component type
research efforts.
2.8      The Project was well-prepared but proved to be too complex in light of the logistical
difficulties which emerged. The project was to be conducted in two stages: first the construction,
procurement of goods and staffing for research facilities, and secondly the launching of research
programs. However, the design seriously underestimated the time needed to establish the physical
facilities planned, and the logistical difficulties of acquiring construction materials, fuel, GOS
budgetary support, and the foreign exchange allocations for necessary inputs. These obstacles were
further aggravated by the political turbulence in the country. Also, the time required for completion
of advanced degree training was underestimated.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.9      Project Objectives.  The Project was intended to facilitate the generation of new
agricultural technology in the west, through establishment of a research capability in Kordofan and
Darfur regions, focussed on livestock and crop production systems and on water and land use
management improvements. The objective was not only to establish physical research station facilities
(including upgrading existing ones) and recruit and train research scientists in appropriate specialties,
but also to initiate research programs in five distinct ecological zones that would facilitate increased
production by traditional transhumant/rainfed crop producers while preventing---and indeed reversing-
-the further degradation of an already deteriorated resource base. Two major agrarian systems were
identified as foci for the research programs:
o arid and semi-arid livestock production at the desert fringe
o   integrated livestock and crop production
2.10     Throughout the planning and implementation stages it was intended that the research be
of an integrated, farming-systems type rather than the traditional commodity and disciplinary
orientation of the then-existing national research system.
2.11     Project Components. The Project's central components were:
o   Construction of an ARC headquarters office building in Khartoum, to allow the ARC
to relocate from Wad Medani (the heart of the Gezira irrigation scheme) and thus to
divorce the ARC somewhat from its hitherto sole preoccupation with irrigated



agriculture. Provision was also made for strengthening the ARC headquarters through
the establishment of a Project Support Unit and a Planning Evaluation Unit.
O   Development of an ARC research center and regional headquarters at Nyala and of
research stations at El Obeid, Kadugli and El Fasher, including housing, offices,
laboratories, farm buildings, landscaping, fencing, equipment and fumiture. Purchase
of 7 mobile research units, 54 vehicles, 5 tractors and implements.
o   Conducting production systems research at el Obeid (integrated crop/livestock on non-
cracking clays); at Kadugli (integrated crop/livestock on cracking clays); at el Fasher
(arid livestock); and at Ghazala Gawazat (integrated crop/livestock and semi-arid
livestock on stabilized sands) in cooperation with the Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC).
o   Purchase of an aircraft to facilitate travel from station to station and movement of
necessary items over the vast distances involved.
o   Employment of 46 scientists (10 of which were to be intemationally recruited for a
total of 49 man-years), 80 man-months of short-term consultancy and about 250
support staff.
o   Funds for contract research by institutions other than ARC, 28 research fellowships,
and attendance by Sudanese scientists at intemational conferences.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.12    In spite of difficulties encountered in meeting conditions of effectiveness (incentive scheme
for Project Sudanese staff and legal opinion), project implementation initially proceeded smoothly.
Technical assistance personnel for the Project Support Unit (PSU), funded through USAID and
coming from a consortium of westem US universities, were in place quickly; training programs were
initiated; civil works construction began.
2.13    Immediately after the Project became effective in mid-1980 the technical assistance team
proposed major changes, which included a shift of Project headquarters from Nyala to El Obeid,
increases in support staff, changes in technical assistance staffing, deletion of the ARC headquarters
complex at Khartoum (substituting a Project Support Unit there instead), additional civil works and
facilities at research stations, and inclusion of the facility at Ghazala Gawazat into the research station
network. These amendments in the Project documents were agreed among the parties in April, 1981.
Due to these changes and high cost escalations, the estimated total cost increased by 50% (to US$67
million), the increase to be substantially financed by USAID (see Table 4B).
2.14    Progress on physical facilities lagged due to the many and major problems involved in
managing the large construction program which was distributed widely across the western Sudan. The
main problems were related to the management of the joint local contractors, drought-induced bans
on firewood and water use, transportation and fuel shortages, delays in the import of building
materials, lack of skilled manpower and repeated currency devaluations. Completion of the



- 5 -
construction program was delayed to the end of 1987 (rather than the projected 1983). At
completion, only the El Obeid and Kadugli stations were staffed; the Darfur sub-stations (El Fasher
and Ghazala Gawazat) remained unstaffed, and the latter was under jurisdictional dispute with the
Ministry of Animal Resources (MOAR).
2.15    Cumbersome procurement procedures also led to the delay in construction. These
included: (a) arduous and extremely bureaucratic GOS import procedures; (b) the banning of the
importation of certain building materials by GOS; and (c) the incompatible rules and regulations of
IDA and USAID regarding the source of imported shipments. In the SAR, it was foreseen that
cofinancing would be disbursed on separate items on a parallel basis. When the project documents
were amended, the cofinancing agency also undertook part of the funding for the construction
program. This raised the problem of incompatibility in the eligibility of countries for international
competitive bidding. Special waivers had to be obtained to allow the procurement to proceed.
2.16    Strengthening of ARC headquarters through the establishment of a Planning and
Evaluation Unit and construction of a headquarters building were explicit Project components.
However, when the DCA was amended in 1981 both were essentially deleted, although a post of
Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor was maintained to create, at least temporarily, a capacity
for generating an integrated agricultural research plan for the west. These decisions further
weakened the linkages of the Project with the national research network, which had serious
implications for budgetary support from the ARC, and thus for sustainability.
2.17    The performance of the technical assistance component was good. Regular reporting and
the preparation of project-generated publications was done efficiently. However, the technical
assistance contract terminated in 1985 and USAID did not provide further support. This resulted in
the dismantling of the PSU and had an adverse impact on the research programs then underway,
which were beginning to show results. Research trials at Kadugli produced some useful information
and some new promising varieties; trials in El Obeid were also undertaken but tended to be wiped
out by drought (two of the four years were destroyed).
2.18    Sudanese were identified and sent for long-term training courses in appropriate specialties.
An underestimate in the time required for advanced degree training resulted in delays in research
program staffing by Sudanese scientists. Further timing miscalculations relate to the absence of a
large number of the very scarce Sudanese scientists, who were to be sent for long-term training while
the initial baseline data and research emphasis planning was underway, and who were then back in
place for an insufficient period before technical assistance was withdrawn. This was aggravated by
the relatively abrupt termination of the technical assistance, which USAID declined to extend at the
end of the initial contract. In addition, it was difficult to attract staff to the field stations from the
national research establishment, as the amenities were not sufficient for sustaining families with all
the necessary support (e.g. health and educational facilities).
2.19    The project closed on December 31, 1987, two and a half years behind schedule. Total
project costs were $49 million, about 8 percent over the appraisal estimate. An undisbursed balance
of $1.5 million was canceled.



-6-
PROJECT RESULTS
2.20    The Project achieved its objectives of establishment of the physical research facilities (with
a 3-4 year lag), the initial staffing of half of them with Project-trained scientists, and the establishment
of baseline research and initial work plans to guide the formulation of an integrated research plan.
The full complement of research scientists envisioned to complete the staffing did not materialize.
Six PhDs and eight MScs were produced; all these staff returned to the Project. At completion, the
Project management entity in Khartoum and the stations in Kadugli and El Obeid were functioning
well and producing annual work plans and research reports, although the publications of these
stopped with the contract completion (i.e., end-1985).
2.21    The inculcation of an integrated farming systems approach to research in the western
region was not assured, particularly in the unstaffed facilities in Darfur (one of the sub-stations,
Ghazala Gawazat, became the target of a struggle for control between ARC and the MOAR which
only was resolved in ARC's favor in 1989). Other Bank projects (esp. Western Savannah Project II,
Cr. 1640-SU) were designed to incorporate follow-on assistance for this effort in Darfur. A research
strategy produced for Darfur in May, 1985, indicated at least a well-understood concept of integrated
research planning, and an intention to persevere in this mode, albeit with uncertain resources.
2.22    The Project produced a total of 55 reports, which were found to be generally satisfactory
by the PCR mission. Some of them are administrative (e.g., annual work plan summaries), some
planning and strategy documents and some actual research findings. Of those reviewed, many were
the work of the technical assistance personnel, focussing on a wide variety of topics including the
socio-economic aspects of production and consumption, the input and output marketing
infrastructure, and of course scientific agricultural trials. Many are of high quality and contribute to
the scientific purposes for which the stations were established, setting out the socio-economic
constraints which condition the adoption of agricultural research outputs. These are quite useful in
guiding the scientific research program formulation. However, it appears that the individual and
institutional perspectives of the technical assistance team directed the research efforts that were
undertaken (especially in the absence of the scientists recruited and sent on overseas training), rather
than its flowing from and having the coherence of the proposed integrated national research strategy,
which at that point seemed still-born.
2.23    Some of the actual research trials produced quite useful results. On the Kadugli station
considerable progress was made on sedentary systems research. This included the identification of
short maturity sorghum varieties, introduction of legumes and introduction of improved field practices.
On-farm livestock trials concentrated on the introduction of animal draught power and improved
bovine nutrition, particularly in relation to phosphorus deficiency. On the El Obeid station the main
focus was on soil characteristics and water management and conservation activities. These included
mulching and residue management, soil amendments and cultural practices. Among the results
demonstrated were the efficiency of mulching as opposed to burning, and improved seedling
emergence through tapping ground moisture in sandy soils at more than the traditional planting
depth. A wide range of crop varieties was also introduced into the Kordofan Region. Actual
mechanisms for transferring the technologies developed were less well considered. The establishment
of effective extension services emerged as a critical need constraining the utility of the initial results,
and is being addressed in related projects in the area.



-7-
SUSTAINABILITY
2.24    Sustainability emerges as a central weakness of the Project. At appraisal, the operational
cost of the facilities to be established was estimated at nearly 30% of the ARC's annual operational
budget for research. While the rainfed systems involved may fully warrant such an allocation, it would
have meant re-direction of substantial resources away from irrigated agriculture and toward rainfed
research in a farming-systems mode. Given the failure to adopt the proposed national research
strategy on which Project identification and preparation had been based, GOS commitment to this
level of redirection of resources is questionable.
2.25    At completion, the sustainability of the Project appeared mixed. Those research stations
already functioning seemed likely to continue, with whatever resources were available to them from
the ARC and support promised by USAID. The stations in Darfur were dependent on the ARC and
assistance through the second Western Savannah Project (Cr. 1640). Dissemination of the research
findings promised to be a major constraint, both from the point of view of a rudimentary extension
effort in the west and because of the cessation of research publications at the completion of the
technical assistance contract in late 1985.
2.26    A final constraint on sustainability relates to the linkage between the research network in
the west and the ARC. It is clear from the GOS portion of the PCR (Part II) that there are
administrative linkages, including technical committee input on workplan formulation, ARC
participation in staff recruitment, and the like. However, incentives to attract scientists to the western
region have not been addressed, and the severe constraints imposed by the shortage of both local
funding and foreign exchange does not bode well for retention of competent and motivated scientists.
'he political situation is of course one which is completely out of the control of Project designers and
their Sudanese colleagues, but it too constrains sustainability. During the last three years of
implementation, the Project was seriously hindered by the commandeering of Project vehicles by the
military, a symptom of the type of resource constraint likely to hamper further progress.
DONOR PERFORMANCE
2.27    The Bank. The preparation of the Project was thorough and involved several organizations
with considerable experience in the design, organization and management of agricultural research in
developing countries. However, at appraisal no specific agreements were included on a timetable for
implementation of the master plan, nor was there an examination of total costs for such a national
master research program and of the sources of recurrent financing for this. A condition for
effectiveness was the production of a salary review to ensure the establishment of salaries for the
Project's Sudanese staff that would be sufficient inducement to attract well qualified scientists. While
the review was produced, no further effort seems to have been undertaken to deal with this very
vexed issue of the need to attract scientific staff and the problems in retaining them. Yet the
scientific personnel are clearly central to the effort; this issue needed more attention.
2.28    A total of 19 supervision missions was fielded between October, 1978 and January 1988.
The composition of the missions was technically satisfactory and until mid-1987 there was good
continuity of staff. The Bank's method for dealing with the sustainability problem as it was
recognized has been to address pieces of it in the other projects being undertaken in the region:



- 8 -
continued support for the Darfur stations via the Western Savannah Projects (Cr. 1640-SU); attention
to the establishment of viable extension networks in the west via the Southem Kordofan Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 1867-SU), as well as through the Research, Extension and Training Project
(Cr. 1639-SU; which, however, is dealing with the extension services in the irrigated schemes initially,
and the improvement of research planning and evaluation capacity in the ARC itself, with the
ultimate objective of a rationalized national research strategy). It is not clear that these efforts will
have the effect of directly maintaining programs in the western stations, but they may set the stage
for better future utilization of them. Further, the construction of links to international research
networks has been given some attention, in an effort to maintain professional integrity. Relations
with relevant international centers (except ILCA) are well established.
2.29    Other donors.  Initially USAID's input provided strong momentum to the Project,
particularly through the early fielding of the technical assistance team and in the assistance with
preparations for civil works construction. Subsequent USAID refusal to continue the technical
assistance contract after its initial expiration date caused difficulties in implementation. Divergence
of views between USAID and the Bank on the sustainability of the efforts from that point on led to
serious problems for the Sudanese professional staff in sustaining momentum in the face of
increasingly uncertain donor support. The lack of Sudanese capacity to sustain the projected
recurrent maintenance and operating costs was one of the reasons USAID withdrew from further
assistance.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
2.30    Borrower performance was satisfactory within the increasing constraints imposed by the
macro-economic deterioration during the Project period. Foreign exchange shortages, inadequate
budgetary support to the ARC, and inadequacies of the transportation infrastructure took a heavy
toll on the implementation schedule.
2.31    Covenants were generally adhered to, although annual work programs were not always
submitted on a timely basis, and there were recurring difficulties with the production of audited
accounts. The Project Advisory Council, established in the first year of the Project to ensure
integration of Project-supported activities with the national research program, met only once, in 1982.
2.32    The main issue from the Bank's perspective concerns the lack of follow-through by the
Government on the national research system framework, which was taken as part of the assumptions
undergirding the Project design. Commitment by the GOS needs to be clearer where such follow-
through is essential to Project success, and needs to be indicated in budgetary and legal documents,
not just in Plan documents.
PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
2.33    Bank-borrower relationships were constructive and the Bank was very supportive of the
implementing agency in fighting for resources. This was true of the consulting team also, while in
place. The Bank did not during supervision give adequate consideration to the effects that major
delays were going to have on eventual performance, or on the co-financier's mounting concern and



- 9 -
eventual unilateral actions. The co-financier was generous with resources and helpful with logistics
until its withdrawal. The major problem for the implementing agency was the need to deal with two
differing donors on administrative and financial issues.
CONSULTANTS
2.34    The consultant services supplied by a consortium of US universities on the scientific side
had more than the usual enthusiasm and commitment, but lacked the managerial and logistical backup
essential to Project success in the Sudan. They performed well but were not a good substitute for
a national research strategy incorporating the dryland areas, which could have directed the research
efforts actually undertaken in a more focussed and prioritized manner. It is not clear that the
consultants employed assisted the research stations to build links to other professional bodies as
effectively as they should have. The Sudanese Project director did make such efforts but more could
have been done, and the Bank might think about increasing activities of this sort in future operations
directed at enhancing research capacity.  Such activities are relatively inexpensive but are generally
quite highly valued (and thus an incentive) by nationals with professional and scientific career needs.
DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
2.35    The legal amendments made in 1981 were, with hindsight, probably ill-advised, but they
were in order legally and the parties were agreed on their content. Greater Bank and Government
consideration of the consequences of these amendments vis-a-vis original objectives might have been
useful.
2.36    Data on the implementation period of the Project itself were readily available, as were the
research outputs of the functioning stations during the implementation stage, and particularly before
the technical assistants left. However, the impact of the effort on current and future research
capacity cannot be satisfactorily assessed from the data at hand. There should be a basis for at least
preliminary impact evaluation, quite irrespective of the strengths and weaknesses of Project
implementation and immediate outcomes as discussed in this PCR.
LESSONS
2.37    The lessons learned are summarized below:
(a) Consensus on sector strateg. Where a project is designed to support a fundamental
change of sector/subsector strategy, and the feasibility of such changes has been
demonstrated, milestones in the implementation of the change and related
disbursement conditionality should be built into the credit.
(b) Co-financier arrangements. Good coordination between the cofinanciers in terms of
strategy and implementation procedures is essential to project success;



- 10 -
(c) Recurrent costs projections. While recurrent cost projections were done, and were
then revised upwards, there was an overly-optimistic set of assumptions about the
capability or willingness of the GOS to assume them.
(d) Time horizons in Project design. It was appropriate to phase the project, but the time
projected for physical construction and research scientist training were too short. This
may have been especially the case because of the amount of other donor activity being
initiated in the region at the same time. Nonetheless, at least two or three more years
were necessary to establish the required facilities before launching a research program,
and the strategy underlying it.
(e) Technical assistance. University-based technical assistance of the sort that USAID
provided is ideal for such purposes as collaborative scientific research. However,
where institution-building is a central and prior activity -- involving both physical
construction and the recruitment of scientists and domestic bureaucratic-political
support -- it is as important to incorporate into the technical assistance a management
and logistics capability.
(f) Retention. A final lesson concerns the need to pay far more attention initially to the
issue of retention, especially of highly qualified scientific staff. This was a major issue
at the negotiations and effectiveness stages, and yet by completion had still not been
addressed satisfactorily.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE Y
On the whole the information given in the report is factual and accurate but there are
certain points which have been overlooked and it is important to highlight them. These mainly deal
with ARC/Project linkages, which the initial draft of the PCR stated were non-existent.
Linkages with ARC
It is true that the project in view of the magnitude of its financial support and
administrative structure has a certain latitude of autonomy which is meant to give it freedom of action
for quick decision-making. This has led to the belief that the Project is an independent autonomous
body. In point of fact some linkages have been worked out which aim at the final absorption of the
Project in the ARC system on completion of the project. These are as follows:
(i) In the formulation of the annual research programs relevant national coordinators
attend the annual meetings to advise in areas pertaining to their respective disciplines.
(ii) The Project is represented in all ARC administrative, financial and technical
committees, i.e. the Administrative and Financial Committee, the Variety Release
Committee, and the Crop Husbandry Committee.
(iii) Selection of graduates and scientists is done through a committee chaired by an ARC
representative.
(iv) Long term training (over 3 months) is carried through the Director ARC for training
and publications in accordance with ARC procedures.
(v) The Project budget is presented to the general meeting of the ARC Administrative
and Financial Committee.
(vi) After the termination of the technical assistance contract the Project has handed to
ARC its two printing presses to avoid duplication and to have one central publication
unit.
Project Management(PM)
The report [Bank's first PCR draft] states that the PM was good during the first four years
and henceforth there has been a slowdown in performance. The national and regional climatic events
which took place during the past 4-5 years [prior to this Nov. 1989 response] have impacted on
iY These comments were submitted In November, 1989 and were based on an early draft of Parta I and III.



- 12 -
project implementation. Under these circumstances management has turned to management of crisis
rather than planning and implementation.
Linkages with Extension
The importance of the dissemination of agricultural technology has been emphasized in
Project documents. The Project has hired a consultant to develop findings and recommendations
concerning the strengthening of research-extension-farmer linkages. This has not been accomplished
to date in a highly satisfactory manner due to the lack of trained production education specialists who
can work with researchers (especially Project research liaison scientist) and farmers. Nevertheless
the cooperation between the Project and the existing extension unit in Kordofan has evolved from
the person to person contact to the formulation of a Technology Transfer Committee composed of
researchers and extension workers and chaired by a senior extension worker. The central point in
all this is to institutionalize this functional relationship and this is a national rather than a regional
issue. For this reason the thinking within the Project is to call for a conference in which intemational
experts in the area of extension are invited to explore ways and means to formalize the linkage. Such
a conference can be financed from funds available to the Research, Extension and Training Project
[CR 1639-SU].
Donor Performance
Both IDA and USAID have met their obligations under the credit and grant agreements.
With regard to IDA's performance, the borrower has encountered no difficulties regarding
disbursement though there were some delays in paying the contractor in a few cases, which were
eventually rectified. An important factor in IDA's performance is the continuity of the personnel
who led the supervision missions and one of the lessons to be learned for the success in the
implementation of such projects is to avoid changes in personnel. IDA has also been very responsive
to the borrower's needs, especially when USAID has terminated its technical assistance to the two
Dar Fur stations.
Lessons Learned
The lessons learned during the implementation of the Project can be summarized as
follows.
1.      It was very difficult to establish physical structures and carry out research at the same time.
The Project should have been developed into two phases: the first phase is to complete the
physical structures and the second one is to start the active research work. Baseline data
and training of national personnel is to be carried out during the first phase. In this way
enough data would be collected for formulation of the research programs and young
scientists would have the opportunity to interface with more experienced scientists.
2.      The Project was to train a certain number of young graduates in certain disciplines in which
ARC is deficient. Other scientists are to be drawn from ARC's general pool of scientists.



- 13 -
This plan did not work because of the continuous attrition in the ARC manpower resulting
in understaffmg of the Project's research stations. Designers and planners for similar
projects in the future need to take this point into consideration.
3.      During the evaluation of the Project there have been differences of opinion between the
donors on matters on which they have initially agreed. These differences stemmed mainly
from rapid turnover in personnel and they have constrained project effectiveness and
efficiency and in certain cases they had a demoralizing effect on the national and expatriate
members of staff. Joint planning and firm commitments by the donors are deemed
necessary for project effectiveness.
4.      It is very difficult to retain highly qualified personnel in development projects located in
remote areas where civil amenities are inadequate or altogether lacking. The Project has
tried to overcome this by constructing attractive houses and providing house appliances to
scientists plus monetary incentives of 25% of the basic salary for scientists and support
staff. Though this is better than what their counterparts get in the ARC, it was not
attractive enough. This is one of the problems facing the Project and other development
projects and there is a need to find out ways and means to resolve this issue which is
crippling to such progress.
5.      With respect to borrower performance, the borrower has met its financial obligations as
set out in the agreement although delays in payments were frequently encountered.
However, Project implementation was adversely affected by Government interventions and
procedures which are not unique to the Project but constitute a common detriment to all
development projects [in the Sudan]. These are as follows:
3   successive devaluations
   unavailability of fuel
o difficulties in transportation
O tardy responses from Government cooperating agencies
   cumbersome procurement procedures.



- 14 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                                              Year of
Title                         Purpose                  Approval      Status
Credit 311              Expand first mechanized            1972       Closed
Mechanized              Project which established
Farming II              140 farms of 1000 fds
each to 420,000 fds
Credit 718              Finance a comprehensive            1977       Closed
Savannah Devel-         agricultural development
opment Project          program
Credit 804              Help present users of mechanized   1978       Closed
Mechanized              farming methods become more
Farming III             productive
Credit 1201             Provide credit and compliment-     1982       Closed
Agricultural            ary services to private farmers
Services                in rainfed and irrigated areas
Credit 1525             Ensure flow of marketed            1984       Ongoing
Stock Route             livestock from project areas                  Closing Date
Project                 to principal towns for exports                12/92
Credit 1639             Improve crop production            1985       Ongoing
Agricultural            in irrigated subsector                        Closing Date
Research and            through improvements in                       6/93
Extension               research & extension training
Credit 1640             Increase small farmer incomes      1985       Ongoing
Western                 through higher production of                  Closing Date
Savannah II             grains and pulses by making                   6/92
available farm inputs
Credit 1867             Establish a sound institutional    1987       Ongoing
South Kordofan          framework for agricultural                    Closing Date
Agricultural            development in sourther Kordofan              12/94
Development



- 15 -
2. Project Timetable
Date Planned   Date Revised   Date Actual
Reconnaissance                   -             -             10175
Identification                   -             -             03/76
Preparation                   02/77            -             02/77
Pre-Appraisal                    -             -             07/77
Appraisal                        -             -             10/77
Credit Negotiation               -             -             05/78
Board Approval                   -             -             06/78
Credit Signature                 -             -             07/78
Credit Effectiveness          12/78         03/80 1/         03/80
Credit Closing                06/85         12/85 J/         12/87
12/86
Credit Completion             12/85         06/87           06/88
IJ Five three-month extensions granted by IDA.
gi One six-month and two one-year extensions granted by IDA.



- 16 -
3. Credit Disbursement
Year    Appraisal Estimated    Actual Cumulative    Actual as % of
Cumulative                               Estimated
1979            0.3                  0.0
1980            0.7                  0.0
1981            4.2                  0.9                  21
1982            9.9                  5.7                  58
1983            13.1                 7.1                  54
1984            14.7                 8.4                  57
1985            15.0                 9.9                  66
1986            15.0                 11.0                 73
1987            15.0                 12.4                 83
1988            15.0                 13.5                 90



- 17 -
4. Project Costs and Financing
A. Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual Estimate "
Foreign                            Foreign
Local     Exchange                 Local     Exchange
Costs       Costs       Total      Costs      Costs Y'      Total
Local      Foreign
Construction                 5.32        9.88       15.2         5.50       10.2      15.7
Professional fees            1.00                    1.0        3.50         -         3.5
ARC HO                       1.60         -          1.6        0.50          -        0.5
Furniture & equip.           0.32        0.68        1.0        0.70         1.5       2.2
Vehicles & machin.           0.49        0.51        1.0         1.60        1.7       3.3
Aircraft                     -           0.30        0.3         -           1.7       1.7
Farm development             .055         .045       0.1        0.82          .68      1.5
Small purchases              0.45        0.05        0.5         -            -
Local salaries               4.60         -          4.6        2.50         -         2.5
Accommodation                0.10                    0.1                               -
Office expenditure           0.04        0.06        0.1         -
Transport                    0.13        0.27        0.4        0.20         3.3       3.5 Y
Building maintenan.          0.36        0.44        0.8        0.2          0.2       0.4
Equipment mainten.           0.13        0.27        0.4        0.1          0.3       0.4
Aircraft operation           0.15        0.35        0.5        0.50         1.2       1.7
Farm costs                   0.03        0.17        0.2                     -         -
International staff          0.50        3.20        3.7        1.30         8.1       9.4
Training                     0.16        0.34        0.5         0.50        1.2       1.7
Conferences                  0           0           0           -           0.1       0.1
Short term consult.          -           0.9         0.9         -           0.7       0.7
Building programme           -           1.0         1.0         -           0.2       0.2
Contingencies                5.06        6.44       11.5               -               -
Total project costs 4       20.5        24.9        45.4        17.9        31.1      49.0
NOTES:
.1 Based on GOS and IDA expenditure to 30 June 1988 and USAID indicated expenditure to 30 December 1988.
Y Foreign exchange percentages are based on SAR figures.
Y Including stock of spares for period after project completion.
4 This was revised to about $67 million in mid-1981 but there is no record of a breakdown by category.



- 18-
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source              SAR Estimates   Amended (1981)        Actual
IDA CredRt                          15.0             15.0 !'          13.5
USAID Co-Financing                  20.0            26.0              20.0
USAID Parallel Financing Y'                          9.0               1.8
GOS                                  10.4            17.0             13.7 3'
(including taxes and duties)
Total                               45.4             67.0              49.0
This includes a Norweglan grant equivalent to US$4.5 million. In December 1981, Norway decided
to participate in the loans and credits made by the Bank and IDA to support development activRies
in Sudan and a number of countries. The grant was included in the IDA credit of US$15 million
for the Agricultural Research Project and was disbursed at IDA's discretion. This arrangement was
made in accordance to the Agreement of 1973 between norway and the Bank on participations of
Norway in Bank loans and IDA credits.
3' This was agreed upon in a separate agreement and was for financing of force account operations
at all construction sites (fencing, farm roads, airstrip maintenance and wells).
' US$9.6 million, provided by USAID from PL 480 funds and $4.1 million provided by GOS.



- 19 -
5. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
1. Establishment of physical research facilities.
2. Initial staffing of half of them with project-trained scientists.
3. Establishment of baseline research and initial work plans to guide in the formulation of an
integrated research plan.
B. Staff Training
SAR Estimate
Original           Revised       Actual Completed
Ph.D. Training (no.)                      6                  8                  6
M.Sc. Training                            5                  6                  8
Short Term Training
(staffmonths)                            18                  7                 231'
y   These are overseas training courses. In addition, 60 staffmonths of on-the-job training, seminars
and workshops were provided under the technical assistance agreement.



- 20 -
C. Research Programs
Type Of Research          Corresponding                          Comments
Publication
1. Production Systems
Research
a. Arid livestock     Pub. No. 23:            Emphasis of the research is on Integrated crop-
production at the fringe.   Application Of Farming   livestock development. Though the results reported
(El Fasher Station)      Systems Research And   are preliminary in nature, the research itself Is relevant
Development To An      and would appear to be a satisfactory beginning.
Extensive, Sedentary   The research identHied a problem of inadequate
Livestock Production   nutrition during the dry season due to low forage
System In Sothern      quality and availability. To minimize these constraints,
Kordofan, Sudan. Nov.  it was proposed to: (a) introduce forage legumes; (b)
1983.                  conserve native forage; (c) use crop residues on
cracking-clays; and (d) utilize animal traction.
b. Semi-arid livestock   Pub. No 56:          Construction of the infrastructure at this was slow,
production in the south    Final Report.        causing delays in research progress.
of the project area, inter-
sparsed with crop
production (Ghazala
Gawazat)                                                                                          l
c. Integrated         Pub. No 56:             Same as above.
Crop/Livestock           Final Report.
production on stablized
sands (Ghazala
Gawazat)
d. Integrated         Pub.No.56:              The research program identified production
Crop/Livestock           Final Report.           constraints and made specific suggestions for
production non-cracking                          potential Intervention. It was an interdiscipilinary
clays (Kadugli)                                  research program utilizing both on-station and on-
farm trials. The research focus was on: varietal trials,
legumes, forages, crop residues, animal husbandry
to improve animal productivity, and soclo-economic
data on traditional households; also, as a part of the
Baggara Transhumant Livestock System, rangeland
productivity, seasonal nutrition status, and socio-
economic data to evaluate producer-market
evaluations were deaf with.
e. Integrated         Pub. No. 56:            Staff shortage limited research progress. However,
Crop/Livestock           Final Report,          with support received from Kadugli Research Station,
production on cracking    March 1986.           research was initiated on crops. The integration of
clays (Obeid)                                   crop-livestock research was not advanced. But given
the constraints reported, the achievement realized
I                      I would seem to be considerable.



- 21 -
Type Of Research         Corresponding                         Comments
Publication
2. Water And Land Use
Research Program
a. Resource Potential   Pub. No. 45: Some    Improvements in seedling establishment and profile
Aspects Of Water       moisture establishment were suggested. The
Depletion And         research result was relevant for agronomic practices
Conservation In Goz    and land use. The soil and water conservation trials
Sands And Their        of 1984/85 at the El Obeid Research Station included
Implications For       mulching, residue management,inter-row surface
Improving Agronomic   tillage, soil ammendments, ridge- furrow cultivation,
Practices And Land     planting in seed cradles, and depth of planting trials.
Use In Western Sudan.   Also, dryland hydrologic processes, drip
October 1985.          irrigation,and instrumentation for collection weather
data, as well as soil property studies were made.
Mulching and residue management increased the
sorghum biomass on cracking vertisols by 53% and
138%, respectively. Mulching also retarded weed
growth. For millet, grown on Gos sands, biomass
increased by 168% and grain yields increased by
83%. These results would indicate that the research
was useful in increasing yields.
b. Water Management  Pub. No.45. ibid,       Local deep-rooted plant species physiologically
Technology              October 1985. Final    adapted to drought conditions were collected and
Report No. 56.         planted in the desired density and geometry. The
research, though only of a preliminary nature, was
relevant.
c. Socio-Economics   Information was not
of Water Management     available separately
under this heading as
socio-economic
aspects were
incorporated in the
other research
programs.



- 22 -
6. Status of Covenants
Covenant              Subject                     Deadline                     Status
Prolect Agreement
2.05       Work Programs and investment &  3 mos prior to start of  AWPs  were  not expedHtiously
operating  budget to be prepared  each fiscal year      prepared in advance and were not
and submitted to IDA for review                         current until Nov. 1982
and comment annually
2.09       ARC shall establish during the first  first year  of  project  PAC was formed yet met only
year of project Implementation a  implementation        once. Importance of PAC was
Project Advisory Council to be                          undermined by lack of GOS action
chaired by the DG of ARC                                in  implementing   PAC's
recommendations
4.02       ARC  shall  maintain  separate  to be submitted to IDA   Due to lack of experienced staff
project accounts, such accounts  not later than 6 months  and  poor  Internal  accounting
shall be audited each fiscal year  after the end of each   methods, the first audited project
and said audit reports submited to  such year           accounts were not available until
IDA                                                     5/84
Development Credit Aareement
3.03C      MPW   shall  provide  qualified  03/31/79               MPW was unable to provide site
personnel to assist architects in                       engineers  and  clerks  for
supervising  the construction  of                       construction program.
project civil works                                     Project funding  was  used  to
overcome problem
3.05       Borrower shall make a study on  not later than the 5th  A committee formed July 1983 to
alternative  means  of financing  anniversary  of  the  carry out the study, no specific
future agricuitural research from   Effective Date      proposals had been put forward
sources other than budgetary                            by the final project completion
date



- 23 -
7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Activity   Total                               Staff Weeks Per Year
75   76   77   78   79   80   81   82   83   84   85   86   87    88
Identification    10.0   2    8    -    -    -    -       -    -    -    -         -    -      -
Preparation           -    -   47    -    -    -          -    -    -    -         -    -      -
47.0
Appraisal             -    - 2         -    -    -2
22.0
Negotiation           -    -    -    5    -    -
5.0
Supervision           -    -    -    4    7   5.5   5    5    2    4    3    3   2.5   1.5
42.5
PCR                      -       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    6
6.0
Total     132.5   2    8   69    9    7   5.5   5    5    2    4    3    3   2.5   7.5



- 24-
B. Mission Data
Date    No. of    Staff   Specializatlon   Status   Trend    Problems
Persons   Weeks          1          Ji    _ _ 
Identification    1976        4       10.0         a,e
Preparation       2-7/77      9       47.0        a,e,f
Appraisal         10177      10       22.0       a,e,d,f,r
Supervision       10/78       3        4.0        e,r,g         2       2          0
Supervision 2     04/79       3        3.0        e,f,g         2       2          0
Supervision 3     11/79       3        4.0        e,f,r         2       2          0
Supervision 4     05/80       2        2.5         d,l          2        1         F
Supervision 5     11/80       3        3.0        d,e,f         2       2          F
Supervision 6     05/81       4        2.5        a,e,f,l       2       2          M
Supervision 7     11/81       4        2.5        a,e,f,l       2        1        MC
Supervision 8     03/82       3        3.0        a,e,f         2       2         MC
Supervision 9     11/82       2        2.0         a,l          2       2         MC
Supervision 10    11/83       5        2.0        a,f,l         2       2         MC
Supervision 11    04/84       3        2.0        e,f,g         2       2          MF
Supervision 12    10/84       3        2.0        e,f,l         2       2          MF
Supervision 13    02/85       3        1.5        a,e,l         2       2          M
Supervision 14    11/85       2        1.5         1,0          2       2          M
Supervision 15    06/86       2        1.5         e,l          2       2          M
Supervision 16    10/86       2        1.5         e,l          2       2          M
Supervision 17    07/87       3        2.5        e,g,o         2       2          M
Supervision 18    02/88       3        1.5         a,e          2       2         M
PCR 89/90                     5        8.2        a,e,g
!/ a=agriculturalist, d=education speciallst, e=economist, f=financial analyst, g=engineer, I=Itvestock specialist,
o=operatlons, r=archftect
1 =problem free or minor, 2=moderate, 3=major problems
V  I= improving, 2=stationary, 3=deterorating
Y  F=financial, M-management, T=technical, O=other



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SOILS
Re-se.rch Area Boundary
LCO=    HILL MASSIFS (WITH BASALTIC BROWN LOAM IN JEBEL MARRA AREA)
Z     STABILISED SANDS (QOZ)
Zmj~ CLAY PLAIN IMAINLY BLACK NON-CRACKING CLAYS)
L7ZZ ALTERNATING SAND DUNES AND IMPERVIOUS CLAY FLATS (BAGGARA CATENA)
NB Non-C-II.ng Clays (Gordud and Nogo) a-. Pasnh.ly D.Wrouled n Small Areas
jas Shon ,n In-t I., El Obeid) and a AlternatIg FlaIn mw lhE Baogaro Calena
ARAB  REPUBLIC OF  EGYPT
Ricr I. ... .                                                                               IRslov  
o--Prance Baundor-es         r                         _                          -
I                              '             \1        (                               ic\%              '\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Haic
L LIBYA  |            VN  O R    TEH              N     R                                             0
-I         I    t       t    Xs  5  A        totn Sd
N            T      H   E    R  , N                                                      -_
'''~~~~/    0    R           H    ^       t N                                                     G         RA,-+   
/   \.a   DX       >t                                  <             N    g                    z t.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~/    -
&-/                    &,                                                 t I  9   50  ,90  uso  200/  2su~~r
IS~ ~  ~     GOA//H                A Z A/        ( S \ Ns |/  O G      
D AA RI F 
DAERE                                                                                                       T R A LPA FDOEI C a NA\N-E  f 1/ ) - E/
U             -
Nyol. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     dirn                NAlsslmo
wi    ~ abnba             B       ER
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05  O  5 0 
'in,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
N  GH-AZAL  \ 
CENTRAL   AFRICAN                              8    A'OHAE    Q~'ORI
R E P U B L I C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Inn*nmeirsnasancncIra
*  -~~~~~~~                                      [7  G~~~~~~~OZ synlmn
Z]N-nCrackg Clayn
Sn,, a -    "~~~~~~         (Gardad S.InI
c.r.n in. d.,.r,0r     0    0p  20  30  49  so 
-                 ~~~~~~~KILOME TERS
0       0o    20      3
d4fieren., nySi-
.1 L f 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n,






SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CLIMATE
Res*.,ch Areo Boundary
Awoga Annual R-mfoll, 1931-1960 mn i
"4000  A-rog. Annuol E-aporaion Pobtnoial, 1930 - 1960 n mm
IRo.d.oys
--  -Po,..a,,&,,.lld s                   ARAB   REPUBLIC   OF   EGYPT
lmrnna onol Bound.r,.s
F  _           -               R ,iosfl if  r      r~ R    F            
I            I /
|  =     R   t  /-/  E  R  N                          ,    ~~\       5    E DAPr uo
_"!~'oogf/ \v_
OO(/R N 8  N 0 4 Ti H    R N                                      G  IRA"
g~~~~~~~                                            onbog       x     -                       ( ti      /-  Y           z
(40  > W   0   \                                                     . /00    2o
0    50    00    3000 .00
CENTRAL AFRICA N                                                  UH                  JONG,I    >\
R E P U B L I C                                 '           U RAT 
,_T~RfA    ? 2                   EASTERN                 >
(   S   WS -A. , ./" t . ,.ouA                                                                                                            ---_,
4                                                                         i.bo  QU  J~RAEQUATORIA
-0 t ~~~~~~~~~z A I R E \,_a-s...   as
i5 \ f 0 _ _ i , 5g c7.~,w * _1; 1~ 5 t U G A N  D   JoA  \   <K E N Y A
_~  _ _E.   W     C a    _is o u           I 2   U G A N  D A
5  es.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   N  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;3






SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ECOLOGICAL ZONES
'' k                                                    o LIBYA
J / a r X~~~ _  -_ ---                                                                            - .-. AU
CEflU  ,                                                                                                       2LWZ7ItYA ff    tmX
AFTSAN ,'  \   l                               !                |     [ no630m n             fn
- b~~~a..                                                                     in~~~nt       kflc1geMM4nf....
CENTRAL
AFRICAN                                                              'Z!L-
REPUBLIC   /_4,     's    I                       er)           I                  _     sto     ~           -   *  -  _   _






-2r                               SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CROPS AND AGRICULTURAL REGIONS
Rssrcrh Arm. Boundary
D    Sorghum
Sesame  
U    Ground Nus
g     Irrigate d
II IZJRinled Ar.d, Semiard                        ARAB    REPUBLIC   OF   EGYPT
:, Railed                           I
-.-0-.-.-.Ray.                   --------*-                                                                   -    -*        *     *-       -
*-Roivers                                                                                                                                              0 Z'''' -~  
Province Bo-ndoares        ilo HIf
--Inotnos,onal B4oundaries                                                                                   (  + t21 |3 
l                                             iX          \        ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~R   f  D  
LIBYA                    N  0 RTREDR 
NO                    T        E       N               NORTHERN r* .AERG   RADCTO  19417517
V              FUR                                                                                               E  A                No _  ^
5'                                                                                                                                    or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
__Snw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Southern Kurdol an Northern Kordo an Sou hern Dol                                                     u Northern Drflur i
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~muni                                                                       111J&t.             . _ _iio    EZ2orbm  nAI$@ -snd ruin,  _
DAO FUR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rNr*M , itn                                             r nvn eni. n
t4  w -~~~    l  Z1   ~~~j                                    30'    Soss< M6stas of food. A#RFICOIID* ond t9sol f  <svs Stdo3                      g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'u. 
S~~~~~~~~~~1 Foh






235                                    30>                                     . 73 3   :      '
SUDAN                                                 ~
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
NOMADIC MOVEMENT
R-ewor,h A-.o Boondor.A
HAMAR Co."  Owr-ng Tr,beo,                                                                                                     1
. Roiny Seoson*.$..
*~~~ Gizo (Cool. S.o.wn .
Dry (Cool th-. Hot) Seoono
HUMR CoSlle O.-ng Tr,b..   /
..    Ro.ny S o...O,                       ARAB   REPUBLIC   OF   EGYPT                 I'
Dry So.on              |'v
B*om A.& r(D"c.F.b)        _._                                          >r'                         _  _  _  _/_  _**--,. 
W~   T,,bo, wh.ch 0-n Both      F                                                  <wS, rq                                                Q 
Con.ls ond C.ttl,ollieol
E-1.,,og R.d..,oy 
N -     lles             |                                                                               R I  (E
-- Proo,ncc Boondor,cn     j                                                                               P0  16 R   0  
-          d---hrlcno-osol   LIBYA                  R N   T H     R                                   /
_.R  TH,    IN;\  *                         1T4F             N                     IR~ 5E  A, c
y A W  A           z \  MEIDO  Il  K YA A  8  A I8   I  5 pH l\
,JI   s. O   R   r  ff  f- \' . N  * \   f'N   O   R           '  ,                             RAN 63
AW  A              YoA   i   II          I      I       %                                                 II 
XN NHb ,< EL8                                                           H        LA
S5          U THEff Nf-   b/0 o              oso,,r         (K;X  
BANI AL                                                    VtHAPBANlYA RIZFIQAA
ELBA                                q~~~~~                      tOGA  TOR /
.;,/  ) \\t9s, 8' ~~~ZAIE                                                         R                                       AK    )      .
TAAISH                                             I/ IO
CENTRAL AFRICAl A   \HABB            1/ Xf   --\                     UGNDA
R                A  B_
r.u    u   X Wfh, r Rf                 >    1      A 5 FfNRN 
a             A-l                  Z~~~~~~~~~' H   A I                                      i            >s A 
CENTRL   AFRCAN, o  _ .,
P  .             C5                                                E R,- eI S






2?                   ~~~SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOCATION OF STATIONS IN THE
NATIONAL RESEARCH STATION NETWORK
Reseorck or,o boondary          RoilJvay,
* M.in *roms-                        Rivers
A   Spcial r.sorch s-orons   -      G.me Reserve bodory                     A R A
*   Field sauions                   -Pio.ne boundarIeAAB
#   I.iveock vsot-na         _      l_n?,rnouioiol boundorms
X Jow 1.nlive,ac& aidc - ofp...ns                              R E P U B  L I       F   EGYPT
i                               lAv ~~~~~~~~~~~~HIla  ,7
L I BYA   |                                      /           R        (                                               |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I 
LIBYA
\   R    F   D
r  ~~ _.              |          NIV O    R   T  H/  E  R  N  t                           
N  ORT/-IERNKRTC N                                      I I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0i
Ka,e          N o   u   ,                 2 dvR  N   e ibdobaNw  rKoduol  J   , E      N
r  S   R  T   FH  R   IV  Nf K OR r H E R  N
Z  A RFU-, -F\R               *                       A                     P a     ROYAT/RI
Ia' -r    as - - a... j    Mulrs.                            ~..
K 0 ti A Z         F            U GA N  A
R         A    R  F  B    R   .,_ + -v_        8ffR       
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ak10                                                                         3    10   aW4ip   20   250S fRN-
C   f fi                7  *OY  \-O  />//_y~~~~~~~~ Jubot/    FOUArOR/MtA                      3t
Wi  S          * A  R t                              '         at-^._ /   be                     N            *s      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILMEER






x  B                                   1                                                   15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 13332R
SUDAN                                           iA R A  B    R E P U B LI C
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                               i                 F   E G Y P T
Main Transportation Network                                         i                                      --
L   I    B    Y    A    ie                                                 /           X        /R                 E     D-"     
-        ~ PdP,ict                                           --i  N                                       O R    T      E   R    N  SSEAwz
Pa"Roads Uid.n Cnnntr~.t                    "
Roods and Tracks, All San
- - -    Roads and T-wks, DY 4o
......Roads BnrnStodid
Grovl Standrd                                                                                           E
Sna.  owd. Ran  nnn.dtEnrad
_ Radnay.                                                                                                                                   2       E
Roar S-rnc.
Ranhg n Pinned Wiqnation Sd,e-an
in cini~nty of PrOte Rood
-w   1O    = 1   Of nd Irnetion SOr             ii                                N   O    R   T   H   E   R  N Kkarr
* Natofal Capital/ 
*    PrcirnlnCo$als                          N     O  R   T    H   E    R   N           K    O    R    D   O      F    A    N
To-s and Via1.95  D   A    R                                      U   R                                                                             K A  S 
Th. d-    -- ---d              -      -,      u
A-                                                               Kdoh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                   E
t 3 > $ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T    H                                                                                        I O  P    I  A
b~00Wd lark        20      3 O
.1 r.nA.r .~C   E                        N         R    A  
AFIC                                                         Z    A         IR E'-
an~p.dnnni.r~!r.a    a                                                                                                                        N D       A   R
- ad Ow Wand lark G.n.p. ~ ~     ~        2
aw - - ow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A*S IM



