= '         r     lDv              VDocument of
tnhLL   u ri                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2281a-SU
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
June 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        =       Sudanese Pounds (LS)
US$1.00                              =       ES 0.400
ES I                                        US$2.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                      =        10,000 m  - 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)                         =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2            =        0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )            =        0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                     =        2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)                  =        2,205 pounds (lbs) or 1000 kg
1 feddan                            =        1.038 acres (ac)
I milliard                          =        1,000 million (US 1 billion)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AAAID      =      Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Development
APRA       =     Animal Production Research Administration
ARC        -     Agricultural Research Corporation
FED        =      European Development Fund
lADS       =     International Agricultural Development Service
ICB        =     International Competitive Bidding
ILO        =     International Labor Organization
MFC               Mechanized Farming Project
UN         =     United Nations
UNESCO     =     United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
USAID      =     United States Agency for International Development
WHO               World Health Organization
WSDC       =     Western Savannah Development Corporation
GOVERNNENT OF SUDAN FISCAL YEAR 1/
July 1 - June 30
1/   Years given in this report refer to the 12 months ending
June 30 in the year mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:         The Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC)
Amount:              US$15 million equivalent.  The IDA funds would be
passed on to ARC as a grant.
Terms:               Standard.
Proiect              Over a six-year period, the project would develop the
Description:        research capability of the Agricultural Research Cor-
poration (ARC) in Western Sudan, implement research
programs in this region and expand support services
at ARC's new Khartoum headquarters. The research pro-
gram would be concerned with integrated livestock and
crop production systems at el Obeid, Ghazala Gawazat
and Kadugli; pure livestock production systems at Ghazala
Gawazat and el Fasher; and water and land use management
at Nyala. The research programs would be directed from
the regional headquarters of ARC at Nyala. The project
would finance the building and equipping of four research
stations, with laboratories, offices and staff housing;
seven mobile research units, vehicles, an aircraft and
other equipment; purchase of a new ARC headquarters build-
ing; operating costs for the research programs for six
years, including staff salary costs for both Sudanese
and non-Sudanese staff; and various consultancies, fellow-
ships, training and contract research work. The project
would be implemented by ARC.
Benefits             The principal benefits would be improved crop and live-
and Risks:          stock production technology, with attendant production
and income increases among the farmers of Western Sudan;
improved land use management in an ecologically fragile
region; and strengthening of ARC to discharge national
agricultural research programs. The principal risks
relate to the need to establish a new regional management
structure in Western Sudan and speed of adoption of the
new technology developed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii~)
Cost and Financing:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Investment  Costs                            9.3        11.5     20.8
Of which, construction                    (5.3)       (9.9)   (15.2)
Operating Costs                              5.5         1.5       7.0
Technical Assistance                         0.7         5.4       6.1
Base Cost                                 15.5        18.4     33.9
Contingencies - Physical                     0.8         1.5       2.3
Price                       4.9        4.3       9.2
Total                                     21.2        24.2     45.4
Of which, taxes and duties                   6.8         --        6.8
Total net of taxes and duties             14.4        24.2     38.6
The IDA Credit, amounting to 39 percent of net project cost,
would finance the foreign exchange costs of the civil works compo-
nent and the aircraft and aircraft operating costs.  USAID, which
expects to make a grant of US$20 million for the project, would
finance the balance of the foreign exchange costs and $10.8 million
of the local costs. The balance of the local costs, amounting to
9 percent of net project cost, would be financed by the Government.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million to June 30)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
0.3     0.4      3.5     5.7      3.2      1.6     0.3
Cumulative      0.3      0.7     4.2      9.9    13.1    14.7    15.0
Rate of Return:      Not calculated
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2005-SU
Dated: June 15, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, for the equiva-
lent of US$15 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance an Agricultural
Research Project. The proceeds of the Credit would be passed on to the
Agricultural Research Corporation as a grant. USAID is expected to make a
grant of $20 million for the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Economic Memorandum distributed to the Board in September 1976
(Report No. 1273a-SU) provides an assessment of the economic situation and
prospects of the Sudan. Prior to that, Bank staff had participated in the
ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy Mission in 1975 and played a major
role in both the conception and execution of the mission's work.  Whilst the
mission was an employment strategy mission, its focus, as with previous ILO
missions, was on the overall problem of income creation for low-income earners
in the context of a more rapidly growing economy. The mission's report is
comparable to a Bank basic economic report and its analysis and conclusions
are the basis both for our developing dialogue on economic policy issues with
the Government and for the development of our program of operations. The
report has been influential in stimulating discussion of development policy
issues in the country. A special government working group reviewed the report
and prepared a substantive and lengthy evaluation of its analysis and conclu-
sions. The report also provided a major input into the preparation of the
Six Year Plan for 1977-83. An updating economic mission visited Sudan in
May 1978 and is preparing its report. Social and economic data on Sudan are
attached as Annex I.
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa, with a population of about 15.9 million. Much
of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in contrast
to many developing countries, there is little population pressure on pres-
ently developed land. Although a large part of the country consists of
desert or semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential
for agricultural development. Estimates indicate that about two-thirds of
the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only
a small fraction of this land is under intensive use. In addition, the
White Nile and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water which has enabled
1/   Parts I, II, paras 24-33 of Part III and Annex I of this report are
almost identical to those contained in the President's Report for the
Third Mechanized Farming Project dated May 3, 1978.



- 2 -
the country to develop the largest irrigation system in tropical Africa. The
Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to two thirds of that allocated
to it under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but there remains room for
considerable further expansion in irrigation. The proximity of Sudan to
markets in the Middle East and Europe places it in a good position for agri-
cultural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries have increasingly come to
consider Sudan as a primary future source of agricultural products.
4.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is still
a poor country and is classified by the U.N. as a least developed country. The
most recent estimate of per capita GNP of $290 (1976) is based upon estimates
of national accounts of questionable reliability and appears to exaggerate the
standards of living of the people of Sudan and the state of development of its
economy. Certainly, there are large areas of the country where most of the
people have very low incomes. The economy is still heavily dependent on ex-
ports of cotton, which is the major commodity produced on irrigated land, and
also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. Its considerable grazing
resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing sector is relatively
small and, apart from the processing of such agricultural commodities as
cotton, oil seeds and sugar, it is limited to the production of consumer goods
and building materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore and fur-
ther development of these deposits is taking place. The public sector has
long been important in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irriga-
tion facilities, the railways and virtually all power and water supply. With
the nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry,
commerce and finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some
industrial enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of
the GDP is still generated within the public sector.
5.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of invest-
ment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in
achieving a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
absorbed most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of
current expenditure was caused by increasing security expenditures, the
policy of hiring all post secondary school graduates and converting casual
labor on public projects into permanent government employees and rapidly
increasing transfers to local government. Further, savings generated by
public corporations also declined because of inefficiency and rigid pricing
policies. Public sector deficits were increasingly financed through exces-
sive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and the external position was
under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports and a stagnation of
export volume.
6.        The period since 1973 contrasts sharply with the preceding decade
in many important respects. First, there has been a sharp increase in invest-
ment, especially in the public sector, with expenditures directed at the
priority sectors--transportation and other infrastructure, agriculture and
agricultural processing industries. Second, there has been a serious concern



with developmental issues reflected most prominently in widespread discussion
at the political and technocratic level of the problems of economic growth
in the Sudan since the ILO issued its report in 1975. Furthermore, the
Government has shown a willingness to discuss its economic problems openly.
Not only is this reflected in the continuous and serious dialogue on these
problems in which the Bank has been engaged with the Government over the past
two years but it has been most strongly reflected in the very frank report
which the Government prepared for the Consultative Group meeting in November
1976. This report and the Bank's own critical evaluation of Sudanese develop-
ment performance and prospects were freely discussed by the Government with
delegations to the CG meeting. In January 1977, the Government organized an
informal meeting of representatives of national and international financial
institutions, chaired by President Nimeiry and attended by all the economic
ministers at which a frank presentation of the developmental issues was encour-
aged. Whilst all this increased interest in developmental issues does not
substitute for action, it is a necessary precondition for action and certainly
represents a marked change from the situation existing a few years ago.
7.        This concern over developmental issues is being institutionalized
through the development of an effective planning machinery, with the assis-
tance of a UNDP planning project of which the Bank is the executing agency.
The Six-Year Plan covering the period 1977-83 launched in July 1977 is the
most immediate and important outcome of this effort. A comprehensive educa-
tion sector review conducted with Bank and UNESCO assistance has also been
completed, and an exercise to develop a primary health care program has been
completed with the help of WHO.
Recent Economic Developments and Issues
8.        Over the five year period ended June 1975, it is estimated that
GDP in real terms grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent--a growth
rate consistent with growth trends in the agricultural sector, which accounts
for 40 percent of national income, and the spurt in development expenditures
in other key sectors of the economy. Public investment, which increased
from US$75 million in 1973 to about US$300 million per annum in the years
1975-77, has been concentrated on the highest priority needs. Sugar imports
should be eliminated by 1979 and sugar will be available for export by 1980,
reaching an estimated volume of 0.5 million tons in 1987. Textile and sacking
imports will be much reduced by 1979. Medium staple cotton, groundnuts and
some other commodities will be available for export in larger quantities, an
oil pipeline has recently been commissioned, and both road and rail capacity
are rising, helping to ease the transport bottleneck. All the data on private
investment are poor, but it seems that private investment has expanded rapidly
also.
9.        The increased rate of investment on the part of the public sector,
which is bringing about significant structural changes in the economy, is in
sharp contrast with the relative stagnation of the late sixties and early
seventies. However, in most other respects, the standard of economic man-
agement needs improvement. In particular the budgetary situation is a
matter of concern. Despite a good record in revenue raising, which is



- 4 -
reflected in a revenue/GDP ratio currently about 20%, the public sector con-
tinues to be a net dis-saver. As a consequence, public investment has had to
be financed entirely through domestic and foreign borrowing. The resulting
credit expansion has been an important contributory factor to domestic price
increases averaging over 20% per annum in the last three years.
10.       Externally, the increased pace of public investment coincided with
the higher rates of international inflation, which began in 1973, and the
recession in industrialized countries, which adversely affected export earn-
ings. The volume of cotton exports in 1975 was 45% below the average of the
preceding three years. A number of domestic factors, including an unfavor-
able cost-price structure, also contributed to this decline. As a result,
the foreign exchange constraint to growth and the budgetary difficulties were
exacerbated. A major consequence of these developments was a resort to for-
eign borrowing to finance development expenditures and to support the balance
of payments. From an average of $50 million per annum in 1971-73 gross
disbursements of foreign loans rose to $450 million in 1974, and in the last
three years have been of the order of $300 million, annually. Excluding
1974 when the severity of the terms of borrowing reduced the grant element of
loan commitments by about half, Sudan has managed to borrow on relatively
concessionary terms, reflected in average terms of 4% interest rate, 24 years
maturity and 6 years grace in the period 1970-75. Nevertheless, the sharply
increased borrowing in the last few years, a significant proportion of which
was in the form of quick-disbursing cash loans, has resulted in a quadrupling
of external public debt between 1972 and 1975 and hab imposed a heavy debt
servicing burden on the country (see para. 14). Furthermore, the Central Bank
has repeatedly had to borrow abroad in order to finance the increasing overall
deficit. As a result, Sudan's net international reserve position moved from
net liabilities of less than $45 million at the end of December 1970 to $510
million in March, 1978.
11.       Confronted with these problems, the Government of Sudan took a
number of measures. So far as internal fiscal management is concerned, con-
sumer subsidies have been sharply reduced, defense expenditure was restrained
and railway and utility tariffs increased. Tax measures introduced in the
1977 budget are estimated to have added about 10 percent to Government reve-
nue. In 1977, these measures were supplemented by additional measures
designed to increase tariffs and other indirect taxes on luxury consumer
goods, while reducing those on essential consumer goods.  The net effect of
these measures is a small increase in revenues. In any case, with the Gov-
ernment already absorbing about 20 percent of GDP in the form of current
receipts, it would be unrealistic in the short run to expect any significant
increase in the level of taxation, and essential improvement in Government
savings and reduction in credit expansion will have to come from holding
the growth of recurrent expenditures below the growth of revenue. In a
significant move in October 1977, the Minister of Finance ordered a 10% cut
in recurrent expenditure of Government ministries.
12.       So far as the current budget is concerned, an improvement is required
in financial control mechanisms to ensure that actual expenditures do not ex-
ceed appropriated amounts. Additionally, budgetary transfers from the central



- 5 -
to provincial and, through them to local governments need to be placed on
a basis which is permanently sustainable. So far as the capital budget is
concerned there is a danger of over-commitment with too many projects being
started and their completion delayed. In this connection, the recurrent ex-
penditure implication of public investment outlays needs serious consideration.
13.       On the revenue side, the main objective of reforms in the tax system
should be to make it development-oriented. This requires a reduction in the
reliance on foreign trade taxes, development of broad-based consumption taxes
and extension of direct taxes, especially to capture the growth in the modern
agricultural sector. Another important aspect of resource mobilization is
the role of parastatals. While the public sector in Sudan dominates all non-
traditional economic activities, public enterprises have failed to generate
adequate surpluses to finance development expenditures, and their operational
deficits have become a drain on the Government budget. The Government has
completed a comprehensive review of the operations and performance of para-
statal organizations. Bank staff have assisted in the review.
14.       Finally, the recent build up of external public debt and the for-
eign liabilities of the banking system underscore the need for improved debt
management and a further strengthening of the external debt control machinery.
In particular, in view of the rapidly rising debt service burden, which
reached 24 percent in 1977 and was projected to peak at about 31 percent in
1978, and in order that the debt service ratio falls to more manageable levels
in the early 1980's, it is essential for Government to borrow on concessionary
terms and to restrict borrowing to that required for priority investments. In
addition to factors described above (para. 10) which were responsible for the
build up of external public debt, the debt management problem in Sudan is also
one of knowledge - the multiplicity of agencies in the Government dealing
with some aspects of data collection or debt management makes it difficult
to obtain a comprehensive and accurate picture of Sudan's external debt trans-
actions. New procedures to ensure better debt management were introduced by
a decree issued in February 1976 which confined the authority to contract
foreign loans to the Ministries of Finance and Planning. The Bank in July
1976 presented the Sudanese Government with an analysis of Sudan's debt data
and made recommendations for the centralization and analysis of such data.
Further discussions on this question are planned during the course of the
economic mission, currently in Sudan.
Short- and Long-Term Prospects
15.       The preceding discussion shows the Sudanese economy to be in a tran-
sitional situation from a slowly growing economy, heavily dependent on the
fortunes of a single crop (cotton) and hindered by physical bottlenecks,
especially in transportation, to a more rapidly growing economy with more
diversified production and exports. The process of change is hindered by
serious deficiencies in the policy framework and is accompanied by serious
financial problems. While the budgetary and balance of payments problems
facing the economy are acute and deeply rooted, it is nevertheless imperative
for the Government to take steps to improve parastatal efficiency, encourage



-6-
public sector savings, and maintain more effective balance of payments and debt
management policies. The IMF is currently having discussions with the Govern-
ment on the short-run economic problems.
16.       The medium- to long-run objectives of the Sudanese Government, as
expressed in the Six-Year Plan, whose implementation began on July 1, 1977,
include a rapid increase in the growth of GDP (7.5% per annum in 1977-83),
and emphasis on redressing regional inequalities in incomes. During the plan
period, development strategy will continue to emphasize agriculture as the
leading sector, but its structural interdependence with other sectors, par-
ticularly manufacturing will be stressed through agricultural processing,
the production of basic agricultural inputs and implements, and the promotion
of small scale and cottage industry. Considerable investment will also go
into further reduction and removal of critical bottlenecks in physical and
institutional infrastructure.
17.       Because of the balance of payments and budgetary difficulties, the
growth prospects of Sudan depend significantly on foreign capital inflows
and on policies to encourage private investment. Indeed, one of the crucial
assumptions underlying the Government's plan is the expectation of large in-
flow of loan and equity capital. The realization of this expectation, in
turn, will depend significantly on the role played by the oil-rich Arab
countries. In the last few years the Arab countries have emerged as the
largest source of capital assistance to Sudan. On a disbursement basis,
Arab aid (excluding a $200 million Euro-dollar loan guaranteed by Saudi
Arabia) increased from $33 million in 1972 to a peak of $220 million in 1974.
Whilst a large proportion of these disbursements has been for balance of
payments support, Arab assistance has been vital in such key projects as the
Rahad Irrigation Project, the oil-pipeline, the airport at Port Sudan, a
number of highway projects, sugar schemes and a microwave project. For the
future, of much potential significance is the ten-year Basic Agricultural
Development Program for the Sudan, prepared by the Arab Fund for Social and
Economic Development. Over the next six years (1977-83) a First Phase Invest-
ment Plan, which forms the core of Sudan's Six-Year Development Plan and
consists of some 61 projects selected from the basic program, is expected to
be implemented at a total cost of about $2 billion. To help implement the
agricultural program, twelve Arab Governments on November 1, 1976 signed an
agreement establishing an autonomous body, the Arab Authority for Agricultural
Investment and Development (AAAID). The authorized capital for AAAID has been
established at US$510 million, of which 75 percent has been subscribed. The
Authority is limited to a debt/ equity ratio of 2:1. An appointment has re-
cently been made to the post of President of AAAID.
18.       To support the directly productive investment envisaged by the Arab
Fund's program, large amounts of concessionary loans and grants will be needed
to finance infrastructural projects. Official bilateral and multilateral
agencies, including Arab agencies, are expected to contribute to the program.
Several donor agencies which have lent to Sudan in the past are expanding their
programs and others are starting programs in Sudan for the first time. Local
cost financing is justified in certain cases for projects with a high local



cost component and which are designed primarily to benefit the poor. These
are likely to be located primarily in Southern and Western Sudan, the least
developed areas of the country.
19.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, momentum has been injected into Sudan's economic
development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment during the last
three years. However, Sudan faces severe balance of payments and domestic
resource mobilization problems in the short run. Whilst these are familiar
problems in several developing countries, they are especially acute in the
Sudan. The country's medium-term prospects, however, look particularly
bright. These opportunities derive not only from the availability of foreign
capital, but also from the basic agronomic and human potential of the country.
However, basic policy decisions, some of which have been outlined in the
preceding pages, will have to be made if these prospects are to be realized.
The Government has shown its willingness in recent months to discuss openly
the economic problems facing the country, and it is our hope that it will
follow this up with policy measures to address them. For the immediate
future, the Bank can assist the Sudan to maintain the momentum of develop-
ment by helping channel resources into the priority sectors in our project
work, by extending technical assistance to improve project identification,
preparation and implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue on
policy issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $439.1
million. Emphasis in our past lending has been on irrigated agriculture and
railway development, but other projects financed have included two power
projects, two education projects, a highways project, a domestic aviation
project, four agricultural projects, two credits to a development finance
company a livestock marketing project, a ports project and a technical
assistance credit. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of April 30, 1978 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. The Bank/IDA share of debt service is 10% and of debt
outstanding is 11% (1976). We estimate the Bank/IDA share of debt service
will fall to about 5% in 1985, when the Bank/IDA share of debt outstanding
would be about 12%.
21.       Physical progress in implementing Bank group operations in the Sudan
varies, but in general is quite good. Most projects have experienced diffi-
culty in getting key materials such as cement, motor fuels and timber, of
which there is a nationwide shortage. Most projects have also experienced
delays in delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation deficien-
cies. But, with few exceptions, these difficulties have been manageable. The
Rahad Irrigation Project, which earlier experienced numerous difficulties,
is being constructed with real determination, and phase 1 was inaugurated in
December 1977 by President Nimeiry. Although physical progress under the Third



Railway Project is satisfactory, progress in achieving the operational improve-
ment has been disappointing. Management of the education projects continues
to be weak. Disbursements on IDA credits to Sudan are running at a rate of
about $35 million per annum.
22.       In view of the improved availability of funds for investment in
Sudan, the Bank Group can render a useful service by assisting with the
identification and preparation of a relatively large number of projects,
and by actively associating bilateral and other multilateral sources with
the financing of these projects. The Technical Assistance credit approved
by the Board in February 1976 is designed to assist in this way. The pro-
gress of this project is good and several preparation studies have been
authorized under this credit. The Consultative Group last met in November
1976, and the various agencies represented indicated levels of lending to
Sudan which will make a significant contribution to maintaining the level
of investment. The timing of the next consultative group meeting is under
discussion.
23.       The Bank Group's lending strategy in Sudan will continue to empha-
size agriculture and infrastructure investments. Within agriculture we
expect to continue with a two-pronged strategy of investment to realize
existing production potential in the modern sector, while laying the founda-
tions for future production increases in the traditional agriculture sector.
We are assisting the Government to prepare projects designed to make existing
irrigation schemes more productive, and projects directed at smallholder
schemes and rainfed mechanized farming. The Second Education Project now
under implementation emphasizes training in the rural areas. Identification
of future education projects on the basis of the recently completed sector
survey is making headway. Lack of transport facilities continues to hamper
movement of goods within the country and to the outside world. A second
highway project is under appraisal, and included in most agriculture projects
is a feeder road component. The Bank recently approved IDA financing for a
fourth railway project (June 1977), a port project (March 1978) and a third
mechanized farming project (May 1978). With the two credits to the Industrial
Bank of Sudan, the Bank Group is supporting private investment in the growing
industrial sector. Other projects under consideration include power and
water supply and agricultural credit.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Current Significance of Agriculture
24.       Agriculture contributes about 40% of Sudan's gross domestic product;
over 95% of export receipts; about 75% of employment; about 90% of the raw
materials for the industrial sector; and a substantial proportion of govern-
ment revenues. The crucial nature of the sector to Sudan's development and
the perceived potential of the sector has called for careful and continuing
analysis. The last Bank analysis of the sector (apart from a significant
contribution to the ILO Report - see below) was contained in Volume III of the
Economic Report on the Sudan, dated June 9, 1972 (AE-27)). Since then analysis



- 9 -
of the sector has continued in the Government's own agencies; in the Country
Perspective Study carried out by FAO in 1973, which explored alternative
agricultural development strategies up to 1985 or 1990; in the study of the
investment requirements of the sector carried out by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development; and in the 1975 ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy
Mission. The Bank is currently carrying out an agricultural sector review of
Sudan.
The Resource Base
25.       Of the total area of the Sudan (250 million hectares) about one-
third is suitable for crop and pastoral farming. At present most of this area
is used as range lands. Approximately 11 million hectares are cultivated and
of this area about 1.7 million hectares irrigated. Approximately 35 million
hectares is potentially arable. The use of Nile waters is governed by the 1959
Nile Waters Agreement Metween Sudan and Egypt, under which Sudan3is entitled
to use 18.5 milliard m measured at Aswan (about 20.5 milliard m measured
at Sennar). Current consumption is about two-thirds of Sudan's entitlement.
Current and planned investment will raise Sudan's consumption towards its
entitlement, and Sudan and Egypt jointly are starting conservation works aimed
at reducing losses of Nile Water due to evaporation and seepage. The size and
location of the country, extending from the dry tropical zone into the equator-
ial zone, mean that a great variety of agricultural produce can be grown in
the country, from cereals, cotton and oil seeds of the dry tropical regions
to tea, coffee, rice and other equatorial produce in the south. Large areas
of the Savannah belt are suitable for rearing cattle and sheep.
Current Pattern of Production'
26.       There are three main types of agriculture in the Sudan.  Irrigated
agriculture is limited mainly to the area between and either side of the
White and Blue Niles upstream of their confluence, and to some smaller areas
irrigated by the Main Nile, Atbara and other rivers. Current expansion of
irrigated agriculture is almost entirely in this area. The irrigated areas
produce nearly all of the long staple and medium staple cotton grown in the
Sudan, and also produce groundnuts, sugarcane, wheat and other grains, pulses
fruit and vegetables. The Bank was involved, in the past, in some of the
major expansions in irrigated agriculture in the 1960s and in the building
of the Roseires dam which is providing water for further expansion. Rainfed
agriculture has been developed mainly in the region lying on each side of
the Blue Nile, towards the Ethiopian frontier and in Southern Kordofan. Much
of this agriculture is mechanized, due to the nature of the soils (heavy clay)
and the very large areas involved. The principal crops here are sorghum, short
staple cotton and sesame. In the center and west of the country and in the
whole of the southern region subsistence agriculture is dominant; the major
staple crops being millet and sorghum in the savannah; and sorghum, maize and
cassava in the South. Although traditional crop/livestock farming and pastor-
alism prevail, the sector nevertheless contributes significantly to exports of



- 10 -
groundnuts, gum arabic and livestock. However, marketing and transportation
difficulties limit the return to the livestock producer, and there are large
disparities between the earnings of those engaged in traditional agricultural
and livestock production and the earnings of the owners and tenants of mechan-
ized and irrigated farms. This in turn means that there are large regional
differences in income levels, although these are ameliorated somewhat by
seasonal employment in the modern sector schemes.
27.       In the eight years 1967-75, the area under cotton was stable.  In
1976 the area declined about 10% as part of a conscious decision to diversify
agricultural production. In the same period, the area under several other
crops has increased significantly--sorghum/millet by 47%, groundnuts by 140%,
sesame by 82% and wheat by 170%. These acreage expansions are largely re-
sponsible for the increase in production, yields having stagnated. Diversifi-
cation away from cotton is expected to continue, with sugar emerging as an
important crop. As mentioned above, Sudan's exports are almost entirely
agricultural produce and livestock. Cotton has normally accounted for about
60% of total exports, oil seeds 17%, gum arabic about 8%, livestock products
7% and oil cake 6%. However, imports of agricultural produce have also been
significant, amounting to about 18% of total imports by 1970, rising to more
than 25% by 1974. During the period of very high prices of sugar and wheat,
imports of these products imposed a severe strain on Sudan's balance of pay-
ments and domestic finances. In view of the potential for further agricul-
tural production and of the problems caused by imports of agricultural
produce, Sudan is giving high priority to the expansion of agricultural
exports and the achievement of self-sufficiency in presently imported agri-
cultural commodities.
Organization
28.       Commercial farming in the Sudan is carried out largely under the
authority of state corporations--the Gezira Board, the Rahad Corporation, the
Public Agricultural Production Corporation in the field of irrigated agricul-
ture and the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC) in the field of dryland
farming. The Cotton Public Corporation, Oil Seeds Company and the Gum Arabic
Company provide particular services to the cotton, oil seeds and gum arabic
producers, and the Agricultural Bank of Sudan provides credit to a relatively
small number of farmers. The irrigation corporations exercise very close
control over farming carried out in the areas under their supervision, pre-
scribing the rotation system, the crops to be grown and the planting times;
providing credit and specialized services such as crop-spraying, and having in
some cases monopoly purchasing power over the crops produced. Another group
of corporations controls both domestic and foreign trade in many agricultural
and livestock products, applying state pricing policies. Subsistence agricul-
ture and livestock rearing operate more independently but nevertheless they
are much influenced by the policies, including prices, set by the state-owned
or licensed corporations. In 1976, legislation was introduced to encourage
Sudanese and foreign private sector investment in agriculture. A number of
such investments have already been undertaken, which will introduce a new
influence into the agriculture sector.



- 11 -
29.       Ministerial supervision is exercised through two ministries, the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources (Agriculture) and the
Ministry of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power. The Ministry of Agriculture
provides a large range of services to the agriculture and livestock sectors
and is well staffed in certain fields. In other fields, such as extension or
range management, the institutions and manpower are inadequate. The Ministry
of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power is, on the whole, well staffed and
competent, with much experience in the construction and operation of large
scale irrigation schemes.
Sectoral Problems
30.       The great potential for agricultural expansion poses difficult
questions of choice both for existing production and in regard to new invest-
ment. For example, development of new irrigated areas means a high level of
investment, a higher output per hectare and considerable employment generation.
Improvement of existing irrigated agriculture requires less investment and can
bring a high rate of return, but, without reduced tenancy sizes, will increase
incomes already quite high by Sudanese standards and generate relatively little
employment. Mechanized dryland farming also requires less capital investment
than irrigated agriculture, and provides less employment but also mobilizes
private capital for agricultural development. All three types of agricultural
development can yield large foreign exchange earnings and savings. Development
of subsistence agriculture and livestock may contribute less to exports in the
short term, but can do much for the incomes of the poorest people in Sudan.
(It is worth noting, that about one third of Sudan's groundnut and nearly
all of the gum arabic and livestock exports are generated in the traditional
sector.) Given the vast areas of land remaining to be brought into more pro-
ductive use, and the nature of some of the soils, a high level of mechanization
may well be justified. But a way has to be found to ensure that the poorer
people benefit from the resulting higher productivity. The degree of mechani-
zation will also partly depend on the availability of seasonal labor, on which
modern agriculture currently depends heavily. Labor is remarkably mobile in
Sudan, but upgrading of agriculture in the poorer parts of the country could
have the effect of reducing the willingness of labor to make the long journey
to obtain seasonal employment. A further problem concerns the pricing system
in the sector. The current incentive system does not favor agricultural ex-
ports, while the relationship between the irrigatiot corporations and tenants
is not always conducive to higher yields, nor does it encourage responsiveness
to market demand.
31.       Large complementary investment will be required in transportation,
storage, credit, marketing facilities and research to meet the needs of the
planned expansion in agricultural production. Currently, agricultural re-
search is concentrated principally on irrigated agriculture, especially
cotton production. Investment in research concerned with rainfed agricul-
ture urgently requires expansion (see paras. 34 and 35 and Part IV below).
Output of high-level agriculture staff from existing and planned agriculture
training establishments is expected to be adequate, but a large training
requirement remains at the lower levels.



- 12 -
Investment Objectives
32.       Current public investment is directed, firstly, at the expansion of
wheat and sugar production to remove the necessity for imports and to generate
exports; secondly, at the expansion of medium staple cotton and groundnut pro-
duction in the Rahad project; and thirdly, at expansion of mechanized dryland
farming to produce sorghum and sesame. Private investment in mechanized
farming and in the production of groundnuts in the traditional sector is also
expected to expand rapidly. In the South progress in the rehabilitation of
agriculture has been reasonable with assistance from an IDA financed and other
projects. The current focus of livestock development is on marketing, export
quality improvements, production research and disease control generally. In
considering how to realize its agricultural potential, Sudan has to find the
right balance between a range of priorities and development alternatives,
which sometimes conflict. To provide the foreign exchange for its investment
program in all sectors and to service its debt, high priority will be given
to agricultural production and processing for the export market. This type of
investment is likely to absorb the bulk of the available resources. To assist
in the mobilization of funds, the Government expects, and will encourage, an
increasing role for the private sector--in self-contained modern sector
schemes, in the mechanized farming schemes for which the public sector would
provide the essential infrastructure and services, and for the tenants on the
irrigation schemes, who would be encouraged through an improved system of in-
centives. To help redress the regional disparities in incomes, the Government
will give priority to the development of subsistence agriculture. However,
this form of investment is unlikely initially to absorb a large proportion of
the available funds, due to the many constraints which can only be overcome
slowly. Some modern sector schemes will be located in the West and South,
which would also help to reduce regional income disparities.
33.       Of particular importance to the future development of agriculture
in Sudan will be the Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Develop-
ment, a financing agency which has been established to help implement the
development proposals made by the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Develop-
ment. The principal objective will be production for export to the Arab
World, but the program recognizes the need for balanced development among
the regions (para. 17).
Agricultural Research
34.       Overall responsibility for research policy in Sudan is vested in
the National Council for Research, a high-level policy making body headed by
a president of cabinet rank. The National Council acts as an adviser and
consultant to the Government, its agencies, public corporations, and to the
private sector in matters related to scientific research. Agricultural
research is mainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food
and Natural Resources. The research is carried out by the Agricultural
Research Corporation (ARC), the Animal Production Research Administration
(APRA) and the Veterinary Research Administration. In addition, some agro-
nomic and social science research is carried out by the Faculties of Agri-
culture, Veterinary Science, Animal Husbandry, Economics and Social Sciences



- 13 -
and the Development Studies Institute at the University of Khartoum. ARC and
APRA have a total of about 300 senior research scientists and a total recur-
rent budget of $8.8 million equivalent per annum.
35.       Agriculture research in Sudan started with the Gezira Research
Station in the 1920s and the primary focus and achievements have remained in
the field of irrigated agriculture, especially cotton. Although research
directed at rainfed farming and livestock has made a beginning, the resources
made available for such research are not commensurate with either the current
levels of production under rainfed conditions or with the potential and
importance of this form of agriculture in Sudan. For example, the arid and
semi-arid areas of Western Sudan, which cover about 35% of the total area
of Sudan and contain about 30% of the total population, produce 90% of the
Sudan's millet, 50% of the sesame, 45% of the groundnuts, nearly 20% of the
sorghum, 90% of the gum arabic, 45% of the cattle and 35% of the sheep and
goats. Yet despite the possibility of much higher yields, expenditure on
agricultural research in Western Sudan currently only accounts for about 5%
of the total expenditure on agricultural research. The proposed project
will begin to redress this imbalance. There has been a similar paucity of
agricultural research in the higher rainfall regions of Southern Sudan, and
the next priority will be to expand research in that region.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Description
36.       The proposed project has emerged from work initiated by Sudan in
1975. At Sudan's request, the Ford Foundation studied selected crop and dis-
cipline research capabilities and suggested ways to strengthen agricultural
research and related services. The Ford Foundation's findings were discussed
at an international workshop in Khartoum in November 1976. Subsequently, a
joint team of Sudanese and American scientists under the auspices of the
International Agricultural Development Service (IADS), and supported by the
Ford Foundation, prepared a master plan for strengthening the national cap-
ability for research and for application of improved technology. This plan
has been adopted as a blue-print for the agricultural research policies and
programs of Sudan. The proposed project, which focuses on the arid and semi-
arid areas of Western Sudan, would fit well into this general framework and
make a major contribution to implementation of the master plan. Project
preparation was assisted by a Bank mission in the first half of 1977 and
appraised in October 1977. Negotiations were held in Khartoum in early May
1978. The Sudanese negotiating team included the under Secretary of the
Ministry of National Planning and the Deputy Director for Planning of ARC.
The ARC staff member nominated for the post of Project Director was also
present. USAID was represented at negotiations by observers. A staff
appraisal report (No. 2005-SU) is being circulated separately.
37.       The varied natural conditions and economic behavior of the inhabit-
ants in Western Sudan are differentiated into five agro-pastoral production
systems, of which two are purely pastoral and three crop/livestock combinations.



- 14 -
(a) arid livestock production at the desert fringe;
(b) semi-arid livestock production in the south of the
Project area, interspersed with crop production;
(c) integrated crop/livestock production on stabilized sands;
(d) integrated crop/livestock production on non-cracking clays;
and
(e) integrated crop/livestock production on cracking clays.
38.       Over a six-year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement a research program in this region and expand support services at
ARC's new Khartoum headquarters. In particular, the Project would provide
for:
(a) the development and operation of production systems research at el
Obeid (integrated crop/livestock on non-cracking clays); at Kadugli
(integrated crop/livestock on cracking clays); at el Fasher (arid
livestock); and at Ghazala Gawazat (integrated crop/livestock
and semi-arid livestock on stabilized sands) in close cooperation
with the Western Savannah Development Corporation;
(b) water and land use management research and socio-economic research
based at Nyala, but providing coverage of the entire project area
through outposting of staff;
(c) development of an ARC research center and regional headquarters at
Nyala; and of research stations at el Obeid, Kadugli and el Fasher,
complete with 7 mobile research units;
(d) strengthening of ARC's headquarters, which would be moved from Wad
Medani to accommodation in Khartoum, to enable it to effectively
direct and administer a balanced, nationwide agricultural research
program, by creation of a Planning and Evaluation Unit and a Project
Support Unit;
(e) technical assistance consisting of 10 internationally recruited
specialists (49 manyears), short term consultancies ($0.4 million)
contract research ($0.5 million), 28 research fellowships for Sudanese
scientists ($0.5 million), building consultants ($1.0 million) and
limited funds for attendance at seminars and conferences; and
(f) an aircraft, to permit the research staff to travel widely over the
very large distances in western Sudan.
39.       Taking the five agro-pastoral production systems referred to in para.
37, in turn, the project would have the following research objectives. First,
the potential for improving the productivity of the fragile, but highly adapted,
system at the desert fringe, through technical innovations, must be regarded
as limited, but studies of range condition and trend and measures to improve
them would be pursued with a view to stopping the advance of the desert.



- 15 -
Second, in the south of the Project area, the scope for technical innovation
is greater than in the north. The range studies would be directed at better
range, water and livestock management, resulting in higher offtakes and in-
comes. Third, the area of stabilized sands is the most easily cultivated with
traditional methods and has attracted settlement, with increasing population
and the southward movement of formerly nomadic people under the pressure of
drought. The research program will seek to evolve a sustainable crop/livestock
production system in an area which is otherwise threatened by over-cultivation
and grazing. Fourth, the non-cracking clays are used mainly for livestock, or
water catchments, and are capable of providing range grasses and browse of
high mineral content. The hard surface pan of these basically fertile soils
prevents their use by smallholders. Crop production research would include
millet and focus on improved tillage technology. Research on gum arabic would
be carried out. Fifth, the cracking clays have the greatest developmental
potential of all the production systems under consideration and the focus of
research would be on a variety of crops, tillage techniques, fodder conserva-
tion for dry season use and livestock improvement. Sixth, the water and land
use management research program would develop rational land use plans designed
to make the most efficient use of the limited rainfall. Socio-economic sup-
port would be extended to the research teams in matters concerning economic
and human factors. Finally, research liaison officers would be responsible
for adapting technology packages emerging from the research programs to
practical farming conditions, and for preparing materials in appropriate
language for extension staff.
40.       The principal links to extension agents would initially be with
the staff of three public corporations. The extension service outside these
corporations remains weak. The Nuba Mountains Agricultural Production Cor-
poration supports small-holder production, with cotton as the principal cash
crop, on the cracking clay soils in Southern Kordofan. The Mechanized Farm-
ing Corporation (MFC) supports large-scale production in the same province,
and is preparing to establish a new development center at el Fuda, also in
Southern Kordofan. IDA financing for this development under a third credit
for MFC was approved in May 1978. The Western Savannah Development Corpora-
tion (WSDC) is being established in South Darfur to execute two major rural
development projects, including the Savannah Development Project, financed
partly by IDA. WSDC will operate a sizeable program of crop and livestock
trials at Ghazala Gawazat and this station would in fact be responsible for
both the integrated crop/livestock research program on stabilized sands and
the semi-arid livestock production research program described above.
Implementation
41.       The Project would be implemented in two distinct phases:  (a) the
development phase of three years, which would mainly be concerned with
preparatory activities for the second phase such as research program and
budgetary planning, design of Project monitoring and evaluation, and Project
reporting,construction of research facilities, the procurement of vehicles,
aircraft and equipment, and the hiring of scientific and support staff;
(b) the research phase which would comprise the full-scale launching of
research programs for the last three Project years. This is considered the
minimum period within which significant research results can be expected. It
would be preceded by a mid-term Project review by a panel including three



- 16 -
distinguished international scientists and representatives of USAID and IDA
(Section 3.04 of the Credit Agreement). This panel would also assess the
procedures and schedule for the transfer of the research component from the
Western Savannah Development Corporation to ARC, as provided for under that
project (Cr. 718). A second Project review would be arranged in Year 6 when
first research results would be forthcoming, and when the stage would have to
be set for the future agricultural research programs in the West.
Organization and Management
42.       ARC's Director General would have overall responsibility for Project
implementation. He would be the chairman of the Project Advisory Council
(para. 44), nominate a Project Director candidate to the Minister of Agricul-
ture and IDA; approve annual work plans, budgets, staff appointments; and take
responsibility for research program planning and budgeting, and the monitoring
and evaluation systems. Day-to-day management of the Project would be the
responsibility of the Project Director to be stationed at Nyala. He would
direct and coordinate the agricultural research programs in the West, and also
direct the Project-financed units at the ARC headquarters at Khartoum. He
would be supported by the Deputy Project Director, Production Systems Research
Specialist and the Station Superintendent. Substations would be managed by
the sub-program leaders, supported by farm managers. The water and land use
research program at Nyala would be coordinated by its program leader. In
order to facilitate the integrated crop/livestock research approach adopted
for the project, the Government has undertaken to integrate fully all agricul-
tural and animal production research (Section 3.02(c) of the Credit Agreement).
43.       A firm of architects would be hired to prepare the building plans,
assist in the tendering process and supervise construction; they would be
supervised by the project architect who would also assist ARC in other build-
ing matters. Resident site supervision would be provided by the Ministry
of Construction and Public Works with customary periodic supervision by the
executive architects. Government has given an assurance that it would trans-
fer the land required for construction to ARC and provide utilities (water,
roads, and electricity) to the construction site without extra cost to the
project.
44.       A Project Advisory Council would assist in identifying priority
problems and needs, in planning the research programs and in encouraging the
most effective dissemination and application of improved technology. This
council, which would meet once a year, would be chaired by ARC's Director
General, and the Project Director would be its Secretary; it would also in-
clude representatives of the Animal Resources Department of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources; the Agricultural Extension Service;
the University of Khartoum; WSDC; the relevant international agricultural re-
search centers such as ICRISAT, ILCA, ICARDA, and the Provincial Commissioners.
Staffing and Training
45.       Sudan has a strong cadre of agricultural research scientists.  The
supply of qualified staff is expanding steadily, with about 200 B.S. graduates
and about 50 M.S. graduates annually from the Agriculture and Veterinary
schools of the University of Khartoum. Other colleges are training agricul-
tural and veterinary technicians and plans for further expansion in such



- 17 -
formal training are well advanced. The project would require 46 scientists
and senior staff, and about 90 technical support staff. Some of the special-
ists required are not yet available among Sudanese scientists, and provision
has been made for international recruitment for 10 posts. The project would
provide funds for 28 overseas research fellowships for scientific staff
engaged in the project. Under the USAID grant, a technical assistance agree-
ment would be signed with a group of US universities providing for the supply
of some key scientific staff and for training programs. Staff for the ARC
headquarters are expected to be recruited from IADS. As with other projects
being implemented in Western Sudan, financial and other incentives would be
necessary to induce staff to work in the relatively remote research stations.
ARC is studying the requirements, and it would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Credit Agreement that this study has been completed and that ARC has
adopted adequate incentives for its staff (Section 5.01(d) of the Credit
Agreement). Appointments for key staff would be for at least 2 years or 5
years, depending on the position (Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement), and
appointments to the posts of Project Director, Deputy Project Director and
Senior Research Adviser would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(a)
of the Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financing
46.       Project costs, including taxes and duties amounting to about $6.8
million, are estimated at US$45.4 million over the six year implementation
period. Provision for physical contingencies and for future price increases
amount to $11.5 million. The foreign exchange component amounts to US$26.3
million or about 63% of net project cost. The cost of the project is high as
a result of the almost total absence of research facilities in Western Sudan,
the consequent need for a large building program and the high costs of build-
ing in this region. The unit costs of internationally recruited staff is
estimated at $72,000 per man-year. The proposed $15 million IDA Credit would
finance 62% of the foreign exchange costs; this would correspond to about
39% of net Project costs. USAID is expected to make a grant for the project
of US$20.0 million, or 52% of net project costs. Government would contribute
the remaining US$3.6 million ($10.4 million, including taxes and duties) or 9%
of net Project costs. The IDA, USAID and Government contributions would be
channelled as a grant directly to the ARC, which would establish a separate
bank account for the Project. Government would deposit into ARC's Project
account an initial sum of LSd 200,000 for start-up expenditures. Government
would credit the Project account every six months with the operating funds
required but major investment items would be paid directly from the IDA Credit
and USAID grant or be reimbursed to the Project account upon appropriate
documentation. Satisfaction of the effectiveness conditions of the USAID
financing and deposit of the LSd 200,000 in the Project account would be
conditions of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement (Section 5.01 of the
Credit Agreement).
47.       Following Project completion in Year 6, annual recurrent costs for
the continuation of the research programs are estimated at US$3.3 million
in 1983 terms compared to current Government allocations of US$0.4 million.
Sales would be negligible, so that Government would have to provide an
additional US$2.9 million annually in 1983 projected prices. Although a



- 18 -
substantial increase, the expenditure would remain less than 20% of the total
expenditures on agriculture research (see para 55 below). With a view to
the long-term financing of agricultural research, the government would make
proposals at the mid-term review of the Project for financial contributions to
be levied from beneficiaries, especially the major corporations and companies
(Section 3.05 of the Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements 1/
48.       The IDA credit would finance the civil works component and the air-
craft and aircraft operating costs.  Procurement of the civil works and air-
craft would be by ICB, in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Tenders
would be grouped in order to attract major international and/or local con-
tractors and suppliers and this would be monitored through the annual work
programs to be submitted to IDA. In the case of contracts of less than
US$75,000 but more than US$10,000, procurement would be through competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. For contracts
under US$10,000, direct competitive purchasing would be employed. The items
to be financed by USAID (equipment, vehicles, consultants, non-sudanese staff
etc.) would be procured under USAID's regulations. The services of inter-
nationally recruited staff, executive architects, short-term consultants and
contracted research institutions, which are estimated to cost about US$5.0
million, would be obtained on contracts of a duration acceptable to IDA and
USAID. The Government would, upon ARC's request, promptly grant the necessary
import licenses and foreign exchange for the Project.
49.       The IDA credit would be disbursed against 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for the civil works, aircraft and directly imported aircraft spare parts
and services and against 60% of the locally procured aircraft operating costs.
Disburement for aircraft operating costs would be made against certificates
of expenditure, the documentation being retained for inspection by IDA super-
vision missions.
Accounts and Audit
50.       ARC would establish a Project accounting system which would reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained and sound practices, a true and
fair view of the use of funds for each of the different programs in the West
and for the ARC headquarters in Khartoum. Project accounts would be consoli-
dated at the Nyala headquarters. All accounts would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; their reports would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Planning, Programming and Budgeting
51.       Beginning with Year 2, annual work plans and budgets would be pre-
pared for the Project three months in advance of the beginning of the next
fiscal year. Detailed proposals would be made for the allocation of funds to
each research program and station on a quarterly basis. Progress would be
monitored against this plan and budget, and quarterly progress reports would
be forwarded to IDA.
1/   Amounts expressed without contingencies.



- 19 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
52.       The Planning and Evaluation Unit in ARC would design and implement
a research project monitoring and evaluation system for general use for all
ARC programs.
Environmental Impact
53.       The Project would represent a major effort to develop technology for
the sustained productive use of ecologically fragile areas, and would contri-
bute substantially to the evolution of land use practices which would prevent
environmental deterioration.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
54.       Ex-ante measurement of net benefit from research is difficult and
quantifications of the resources required to achieve research results is
highly speculative. The result of a rate of return calculation depends, to
a large extent, on the amount of time that elapses between the expenditure
of resources and the production of useful results, and also on the time-lag
until research results are applied by producers. For these reasons no rate
of return calculation has been attempted for this project. However, there
is little reason to doubt the Justification of the project.
55.       Although Sudanese agricultural research expenditures fall short of
the 1% of agricultural output that is a generally accepted norm, the Sudan
spends about 0.6-0.7% on agricultural research and extension, and this is much
higher than the 0.25% quoted as an average for developing countries in 1975.
The research program in the West would require no more than about 0.5% of
the value of agricultural production in the long-term, and would, therefore,
fall well within the accepted range. To extend the same intensity of research
coverage to other neglected areas, such as the South and the East, would
increase the total budgetary requirements to about US$20 million annually (in
1983 terms) or less than 1% of agricultural output. Relating research expen-
diture to current output in fact overstates the position in view of the
low output in comparison to the untapped potential. In view of the large
agricultural resources of Sudan, the priority being assigned to agricultural
research is fully justified. Additionally, the extent to which a country
can benefit by adopting research findings from abroad depends largely on the
degree of sophistication of that country's own research establishment.
56.       For the reasons given above (para. 54), the direct beneficiaries of
the research cannot be identified in advance. However, the research results
would be applicable by about 1 million farming families in Western Sudan whose
present incomes are about US$400 for a family of six, or about the same as the
estimated poverty income level of US$65 per head for the Sudan. Because of
ecological similarities, some of the research findings would also be applic-
able in the East of the Sudan. Indirect benefits would accrue to the economy
generally in the form of incremental foreign exchange earnings, and to the
public sector in the form of additional revenues.
57.       Risks.  There are three kinds of risks which could affect the over-
all success of the Project: (i) implementation risks; (ii) unsatisfactory



- 20 -
transfer of research results to the producer; and (iii) speed of acceptance
and adoption of the new technology by the producer. In order to reduce the
implementation risk, great care was taken to strengthen ARC's management cap-
ability through organizational arrangements, training programs and provision
of technical assistance. Regarding the transfer of research results to the
producer, recent Sudan Government steps to bring more effective extension to
the producer through the WSDC, MFC and Nuba Mountains Agricultural Production
Corporation are commendable. However, these Corporations only cover part of
the area. The Government has about 5 years until the new research begins to
produce results, and this should be used to expand delivery systems in the
region. Discussions about expanding the extension service are taking place
in several contexts, especially a smallholder package project under consid-
eration by IDA. In respect of the third risk, rejection or slow acceptance
of new technology by the producer, measures have been taken to ensure that
research results will be tested under practical farming conditions before
advocating them through the extension system. These risks must be balanced
against the greater certainty that without the Project, the long-term degra-
dation of the West would be accelerated, and the incomes and the way of life
of the inhabitants seriously jeopardized.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Items of particular interest to the Association are indicated at Annex III.
59.       Special conditions of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the Credit
Agreement) would be satisfaction of the conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the USAID grant; adoption by ARC of adequate incentives for its staff;
appointments to three key posts and deposit of an initial sum of LSd 200,000
in the project account.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
June 15, 1978



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page 1 of 4 pages
SUDAN               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -----------  -
----- - --  ----                                 SUDAN                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     2505.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGFIC.      315.0                      1960       197,)  ESTIMATE           KENYA          EGYPT          MOROCCO**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     130.0*   160.0*    290.0*/a              140.0*     170.0*      290.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
PCPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           11.2       14.0       15.9 /a             11.2        33.3        14.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        4.0        6.0        6.0/a              19.0       33.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        37.0       46.0      51.07ha            113.0      1172.0        74.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         50,7       48.9       47.8                49.0       42.1        49.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          24.7       20.2       17.5                17.0        17.0       18.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       159.0         ..      132.0                  *       116.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       41.1       46.1       48.6               49.1        49.9        50.4
GROSS REPkODUCTION RATE                 ..       3.4        3.4                 3.4         3.0         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.3        2.2**      2.2**              3.1         2.6         2.4
URBAN                                   *        5.5        2.2                 6.3         3.6        4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            8.6      11.8        4.6                 9.9        42.1        32.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       47.0/a    45.0        45.0               48.4        44.0        46.4
15 TO 54 YEARS                       51.0 a    52 0        52.0               48.0        52.0        51.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                     201T    3:0           3.0                 3.6         4.0        2.5
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0/a     0.9        0.9                 1.1         0.9         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1. 57     1.5/a                         1-1/a        1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..        ..         ..               66.1       488.0        68.1
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ,.        .          ,.                  ..          ..        3.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         3700.0    4500.0           *-            5100.0/b   83000O/a,b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         86.0       80.0                           go. TN      53 0/a b
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)                                ,,  .  .. -           .         3.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            20 9/C             ..                   ..                       20 0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHLDLS            50,1/7    49:2/b        .2. 5.                          ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             s.o07      S. I7       ..                3.97         *-         4.0o7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.9T,    145Tb                           11.7/C       ..        12.0oT
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         .
% OWNED BY F'IALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        ..                  ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            27820.0/a 14200.0  10880 0                7830.o/d   1910.0/C  12650.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3030. Oad 1740.0    1360.0/b              1470.07T   1640.0o o7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           950.0ae 930.0/c   960.0                   770.0      460.0       660.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         81.0       72.0       88.0               98.0        106.0      102.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0       63.0       60.4                71.0       66.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       24.0/d    23.0                 29.0        16.0       14. 0/C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..        ..                 I.9          .
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       25.0       33.0       40.0               64.0        69.0        52.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      3.0        7.0       11.0                 9.0        33.0        13.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       12.0                13.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      3.0        1.4/e      3.0 /C             2.0        18.0         2.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (l)                   .-       15.0        *-                30.0           -        21.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..       2.5/d        ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                 36.0/d,f
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..      26.0/d..    ..                   ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRIP-TY(X...                                          ...
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           1.0         ..      ao.o /d             48.0       132.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            1.0        2.0        2.07               9.0         4.0        15.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             8.0         ,        20.0               68.0       228.0       128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1        0.2        0.2                0.5         1.0         0.2
------- -- ------ -- ---- ----- ------- - ---- ----- - ---- ----__ ------- -_ --_ --  __ _ __ -_ ____ _ ---_ --__ - ----__ -_ _- -_ __- - - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-  :22   -                                                dRA   I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Mont Recent Estimate between
1973 snd 1975.
lGNP per capita date are based on the World Bank Atlan =etobdology (1974-76 basi)
an Due to enigration population growth rate ja lower than the rate of nataral Ltct.see.
coo   Sorocco h. baeeo aelected as an abJective country becaut e of certain similarities  (0i1c  of population, tack of population pressare, iportance of
agriculture, meober of Arcb world, and access to OPEC aeriatance), and hba  reached a stage of developoes.  to whirh the Sudan might capir  in the
medi   term.
S51AU        19bO    Ia  1962;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total Labor force;    /c  1963, Ocduroan urban;    /d  Including
asaietact nurses;    /e  Glovsrnent hospital eatablish.ents.
1970      a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sad over to total labor force;    Lb  1967-68;    /c  Governament hospital establiabments;
/d  1964-66;    /e  Begincing 1970, the duration of general secondary ed-cation  sar reduced fron 8 to 6 years;    /f  Urban
only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976i    /b  Including midwives and assistant nureses;    /c  Beginaing 1970, the duration of general
secondary education wac reduced from 8 to 6 yearn;    /d  1972.
tiUYA        1970    L.  Ratio of population under 15 aod 65 and over to labor force ogr 15-59 years;    /b  Labor force age 15-59 years;    /c  Urban
only;    /d  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
iGYPT        1970    Is  1966;    lb  Relates to 12 to 64 years of age;    /c  Registrred, sot all practicIng in the country.
OROCCO        970     /s  Consumption expenditure of households;    Lb  Govern.cat hospital esotblish.osts only;    /c  1964-66.
R10, February 22, 1978
DEFRPITIORI OP SOCLL IAfLtICAlORS
La-d dles  rth.c ke2;                                                                       Pprc.iario  per scrino p.r..  - Ppoplatios, divided by sober of practicing
T-cal - Tutal surface area .cepr,sing land area and toland waters.                            mal  and Senat  grad ce nur   .. ses   trained' or "cerrified"  crase,. nd
Agric  - Mo. t recent esrtimae of  gricultural area ced tesporarily or peIna-                 aumiliary personnel with trsisisg or eperiesre.
.e.tly for crone, p.a-rres,  arket & kierhec gerdens or re Hi  f.llow.                    PopnItion nor hosptal bed - Population  diidad by sber of hospital bed
a-ilable is pubiic and private  . enral and speciatieed hospital and
CGP per cant1 (7U51  - GNP per capita  estio,ttks arcurrenr  oarht price-,                     rehabilitation cenrern, encludas enesing homes and -ssablisihment  for
cairulated by some r      -nverai-n  -ethod as World Ba-k Atlas (1973-75 baai);             coatodial and peevestic care.
i960  1970 and 1975 darte,                                                                pr capi ta acply of -at    riee f% of recieiremnrt) - Compoted frSo energy
euvlnof set food supplite  available in ca"try per capita per day;
popelatios and vit-l  tartioric                                                               acailable s-pplies comprise d-teric prodoction, ioporrt  Ie.. e. portr, and
Poelasioc (nid--ear .filfon)   Ac of July first:  if not available, swerage                   chuc5osinctock; net supplies enclude animal feed, seeds, qoanrittee need
of two end-year ns.t-te.; 1160, 1970 and 1975 da.c.                                         is fuod prcaaa. tog and  luaea in distribuiob  ; rat eiresentr were e.timated
cy PAR base.d cc physiciogicul needs for no-Isa activity and health consid-
"1Ppoto' d..airy  P-pe  n        e   - mid-year popcHrto  per squr  kilometer                 aring environmental t-operoture, body weights, ge and .se  dietributions of
;iOU he ctarn   of total srns.                                                              populatio,  anPd allowing tO  for wastedat houasbaid le1.
PoPciarion density -P"cr ecuare he of asri- land - Co-puced an abone fur                    Per capita aupnev of protein farsas ear day) - Protein _ontant of par capita
sgricolrurai land only.                                                                     net rcpply of food per day; bn; sapply  f fond i  defined as shove: require-
mar  fral   oane  esjtablished by USDA Econoic Research Seroir..
Pita) stariorios                                                                               provide for a mfnioira  allowance of 60 grame of total  protein per day, and
Crude birth race  er thouarnd. avera-e - Annual live birth  per thou-and of                    20 gra  of animal and pulse protein, of which IS gra   shold be ani1
mid-year PFutiaton, sen-year srith-tEr   avensges eoding is 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards are Ioer than those of 75 gr     of total protein
and five-yaea          everafa anding in 1975 for mast recestses iare.                      and 23 gras of eninal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Cr,ir death rate per thoaand, av -rage  -Anna 1 deaths per thosand of nid-year                 in the Third World Food Survey.
populftion; ten-your arithtio averages ending in 1960 sod 1970 and five-                  Per capita protein snppey from animal and polse - Proreti  supply of food
-er average coding in 1975 for cost recent estimate.                                        drived from acnale  and pulses in grams per day.
fant mortality rate (/thba) - Oncoal deathb  of infants  under  -a  year of age            DSoth rat.  (tho-) ayes 1-4 - Annual deatha per thousand in age gromp 1-4
Ier thousand lie bierha.                                                                    years, to ohiidren in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life seorsnny as birth (yre) - Average saber of years of life remaining ot                     malnutrition.
birth; u.nuily five-year aver-gee ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~Eduction
GCer  reorc uctf.on rte -  verage v-ber of Ifve daughter  s untan will bear                  Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary acbohl - Enrol-ie-t of a11 ages  a per-
in her  Ioons  reproduotive period if ahe omperieoses present age-specifir                  restage of primary  -chool-oge population; includes children aged 6-11 years
tertility  rates; us-lly five-year averages e,ding ic 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjuotsd for different lengths of prisary education; for comotriss with
for davolopi,g  Zootriea,.                                                                  onvr        duca tion, enrollment may emceed lOUT since .-  popils see below
pulation Rtwvt rate (7) -             total -   poond annal growth rates of =id-year           orfabove  th e ffioie  scholage.
copulation for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adjusted enrolloent ratio - secondary school - Compated as abcs,  -econdery
Poula.tIon grovth trnt  (,) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                      education requires at leat four yea-rs of approved primary Lstru iton;
'opolatuin; different dofinition  of urban areas nay affect comparability of                provide.  general, vo.ationaI or tee.her training  ustructiou  for pupila
data among countrie,                                                                        of 12 to 17 yearn of age; corre-pondenos  onreas are generally .s.iuded.
urhac population (7, of totall - Ratio of uclas to total population; different              Years of schooling erovided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areac may effect com:phrahility of data anong countrie                 schooling; at secondary level, nocationsl instruction my be partially or
Ace structure (Fortent) - Children (0-14 years), wbrkig-aja (15-64 years),                  lomatisi onrollment (% of serondaryl - VocationAl inetitrtien   include
aod retired (5b years and over) as percentages of  id-ear popul aion-                       t chnir. indugra                            hir  Pre indpd ly or 
mo denocldn.ratio - Ratif  of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                    dep-r oests of  econdary instituttovso
of aco  15 through 64I.                                                                   AduIt liter      o          - Lire  ds(bl  to red and trite)    per-
icni  eeneo   ai   - aRloi of  poplation under 15 and 65 and over ro                    cetage of total adult population soed 15 yeses and over.
che labor force in age group of 15-64 fears.
Paulir nlauofoo -accpscrn fcuaulative. thou) - Cumulative somber of arceptare                Nou-inR
of h;rch-control dericet under auspicet of nattonal family planniug program               Person -er room  (urban) - Average somber of person.  per room  in omopied
tie i-ceprion.                                                                              renvenriomal d_ellings in urban areas; dwellings -r lde no-pernent
Fo ilv planning -      .us   (7 of married wenen) - Pre-entages of narriod women of           structures and unoc-upied pertn.
child-hearsng  ge (15-44 yeses) vh. use birth-rontr-l devi-er to a11 married                  id dbed d-ina with oit h e      ater (7,  -Scupied ronventiona-  dwellings
tone   it -sm  ag  group.                                                                to urbaanrulaes wishon  Inide or outside piped ester f.arlities
Ean perretage of all o"cupied dwellings
rurloymees                                                        Access to elec~~~~~~~~I.tricity (7, of all dwelllgs   - ton-eoio-a  dwellings with
Tots) labor force (thousand) - Egomomically activc  persons, ic,iudirg armed                   electri ity in living quereras e percnt -f total dw ellings in urba  ad
tortes and  -ompIloyed but emiuding hourevives, teudenat, etc.; definitiona                 rural areas.
It rariocs countries sre  eat comparable.                                                   ural d-ellings connected  Ic electricjto (7,   - Cfoputed as above for rural
Lohor fore i   orrltr  (71      5itsitcraI labor forre (in farming, forestry,                  d_weiig    _slo
hou-is0 asd fishing) a peroentage of total Iabor force.
neta,loynd ('b of labor force) - Unployed are unutlly defieed as persona who                Conh.tion
a-e abl and willing to take a Job, out of a Job on a giren day, reined omr               Radio rd celvere (eec thou sOP) - 611 type  of receivers for redio broadcast
of a Job, and ceaking vrk for a specified niniom  period not escaeding one                  to general public per thousand of population; sneode  omlicesd ree
vebk  may not he tompareble between rovotries due to differert definitions                   in comatries sod in years else regiatrartom  of rsdi a.  .    as isat
of cualmpiored and arurce of dars, e        _g,  sploym_nt affice statistics, saple         data for retest years   y not be camparable sice so.t coun            a bolished
conveys, compulsory omomployment Insurance                                                   licening.
Passenger .1car fepr thou pep) - Pssaenger cars coprise met- orcar seating
Ictomsdiettiurluc    Percetage  f privat  incom  )both in .e.h sod kied)             lesta   ight perons  -mldes  abul-nce, hearses and military
rerc-iod by richeat 59  rirhear 207, poort 207%, and Poorest 407, of hous- r nhiniet.
holds.                                                                                      lectricitv fkseisr per cap) - Annu-l toantaption of indsatril, crcial,
Oll'Ilb,                                                                     o:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pbicad private s1-trsiity is Icil seat homes per capita, generally
llattibttfon of anud owne Frahip_- Perentageo of land aened by  ee.lthieet 107                based   pedaction data, ricre h  t            fli   fee   los es in grids bst aliv-
and pcures r  107, of laed aeners.                                                   ing for imports ond eaporta of  -lectriity.
ta reerint  "kalyr per cap) - Per rapirt  -nIusi cne"mption in kbllgre
lool tb and nutrition     -o       tp v         b      bop         ineatimated  from domestic production pins np                           t i porta ef fe sprist.
Porclvtciup,0   s q lr o    a Popleition divioded by_ ou-er oi.f prartiteg
-i, Iao  q-litfied fra     meIcal schoo  at unvrsitY le-si.



-23-                             ANNE  I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%  constant prices)
USS Mln.                                  1970-75             1965 -70           1972
GNP at Market Prices           3,708.4        100.0                         4.5
Gross Domestic I.estment          663.0        17.9                        11.4
Gross National Saving            265.0          7.1                         4.9
Current Account Balance        -417.0         11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS           436.5          11.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           790.0         21.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITT IN 1975
Value Added '                  Labor Force                      V. A. Per Worker
is- Mla , % H 
Agriculture                    1,297.7      41.3
Industry                         298.5       9.5
Services                       1,545.9      49.2
Unallocated
Total/Averag
3,142 .1    i2007                  -00-0
OCVERNMDIT FIYINCE
Goeneral Government                              Central Governmnt
(  X  ln }    t[--of GDP_  =                 US$  Mln. JT% or GDftz 
197           197         196 -7       -Y t915 975                        FY127L72.2
Current Receipts                                                            -720.6                  19.1          23.3
Current E;xpenditure                  __728 6                                                       19.3          22.4
Current Surplus                                                                         -8.0         0.2           0.9
Capital Expenditures 3/                                                                267.3         7.1           4.3
Externa Asda3tance (net)                                                              285.7         7.6           1.1
MONSY, CREDIT andW PRICESS                FY1970        FY1971       FY1.972      FY1973       FY1974       FYl S   FY1976
_rEllion       outsatnding and p riodl'
lone-y and Wasi Money                       123.1         130.6       146.2        190.9         245.2       292.4    368.2
Bank credit to fabUe Sector                  90.1         112.2       139.6        152.6         196.5       329.4    431.5
Bank Credit to P'rivate Sector               60.5          73.1        70.5         92.8         120.3       155.2    216.5
(Pereentaps or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money se S of GDP            211           20.8        18.7         21.9          22.2        20.1
General Price Tndex (1970 - 100)4j/         106.7         108.2       120.9        141.6         178.6       221.4    22S 1
Aramal percentage chages ins
General Prices Tndx                                         1.4        11.7         11 1          26.1        24.0      1.6
Banlc credit to lhu1ic Sector                43 9          24.5        24.4          9 3          28.8       67.6      31.0
Bank credit to Private SacRor                -1.0          20.8        -3.6         31.6          29.6       29.0      39.5
NOTSt AU1 conversions to dollars in this table arat the average exchange rate prevaiUg during the period
cowred.
It Total labor force; unetployed are aIlocated to sector of their normal occuipetion. UnaUlocatsd," consi3ts
mainly of unemployed vorkers seeking their first Job.-
2/ At market prices
3I Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
47 Refers to low salaried cost of living index._
(Less than Lsd 500 per annum).                     not available
_- not applicable
EACPIB
February 22, 1978



-  24  -                       -A x t
Page 4 of 4
AWCS OJP ?AD'fTr ENAUL ASSZMUER AND DM
~aaaa2tI  o aijo     of U.S. L=ras at. current pice"
Avg. Anminal
Actual                         Euimated                                     prJected                          Grwtrh Rate
197.1    u 74            Z1to 9a 7a7                                      - -  1                      1 S5         1973-1980
sc141(48 RAIAT O? PA!oMM3
Dporta (inci. Ns)                     447.5       394.4        436.5        581.7          615.6       703.9        819.7       936.1       1848.7           9.61
TDorts (inal. 7)                      399.0       603.4        790.0        867.7          976.9      1113.8       1261.6      1424.3       2587.2            .21
RBalance (.X:N)              14-                                  -X             -i         -            7=   -         *7 _
Interest (nat)                       -12.5        -20.8       -30.2         -57.4         -70.3        -42.0       -94.0       -106.9      -193.7           30.S2
Other F.c.or Payments                 -17.9       -21.0       -27.6         -15.0          -20.8       -20.0       -23.0        -25.0       -23.0            4.3.
flirect ? r. wtent 1Oo                 -d.2         -8.0       -12.1        -20.0          -20.0       -22.0        -22.0       -22.0        -25.0           13.11
Workwrl R8imttac                                                 -            30.0          34.1         38.7        43.9         49.9        94.5
Cu:r802tEfifes (rut)                    6.2           .4.0.1                  12.012.0 12.0  12.0                                18.0..0M     2Q.0           11.72
tanc1urr.nt Accounts.1                     -27                        33T..         -2425.5     -4411        -326.9 -U9.7
Private Diect  iv.totnt                  -           4.9        10.0          30.0          34.3         39.2        44.8         51.2        99.9           34.12
Official Caplta  Oantr                 10.0         25.1        10.0          30.0          60.0         S4.0        70.0         70.0        88.0           27.51
Public MI1 tan
DIsbursmta                           68.8        314.2       160.3        332.9          402.5       48.6         505.6       344.4        729.5          29.52
-Rents                       -39.8       -37.9        -52.1        -64.2         -114.7      -142.4       -139.1      -135.4      -101.2           15.5%
;           tY         108.276T.3                    27.3                                              Mr 316.2  . 0 6   41.12
Other ?,LT Iane
Dis bur3s- 
-Roen tits
Nt   bSuIrsenuX
Capital Traruactiocw n.e.i.           -32.6         -8.9       225.8          50.0          52.5         55.1        57.9        60.8         77
Charge in Net Asym   (-increai)  -22.5             -39.7        63.0         -42.3          .9.1        -11.0       -12.3        -13.6        2
______  -         ZN=C                                                 z:=         ==Ztua1                    13timated
R wNiaiND LOktl 0029WflEN5                                                        DET AttD DENT SztfYl             1973     1974      1975         1976
Official GantJ &   rant-lk              34.0        35.0         -            30.0         Public DebC Out. & DLaburaad   377.      723.    9,T7           1259.5
PtLaic SWX 13                                                                                ZIOteceat an    lie Debt       14.8     20.6     40.8           33.4
--                                     -            -           -           20.0           Repa7meats an PublLc Det    39.8       37.9      52.1          64.1
IDA                                  46.0         35.0        60.0          13.0          Total Public Debt Service      54.6    19.1       92.9         2".5
Othar                                  .            -           -             -           Other Qebt service (tae)
Othsr Matilatrl                         -         8.0         26.0          80.0           Total Debt Service (nut)      54.6      79.1     92.9          119.5
0oVew!ments                          68.0        170.0       150.0          91.0
Supp7i.                              50.0        54.0        63.0            -          Dardaen an    rt  arnei    (1)
Picil  bUtatutior                   49.0        352.0        61.0
Bonds                                                                                     Public Debt Service            12.2      22.0     21.3          20.5
pNblic loan  n.e.i.                                                                        Total Debt Service              -
7otal FAM PNM M"                                                                             TqS4trect Im.et. Inc.         14.0      25.7    24.1            24.0
Aotwa  Debt OutatAzA.jng on Dme. 31. 1975                  Averge  Teue of Public Debt
_____L DM__                                                    Porcimt
RD                                              7elot. as S Prior Year D06D                                                 4.5       5.4      5.6            5.9
ML                                   33.8                     3.6                              ort. as 2 Prior Ter D006   12.1       10.1      7.2            6.8
Othe  ?altilatera                    51.3                      5.5
0ovrammnnt                          394.2                    41.9                          133D Debt Out. & Disbursed
SUP1er                              81.0                      8.6                             as 7 Public Debt 06D         19.6     11.2      7.8            5.6
?Inctal  institutions               307.3                     32.7                             as 7. Putlic Debt Service    20.7     19.8      12.6           9.4
Bonds
Public Debta a.e.i                     -                        -ID  Debt Out. 6 DLibursed
Total Pblic n4L  Debt              1"                                                           s 2 Public Debt O06          7.8      2.5      3.4            5.0
as 2 Plie Debt 060           0.3       0.5      0.3           0.3
Otber ?SW  Debta
Short-tem Debt (diab. on4)
not applicable                                        Stant  wtimt.
not available                                     -  ndl or nagliible
...  not available eepeztdy                           l-   e   tha hlf the                                                                             1
but icluded In total                                  MLJ.,.t mit shown                                                                       -
ftsr  22, ItS



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATENENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of April 30, 1978)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellation)
Credit No.      Year    Borrower   Purpose                      Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                      127.2   12.4
Credit 122       1968    Sudan       Education I                        8.5        1.4
Credit 311       1972    Sudan       Mechanized Farming II              11.3       5.9
Credit 331       1972    Sudan       Highway I                           7.0       1.0
Credit 364       1973    Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                  42.0        5.2
Credit 364-1    1975    Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)                20.0       20.0
Credit 447       1973    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan I         4.0        0.2
Credit 457       1974    Sudan       Railways III                      24.0        7.1
Credit 476       1974    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Project                    10.7 2/    5.5
Credit 547       1975    Sudan       Education II                      10.0        9.5
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                          23.0        7.0
Credit 589       1975    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II         7.0       4.2
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance               4.0        3.6
Credit 643       1976    Sudan)                                         9.0        8.9
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan)      Domestic Aviation          20.0    -         20.0
Credit 718 3/   1977    Sudan        Savannah Development              17.0       17.0
Credit 727 3/   1977    Sudan)                                          8.0        8.0
Loan 1467T _/   1977    Sudan)       Railway IV                 12.0    -         12.0
Total                                                      159.2  217.9      136.5
of which repaid                                          69.1    4.0
Total now outstanding                                       90.1  213.9
Amount sold                      5.8
of which repaid                5.8                        -
Total held by Bank and IDA 1/                               90.1  213.9
Total Undisbursed                                           32.0  104.5      136.5
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Includes grant participation by Norway $5.35 million, of which
$2.4 million is undisbursed
3/ Not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of April 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                       Type of    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year               Obligor                  Business    Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and
1972      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co. Textiles    1.87   0.34    2.21
1976      Cotton Textile Mills                            8.71   1.27    9.98
1978      Seleit Food Production Ltd                     11.16   1.48   12.64
1978      Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd                 6.69   1.68    8.37
Total gross commitments                   28.43   4.77   33.20
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     6.73   0.07    6.80
Total commitments now held by IFC         21.70   4.70   26.40
Total undisbursed                        20.07   3.28   23.35
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and fifteen credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122    First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays were caused by belated appointment of consultant architects, dif-
ficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses in
management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Work is now proceeding more satisfactorily although supply
shortages continue to interrupt construction. Recently changes were made in
project management.  Cost overruns have been met by reducing the scope of
the project. We are continuing to monitor the project closely with a view
to ensuring that the project is completed by the new closing date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
May 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will help meet priority education needs, principally
in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development of a new
type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Center for schooling in the
rural context. Good progress has been made on the design work and in site
selection and the education sector survey supported under the project has
been completed. Tendering is now under way and costs for some components are
proving to be high. Implementation of the construction program as expected
is proving to be difficult due to the widely scattered locations, but various
expedients are being tried.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan = 1,038 acres) was completed
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended by
75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clear-
ing and area under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other
agencies involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road con-
struction and water supplies has greatly improved, although progress on road
improvements and, in particular, construction of a training center are still
behind schedule. Feasibility studies for further expansion of mechanized
farming have been completed. Disbursements are proceeding steadily. A recent
appraisal of the Mechanized Farming Corporation has revealed some weaknesses
which are being addressed in the context of a third project.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit of March 20,
and            1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364a            and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East Bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of
agricultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settlement of
about 14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary in-
frastructure and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated
in the initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million
each. Significant cost increases, stemming from various causes, occurred
and an increase in the IDA credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved
by the Executive Directors on June 26, 1975. The remaining increase of $81.5
million in the foreign exchange cost is being financed by the Kuwait Fund



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
($39 million), the Saudi Fund for Development ($28 million) and the Arab
Fund ($14.5 million). The Government will meet the increased local cost of
the project, totalling $80 million. Although work got off to a slow sta~rt in
1974, there was good progress in earth-moving, design work and procurement
of equipment in 1975. Since October 1975 implementation has been proceeding
energetically and the settlement and agricultural programs are proceeding on
the revised schedule. Diversion of the first water occurred in July 1977 to
irrigate 60,000 feddans, slightly behind schedule. About 200,000 feddans are
expected to be irrigated in July 1978.
Credit No. 476   Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date:
September 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to
farmers, (ii) expanding extension services, (iii) establishing a center for
nutrition research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production
through a program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also
aims at rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and estab-
lishing the nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit
and technical assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture to implement the project, are also included.
Provision of staff housing and recruitment of staff took some time, but
has now been completed and good progress is now being made. Seed trials
and seed multiplication and cotton planting are under way. Coffee planting
is ahead of schedule. The associated cattle vaccination campaign, financed
largely by the Federal Republic of Germany, is under way, but the dairy and
livestock marketing components have encountered problems. A project review
mission took place in March 1977 and agreement has been reached on a few
modifications to reflect the difficulties encountered and in view of the fact
that the Region is now moving beyond the rehabilitation stage. Disbursements
are expected to be completed shortly behind schedule. The Government of
Norway has taken a participation in this credit amounting to US$5.35 million.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 Million Credit
approved on May 31, 1977; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project, financed by IDA and the Saudi Fund, will finance a
comprehensive agricultural development program in South Darfur Province,
including crop and livestock development, improved water maintenance, project
related agricultural research and creation of a Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC). Effectiveness of the project has been delayed by legal
difficulties in establishing WSDC. These have now been overcome. Project
implementation is just about to begin.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 331   Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corpora-
tion in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials.
Also included were feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Transport in transport planning and training of RBPC staff. The project
is approaching completion, except for the technical assistance component.
To provide time for execution of this component, the closing date has been
extended. Detailed engineering is underway on 550 km of roads shown to be
feasible in the feasibility studies. Financing for these roads is under
consideration by IDA and other financial institutions.
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 Million Credit of January 31,
1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and maintain the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complimentary transport
modes and includes components to assist river transport, port development and
civil aviation. Supply of much of the equipment financed under the credit is
approaching completion and disbursements are now expected to be rapid.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railways Project; US$12 Million Loan of July 8, 1977
and          and US$8 Million Credit of July 8, 1977; not yet effective;
Credit No. 727   Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project comprises Sudan Railways' investment requirements during
the first three years (1977/78-1979/80) of the Government's Six-Year Develop-
ment Plan. It includes new workshops, sleeper and rail renewal, completion
of a radio communications network, purchase of 10 locomotives and 400 wagons
and locomotive spare parts, completion of a training school and technical
assistance. Preparation of specifications and bidding documents is now in
progress. Financing to be provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi
Fund, and the European Development Fund is a condition of effectiveness and,
apart from the FED grant, has been confirmed.
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20 Million Loan of July 9,
and             1976 and US$9 Million Credit of July 9, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project consists of final design and construction of two new
airports and upgrading of two existing airports, complete with terminal and
other facilities; navigational and communication equipment; and certain tech-
nical services. Design work has been completed and tendering is in progress.
Tendering was delayed by different procurement regulations of the financing
agencies (IBRD, IDA, FED and Saudi Fund). A problem has been encountered
in introducing new accounting procedures, but we expect to overcome this.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 447    First Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Effective Date: March 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project was designed to help the Industrial Bank of Sudan to
function more effectively in financing industrial development in the private
and public sectors in the Sudan. The Credit was expected to meet IBS' re-
quirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through 1975, but
business expanded rapidly and the Association had already approved subprojects
exceeding US$3.8 million by early 1975. Disbursements are expected to be
completed in mid-1978. A second credit to IBS was approved by the Board in
November 1975.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 14,
1976; Closing Date: December 31. 1979
The project will continue IDA's support for this development finance
company, and will provide foreign exchange for small and medium sized indus-
tries. Together with foreign exchange made available by the Kuwait Fund and
the Government of Germany, the credit is expected to meet the foreign exchange
needs of the Industrial Bank up to late 1978.
Credit No. 546   Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project consists of the fourth unit of the Roseires hydro-
electric station, 20 MW of diesel generator capacity, transmission and distri-
bution lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and services.
Implementation of the generation and transmission features of the project is
proceeding generally on schedule although inadequate bids for the civil works
at Roseires delayed implementation of that component. Contracts have been
awarded for most of the main components and these indicate that there is
likely to be a 25% cost overrun. The Government is seeking additional foreign
exchange to meet these costs. A new management structure is showing some
promise, but appointments to some senior posts have been badly delayed. Good
progress has been made in improving the financial operations. The various
studies financed under the project are either in progress or nearing completion.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, financed by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, will finance
preparation studies of high priority projects, to facilitate Sudan's public
investment. The Project Preparation unit has been established and in its
first three meetings, the Project Review Committee authorized eight studies
for financing under the project. Progress achieved has been good.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  During 1976:             review of Sudanese agricultural research
capability by Ford Foundation;
(b)  March 1976:   )          World Bank Project
November 1976:)          identification missions visiting Sudan;
(c)  November 1976:           Sudan - International Agricultural Research
Workshop - Khartoum;
(d)  February/March 1977:    World Bank Project preparation mission
visiting Sudan;
(e)  May 31, 1977:            Preparation report completed;
(f)  October 3, 1977:         Departure of appraisal mission;
(g)  May 13, 1978:            Negotiations completed;
(h)  December 31, 1978:       Planned date of Project effectiveness.
II. Special Implementation Actions
Immediate supervision mission to visit Sudan following Board
presentation.
III. Special Conditions
(a) staff appointments would be for a minimum of 5 years in case
of the Project Director, the Deputy Project Director, the Senior
Research Adviser to the DG, and the Production System Research
Program Leader, and 2 years for all other key staff (para. 45);
(b) a Project review would be carried out in Year 3 involving three
distinguished international scientists and representatives of USAID,
and IDA to review research program proposals for years 4-6 and to
assess the procedures and schedule for the transfer of the research
facilities under the WSDC to ARC within five years of project
effectiveness (para. 41);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) the Government would integrate fully all agricultural and animal
production research (para. 42).
(d) the Government would make proposals at the mid-term review of the
Project for financial contributions towards meeting the cost of
agricultural research from sources other than budgetary appropri-
ation, including major agricultural corporations and companies
(para. 47).
Effectiveness Conditions
(a) The Project Director, Deputy Project Director and Senior Research
Adviser to the DG have been appointed (para. 45);
(b) ARC has adopted adequate incentives for its staff working in
Western Sudan (para. 45).
(c) the effectiveness conditions of the USAID grant for the project
have been met (para. 46);
(d) ARC has opened a project account and GOS has deposited an initial
sum of LSd 200,000 for start-up expenditures (para. 46).



-    A=GRICULTURtAL -RESERCH-P;RO;J.EC;-Tt0   tt 000t0     ;i0  t--i :e    
Resoarcf ra Boo ndy .d                                                                               . -
HItLL MASS'1: (WtMTi BALTTC BROWN tOAM IN JE8EE  ARRkA AREArL
5 TA81U$D SAMOS SOOfl7
CLAY PLAIN 4MAINIt BLAO( NON CRACKING CLAYS)                                   /
ALTERNTINJG SANDi  DUlNES A;NDi ?ERPVIOUS CLAY FLAltSAGGARACATENAf   -
NB Non-Crookifng Cjaysr_ y risd nand Noga ore?opify Ditst&td isn$rflt AreOs =  .
(soSbownmin snsedfr ElObed n s Altefnoti;ng tFts in th,e rigoa Coton"           z -
i-s-.--i-mRaslwoysARA_B  %LPUBIIjC- OF  CYT
Risers ,                                                                              - *
;--Province jWBousdres                                                    -..  QvW odiFr\.! 
terportoIntfrl EdsodH. I                                                           ,i
10~~~~~~- '/ :               "s                 -         -'t                     a                       'n(
LBti B YA            N   C   PP  H  E  P  AN /                                      P        D
i X\\} D 4                  \ t   _                            $gF  , { C    S    F A
t ! 5O tft  >- z J 1  \ -/  D+E   ohkrl    l c {, J M .=T .L =.W i1 00    ED!A P                             te C44u
A  5/ 
C).
N  0  R        H         -IV         N      rR  T  H  F                    S rA\ A
D  A  R  F~~~~~~~~~~~ AlTU 
- El F sherr i  H                                                                                                            =
t'is j'  .2LS                i Rose
~~->  DARE---H  E--                             DD              NE           edn,  v                
D -A -\-FU    R
A     Z~( 
S  0  LI  P  H  F  A' N   5/    AHb  Yuss
NGHAZAL    oN  /                     JUNGLE!>~~~~~~~~~~~EA      /
C~~NT~~At  A  RICA   '  N   ~~~~~~   BAIHEY3R.AT              QAO_~
\     LAY0NRELAPIANT      [COZSYOT/A
n         , ~PUBL4C   (YE                      (Gard.d Soils)
6                          9    99/9/0400~~~~~~~~~p  0    0  NTIs area belongs too a
O LES2,                                      different Soil system     -r



