Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONIY
Report No. 2005-SU
FILE COPY
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 6, 1978
Eastern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =  Sudanese Pound, 100 Sudanese piastres
US$2.50 1/                   =  bSd 1.00
US$1.00                      =  LSd 0.40
US$2.5 million               =  LSd 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)               =  10,000 m   = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 feddan (fd)                =  1.04 ac    = 0.42 ha
1 ha                   2     =  2.38 fd
1 square kilometer (km )    =  100 ha
1 kilometer                  =  1,000 meters (m)
I imperial gallon (Ig)       =  4.545 liters
ABBREVIATIONS
AOAD     -  Arab Organization for Agricultural Development
APRA     -  Animal Production Research Administration
ARC      -  Agricultural Research Corporation
CIMMYT   -  International Center for the Improvement of Maize and Wheat
CIP      -  International Potato Center
EC       -  European Community
ERTS     -  Earth Resources Technology Satellite
FF       -  Ford Foundation
GOS      -  Government of Sudan
IADS     -  International Agricultural Development Service
ICARDA   -  International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
ICRISAT  -  International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
ILCA     -  International Livestock Center for Africa
ILRAD    -  International Laboratory for Research on Animal Disease
IRRI     -  International Rice Research Institute
MAFNR    -  Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
MFC      -  Mechanized Farming Corporation
NCR      -  National Council for Research
ODM      -  British Ministry of Overseas Development
PAC      -  Project Advisory Council
PEU      -  Planning and Evaluation Unit
PSU      -  Project Support Unit
SDP      -  Savannah Development Project
SYP      -  Six Year Development Plan
TEU      -  Training and Extension Unit
VRA      -  Veterinary Research Administration
WSDC     -  Western Savannah Development Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   The effective parity relationship for the US dollar is T-Sd 1 = US$2.87156.
An effective exchange rate of iSd 1 = US$2.50 is applied to all exchange
transactions other than the purchase of proceeds from exports of cotton,
to which the exchange rate of hSd 1 = US$2.87156 continues to apply, as
a result of the application of exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18
piastres per US dollar (i.e. 15%) to the rate of bSd 1 = US$2.87.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .           .       ............... . .. o..oo   ...........       1
II.    THE SECTOR  * ....................................                ...        I
A.    The Importance of Agriculture in the Economy .... ...                  1
B.    Contribution of Agriculture in the West to the
Economy             ..........................................      3
C.   The Future Strategy for Livestock and Crop
Production in the West ...........................                  4
III.   THE SUBSECTOR ..................................oo.o.ooooo..eooo.........     5
A.    Structure and Present Status of Agricultural
sResearch ................................. o.... oo... .ooo..*.......  5
B.    Present Status of Extension ..........................                 8
C.    Present Status of Formal Education ....o...          ..........        9
D.    The Proposed National Agricultural Research Strategy                  10
IV.    THE PROPOSED RESEARCH PROGRAMS FOR THE WEST o .............                 14
A.   The Project Area   .oo.   ........................                     14
B.   The Production Systems and their Research Needs .o...                  15
C.    Supporting Research ..o.oo..o.oo.o.. . .     .. o .... o .... .       22
D.    Linkages with Regional Development Projects  ....  ooo                23
V.    THE PROJECT ....ooo..o    ...............o .......... ..                    25
A.    Summary Project Description ....... ................                  25
B.   Detailed Features . .. ..o o.o. ..o. ..  ........ .... .o..o.          26
VI.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ..............................                   32
A.   Cost Estimates ... o ..... .......... . .  ...... ........ .... ........  32
B.    Proposed Financing .... ...........     ........ ..o .... .           32
C.    Budgetary Implications  ......................    .    ......         33
VII.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..o . ..... ..  ........... ....o. .o                34
A.   Phasing ........................... ..............     ....o ... ..... ..o  34
B.   Organization and Management .........o....o ..... o...                 35
C.   Procurement . ..   ..... o.o..... ... ...... .o.o. . ... . ..... ...   37
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited the Sudan
in October 1977 comprising Messrs. Tamboli, Silbiger (part time) and Fransen
(part time) (IDA) and Messrs. Melville, Tribe and Haworth (Consultants).
This document has a testricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
D.  Disbursement   .**. **... ***.***.*****.*.****..................*.....................**.  38
E.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .................    38
F.  Planning, Programming and Budgeting ................    39
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................    39
H.  Environmental Impact .....................................  39
VIII.   ASSUMPTIONS ON BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...............    39
IX.  SUMMARY ON AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS ......    42
Tables
Ti  Staff and Physical Inputs by Location ........................    30
T2  Project  Cost  Summary  .# *...... ........  ......................... .  31
Annexes
1.  Present Structure of the International Research Network
2.  Summary of Senior Staff
3.  Cost Estimates
Table 1: Project Cost Summary
Table 2: Capital Costs
Table 3: Operating Costs
Table 4: Technical Assistance
4.  Schedule of Disbursements
5.  Implementation Volume:  Table of Contents
6.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts
18270 - Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
18269 - Organization of the Agricultural Research Corporation
18379 - Proposed Structure for the Agricultural Research Corporation
18268 - Project Organization
18266 - Crops Research to be Conducted at the Proposed ARC Research Stations
18754 - Implementation Schedule
Maps
Soils - IBRD 12955; Climate - IBRD 12956; Ecological Zones - IBRD 12957; Crops
and Agricultural Regions - IBRD 12958; Nomadic Movement - IBRD 12959; Location
of Stations in the National Research Station Network - IBRD 13288; Main Trans-
portation Network - IBRD 13332.



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of the Sudan (GOS) has requested IDA to develop and
finance an agricultural research project (Project) for the rainfed arid and
semi-arid areas of Western Sudan (West). This Project would aim to develop
improved production systems for livestock and crops, to conserve and rehabil-
itate national resources and to improve the standard of living of the sub-
sistence farmers and pastoralists in the arid and semi-arid areas of the West.
The Project would also strengthen the national agricultural research effort
through the development of support services at the Agricultural Research
Corporation's (ARC) headquarters to be moved to Khartoum.
1.02      Recognizing the importance of research for unlocking the existing
potential, the Minister of Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Natural Re-
sources (MAFNR) in 1975 requested the Ford Foundation (FF) to make a study
of selected crop and discipline research capabilities and to suggest ways
and means of strengthening the Sudan's agricultural research and related
services. A summary of FF's reports on 10 basic food crops, seven discip-
lines, and four administrative services was discussed at an International
Workshop on Agricultural Research and Development in the Sudan held in
Khartoum, November 1976. Subsequently, a 'Joint Team' of Sudanese and
American scientists under the aegis of the International Agricultural Devel-
opment Service (IADS) and supported by the FF, prepared a master plan for
strengthening the national capability for research and for application of
improved technology. This plan proposes a long-term broadly based program
to develop the Sudan's agricultural research capabilities, and has become
the blue-print for the agricultural research policies and programs of GOS.
In support of this overall framework, the project would develop the agricul-
tural research capability for the West.
II. THE SECTOR
A. The Importance of Agriculture in the Economy
2.91      The Sudan, the largest country in Africa, covers about 2.5 million
km . The population is about 15.9 million growing at a rate of 2.2% per year;
per capita GNP for 1976 averaged about US$290. The agricultural sector pro-
vides the livelihood for around 80% of the population; it contributes about
40% of GNP, 95% of exports and over 50% of Government revenues. The value of
agricultural exports increased from LSd 123 million in 1972 to ESd 193 million



-2-
in 1976. The major export commodities in 1976 were cotton (51% of total agri-
cultural exports), groundnuts (20%), sesame (9%), and gum arabic (6%). Ex-
ports of livestock and livestock products range between 6% and 10% of total
exports between years. Imports of agricultural products have also been in-
creasing sharply, from iSd 26 million in 1971 to 3Sd 62 million in 1975, but
declining to ESd 45 million in 1976. Agricultural imports during 1975 con-
sisted of 61% sugar with wheat accounting for a further 13%. Imports of
agricultural inputs (fertilizers, insecticides, sacks and machinery) have
risen from hSd 12 million in 1971 to oSd 23 million in 1975.  The proximity
of the Sudan to markets in the Middle East places it in a favorable position
for agricultural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries have increasingly
come to consider the Sudan as a primary future source of agricultural imports.
2.02      Although the northern third of the country is largely desert, the
remaining two thirds of the country contain some 85 million feddans (fd) of
arable land (of which less than 30% has been cultivated), 240 million fd
of grazing land, and 60 million fd of natural forest. Of the 26 million
fd gross cultivated area, some 4 million is under irrigation, 5-1/2 mil-
lion under rainfed mechanized farming and 16-1/2 million under traditional
cultivation. The balance of 59 million fd either forms part of a long
fallow rotation or is unused due to lack of water or the heavy nature of
the soils. Similarly, lack of water or in some areas the presence of tsetse
flies prevents utilization of grazing areas, but much of the range is heavily
used by the large livestock population - 15 million cattle, 16 million sheep,
11 million goats and 2 million camels - in nomadic, transhumant or sedentary
livestock farming systems. The market offtake is put at 5% for cattle, 15%
for sheep, 20% for goats and 4% for camels, allowing for an annual per capita
consumption of about 6.1 kg of red meat and exports of 25,000 MT equivalent.
Traditionally, the principal livestock owners were nomadic pastoralists but
in recent years, economic, political and climatic pressures have gradually
changed the nomad's way of life and led to increased settlement; but the
pastoralists continue to depend primarily on livestock.
2.03      The economy's growth over the past fifty years has been linked
firstly to irrigation from the Nile waters, largely for cotton production,
but more recently also for groundnuts, wheat and sugarcane. A second spur
occurred with the development of large-scale rainfed mechanized production
of sorghum (dura) since the early 1950's. Both of these developments were
concentrated between the confluence of the Niles and the adjoining clay
plains of East/Central Sudan so that modern sector development stood in
strong contrast to traditional subsistence agriculture in the remote areas
of the west and south, giving a dual nature to the economy. A third stim-
ulus took place in the 1960's when the railway reached Nyala and when
rainfed groundnut production got an outlet from the western provinces; cur-
rently about 1/4 of the country's groundnut product is coming from South
Darfur Province and is expanding rapidly.
2.04      Much of industrial development is related to the processing of agri-
cultural products. Textile development has been the largest, but oil express-
ing, sugar processing, milling, tanning and sack production from kenaf are



-3-
all being expanded. Agriculture is likely to remain the base on which indus-
trial expansion will rely.
B. Contribution of Agriculture in the West to the Economy
2.05      The West, comprising the four provinces of North and South Darfur
and North and South Kordofan, covers an area of about 850,000 km2 or 35% of
the Sudan with about 5 million or about 30% of the country's total popula-
tion. The West contributes about 90% of the Sudan's millet, 52% of the
sesame, 46% of the groundnuts, 17% of the sorghum, 6% of the cotton and 90%
of the gum arabic; an estimted 45% of the cattle (about 7 million), 37% of
the sheep (about 6 million), 32% of the goats (about 3.5 million) and 65% of
the camels (about 1 million) are raised in the region.
Crop Production
2.06      Small-scale subsistence agriculture is the most important economic
activity in the West, and other sectors, particularly transportation and in-
dustry, are critically linked to agriculture. Only about 3% of total culti-
vation is commercial agriculture, largely in South Kordofan and to a small
degree in South Darfur. Rainfed agriculture predominates with small irri-
gated plots in the Jebel Marra, at Sag el Naam in North Darfur, and around
Nyala as the only exceptions. The main crops are millet, sorghum, ground-
nuts and sesame, with cotton and maize of lesser importance. Recorded yields
reflect not only poor soils and unfavorable weather conditions but also poor
husbandry practices and, in some areas, over-exploitation of the land. For
all the major crops, the area under cultivation has been increasing steadily
over recent years with incremental aggregate production but yields have re-
mained stagnant or fallen, a trend which must be reversed if farmer's in-
comes are to be increased.
Animal Production
2.07      The conflict between individual ownership of livestock and communal
land use, and the seasonal movement of the predominantly transhumant livestock
producers inhibit the proper utilization of resources including range, water
and the production potential of the herds. During the last 20 years, the
number of animals has increased considerably through efficient veterinary
services; but increased herd numbers have led to range deterioration without
noticeable incremental output.
Constraints to Production
2.08      There are two main constraints to increased production:  (i) eco-
logical limitations imposed by a low and extremely variable rainfall, high
evaporation, recurring drought, soils of low fertility, and limited access-
ibility of ground water; and (ii) increases in the human and livestock
populations which change social traditions and engender pressures and eco-
logical degradation. The steadily worsening man/livestock population ratio



- 4 -
forces many pastoralists to turn to sedentary cultivation and become settled
farmers; but new and more efficient systems of land use and water management
ought to be introduced into existing livestock and crop production systems if
this trend is to be successful.
2.09      Many other constraints are related to these basic issues, and these
can be classified as ecological and socio-economic. Some ecological issues
are: deterioration of rangelands; grass fires; parasites and pests; low pro-
tein and mineral intakes by grazing stock; reciprocal pressures of livestock
and crops in competing production systems; lack of effective technologies
of crop husbandry; crop diseases, weeds and pests; inadequate tillage methods;
unimproved crop varieties; low soil fertility; and poor water management.
The socio-economic constraints include: the conflict between individual
ownership of livestock and communal land use (para. 2.07); socio-economic in-
securities in a fragile ecosystem; attempts to buffer social groups against
environmental vicissitudes by overstocking, shifting cultivation and increased
sedentarization; lack of market opportunities, and insufficient demand for
consumer goods and few opportunities for investment of capital other than in
livestock.
2.10      These constraints do not generally represent discrete disciplinary
problems capable of solution by traditional techniques of experimental agri-
culture. Rather they constitute interconnecting links which could only be
strengthened through the study of production systems by multi-disciplinary
teams, in order to increase crop and animal production and provide security
to producers through the long-term optimum use of resources, with particular
emphasis on water/soil/plant/animal/human inter-relationships.
C. The Future Strategy for Livestock and Crop Production in the West
2.11      The Sudan's agricultural development strategy laid down in the Six-
Year Development Plan (1977-83) (SYP) emphasizes the need to make full use
of existing resources and at the same time to correct the wide variance in
productivity and incomes between the commercial (irrigated and mechanized
rainfed) sector and subsistence agriculture. As part of this strategy, GOS
is according high priority to launching development programs for subsistence
cultivators and pastoralists in the West and this is reflected in several new
regional development projects such as the ODM/Abu-Dhabi, IDA/Saudi Fund and
EC financed projects in Southern Darfur, and the ODM assisted Nuba Mountains
Project and IDA financed MFC project in South Kordofan (para. 4.34). Inten-
sified use of arable land, range, livestock and water could contribute to
reaching the plan targets in the country and a steady improvement in living
standards of the population in the West, but this is critically dependent on
the transfer, development and adoption of improved technical packages which
call for a back-up by a largely increased agricultural research program. In
the short term, the Savannah belt is the climatically most suited area in
the Sudan for the expansion of rainfed agriculture, and the plan targets for
increased surpluses in sorghum, groundnuts and sesame, and in better crop/
livestock integration, would crucially depend on the success of development
projects in the West.



- 5 -
III. THE SUBSECTOR
A. Structure and Present Status of Agricultural Research
National Council for Research (NCR)
3.01      Overall responsibility for research policy formulation is vested in
the National Council for Research (NCR) 1/, a high-level policy making body
headed by a president of cabinet rank who reports directly to the President of
the Republic. NCR acts as an adviser and a consultant to the Government, to
its agencies, to public corporations and to the private sector in matters
related to scientific research. NCR's Central Board is comprised of 22 dis-
tinguished members of Sudanese society representing: planners and decision-
makers including several cabinet ministers; known and recognized scientists;
users of research from the public and private sectors; and non-Government
scientific organizations and associations. Day-to-day operations of NCR are
being handled through its general secretariat which also comprises the liaison
staff of the four specialized sub-councils: (i) agriculture including animals;
(ii) economics and sociology; (iii) medicine; and (iv) science and technology.
Each of these have a high degree of autonomy.
Agricultural Research Responsibility
3.02      Agricultural research is mainly the responsibility of the MAFNR
through: (i) the ARC (para. 3.03); (ii) the Animal Production Research
Administration (APRA) and Veterinary Research Administration (VRA) (para.
3.07) and the Services Departments (para. 3.09). In addition, some agrono-
mic and social science research is being carried out by the University of
Khartoum through its Faculties of Agriculture, Veterinary Science, Animal
Husbandry, Economics and Social Sciences, and the Development Studies Insti-
tute (para. 3.10). The Sudan also participates in several regional and mul-
tilateral research activities and is being supported by some of the inter-
national research centers (para. 3.12).
Agricultural Research Corporation
3.03      Almost all agricultural research in the Sudan is now the respons-
ibility of ARC 2/ based at Wad Medani, a semi-autonomous body administered
by the Agricultural Research Council (Board of Management), and directly
responsible to the Minister, MAFNR. The Director-General of ARC (DG) is
appointed by the President after nomination by the Minister, MAFNR; he is
also the chairman of the Board of Management. Board members include: the
Deputy Director of ARC; the Directors General of the Corporations (Gezira,
Public Agricultural Production Corporation, Mechanized Farming Corporation-
MFC, Rahad Agricultural Corporation); the Under Secretaries of Agriculture,
Animal Resources and Natural Resources of MAFNR; the Director of Agriculture,
Southern Region; the Deans of the Faculties of Agriculture at Khartoum and
Gezira and of the Faculty of Natural Resources at Juba; representatives of
1/   Established by the NCR Act of 1973 which was amended in 1975.
2/   Established under the Agricultural Research Corporation Act of 1977.



-6-
the Ministries of Finance and Industry, the NCR and the Agricultural Bank;
and three members appointed by the Minister. The Board meets at least twice
a year and: plans the general agricultural research policy for the Sudan;
approves the budget; approves and appoints scientists and officials; and
submits proposals to the Minister for the appointment of the Deputy Director
General, heads of sections and main stations. A Technical Committee and an
Administrative and Finance Committee support the Board in carrying out its
functions.
3.04      ARC is funded by:  an annual Government contribution based on the
Board's budget proposals endorsed by the Minister, MAFNR, and approved by the
Council of Ministers; and to a lesser extent from the sale of crops and other
products; grants from local and international institutions; and income from
the sale of publications or services rendered. Recurrent fund allocations
to ARC have increased from ESd 1.1 million in 1970/71 to ESd 3.1 million in
1977/78.
3.05      Originally, ARC was set up as the Gezira Research Station for irri-
gated agriculture with emphasis on cotton but it has gradually taken over more
responsibilities (Chart 18269). Recently, GOS has transferred research in
forestry, pasture and range, wildlife and game, land use and soil conserva-
tion, fisheries and marine biology, and food processing to ARC.
3.06      ARC operates five regional stations and twelve sub-stations.  Its
current staff is about 250 senior staff, 420 technicians, 175 administrative
support staff and about 3,000 laborers.
Animal Research
3.07      Animal production research is mainly the responsibility of APRA and
veterinary research that of VRA, both departments under the direction of the
Under Secretary of Animal Resources in the MAFNR, and funded from the normal
Government budget. APRA is operating six research stations with 34 scientists
plus support staff. Its budget allocation in 1977/78 was ESd 0.45 million.
3.08      VRA operates one veterinary research center near Khartoum and five
provincial veterinary laboratories, with 75 professionals plus support staff.
Its 1976/77 budget allocation was ESd 1.0 million.
Service Departments
3.09      Service Departments, which contribute in varying degrees to agri-
cultural research include the Tambul Pilot Farm (Under the Rahad Agricul-
tural Corporation) conducting studies on mechanized/irrigated farming;
the Plant Protection Department doing operational research, mainly on the
desert locust and aerial spraying; the Department of Soil Survey and Test-
ing, working mostly on soil survey and classification under the Gezira Scheme;
the MFC studying improved farming techniques at Sim Sim and Habila and small-
holder mechanized farming at El Fuda; the Department of Agricultural Economics
and Statistics responsible for crop statistics; the Social Research Unit at



- 7 -
Gezira and the Social Studies Division of the Department of Soil Conservation,
Land Use and Water Programming which conduct social surveys related to rural
development.
University of Khartoum
3.10      Research programs of the University of Khartoum under the Ministry
of Education are organized along traditional disciplines. Cooperation be-
tween the Faculties, APRA and ARC is poor, and because of insufficient re-
search funds, University staff are underutilized for research purposes. How-
ever, some ARC stations are being used by post-graduate students for the pre-
paration of theses. Because of the different objectives between Universtiy
and ARC research, a further improvement of research cooperation will take
time and can only come about through a strengthening of ARC.
3.11      Faculty of Agriculture staff have produced significant results
(having been published in more than 300 papers) in national and international
journals including: studies on field crops such as sorghum, sesame, legumes
and vegetables; pests and diseases; animal nutrition; agricultural mechaniza-
tion; and economics of production. Recently, the need for multi-disciplinary
research into the production systems of the important agro-ecological zones
has been recognized and a few of these projects have been introduced. Re-
search funds are obtained mainly from the University and to a lesser extent
from NCR and the private sector.  Research policies are directed by the
Faculty Research Board guided by proposals for research projects from staff
members. ARC's DG is a member of the Faculty Board and the Deputy Director
a member of the Faculty Research Board. Some of ARC's senior scientists do
some lecturing at the Faculty.
International, Regional and Bilateral Cooperation
3.12      The Sudan participates in several regional research activites with
neighboring countries and multi-lateral organizations including: (i) the FAO
Near East Field Crops Improvement and Production Project which has identified
improved varieties of wheat, barley, maize, sorghum and millet for distrib-
ution to farmers; (ii) the Desert Locust Control Organization for East Africa,
with other countries in the Desert Locust Invasion Belt through FAO; and (iii)
the UNDP/FAO Grain Eating Bird Control Research Project. Regional cooperation
in agricultural research is maintained with Central and East African countries
through the technical Research Commission of the Organization of African
Unity. Research links with the International Atomic Energy Commission and
Center for Overseas Pest Research are being maintained through exchange of
personnel for training, equipment supply, and consultants. Ciba-Geigy Ltd.
undertakes research on new methods of air spraying (particularly ULV) at the
Gezira, in collaboration with scientists of the ARC.
3.13      Links have been established with the international research cen-
ters specifically through FF with regard to potatoes (CIP) and rice (IRRI)
and directly with regard to sorghum and millet (ICRISAT). Contacts are
also being maintained with CIMMYT, IITA, ILCA and ILRAD (Annex 1).



- 8 -
3.14      The Sudan is also a member of several FAO regional commissions which
have both research and development functions. Furthermore, it is a member of
the Arab Organization for Agricultural Development (AOAD) of the Arab League
with headquarters in Khartoum. Bilateral assistance in research training, in
setting up training centers and in collaborative research has been received from
the U.K., U.S.A., Federal Republic of Germany, U.S.S.R., Canada, Switzerland,
China, The Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Egypt and other countries.
Issues
3.15      While these research institutions have effectively supported the
irrigation subsector, the research facilities for the two major agro-ecological
regions of the country (rainfed arid and semi-arid in the West and East, and
rainfed tropical in the South) continue to be under developed, under staffed
and under financed. Little research has been carried out in the subsistence
farming/pastoralist areas of the West (and the South), and what has been done
is rarely relevant to the needs of local producers. While groundnut varie-
ties have been introduced and useful research is being done on gum arabic,
little work has been done on millet, pulses and legumes, or on improved range
management and animal husbandry techniques, especially for small stock and
camels. Most important, adaptive research is required on appropriate farming
systems and cultural practices.
3.16      So far, most of ARC's research has been conducted on a disciplinary
or subject matter basis. While this is desirable in terms of fruitful cooper-
ation between workers of the same discipline, it lacks inter-disciplinary co-
ordination for resolving production problems. Although most research within
the sector has been transferred to ARC (para. 3.05), the responsibilities for
animal production and animal health research (para. 3.07), as well as for
socio-economic research in the rural sector (para. 3.09) remain under dif-
ferent Under Secretariats in the same Ministry, which makes it difficult to
organize research on an integrated, multi-disciplinary production systems
basis to attack the problems limiting output.
3.17      The transmission of limited available research results to the pro-
ducer breaks down at several points, in particular through the absence of a
capability within ARC or the MAFNR Extension Department to digest and simplify
research results into usable form (Charts 18269 and 18270). Moreover, since
ARC has little contact with development planning, it is insufficiently aware
of crop and livestock research priorities considering local demand and export
opportunities.
B. Present Status of Extension
3.18      Except in the Gezira, Khashm El Girba, and Rahad Irrigation Schemes
and in Khartoum Province, agricultural extension services in the Sudan are
weak. Extension is decentralized as a provincial service being financed and
directed by the province. Because of lack of funds, the shortage of quali-
fied personnel, limited extension messages, and low priority accorded to it



9-
by provincial leaders, extension work is inadequate in most provinces. There
are about 200 extension staff; of these 30% are university graduates, 20% are
diploma holders from the Shambat Training Institute and the rest - 50% - are
graduates from intermediate school with a brief in-service training in general
agriculture. Thus one extension officer on average has to cover as many as
30,000 farmers. The extension staff are mostly working in the East and have
hardly any access to new information for the farmers since there is no link
nor effective functional relationship with ARC (para. 3.17). Field staff in
the West are inadequate, have very little mobility and are inadequately
trained; for example, in South Darfur, there are five extension officers of
which only two work at the village level.
3.19      Some successful extension efforts in the Sudan include the public
production corporations which have modernized agriculture, but to date this
has been largely limited to irrigation schemes. The transfer of research
results is more efficient in commercial farming like the Gezira scheme and
schemes of the Public Agricultural Production Corporation than in the sub-
sistence sector. Research is being carried out by these corporations and
applied directly on farms. Similarly, the Veterinary Service is successfully
implementing disease control programs (para. 2.07).
C. Present Status of Formal Education
3.20      The Faculties of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine of the Univer-
sity of Khartoum have well trained academic staff and produce about 200 B.Sc.
graduates and 50-70 M.Sc. graduates every year. Although this number seems
to be high, there is a shortage of staff in the field relative to requirements.
Reasons for this are: unattractive living conditions and career prospects,
low and irregular salaries, and difficult working conditions. In addition,
the University curriculum is insufficiently oriented towards field work, and
there are ample employment opportunities in other sectors of the economy and
abroad.
3.21      Some of the junior scientists return to the University for post-
graduate studies at the M.Sc. level and then carry out research programs at
one of the ARC stations which are recognized by the University (para. 3.10).
Facilities of the University itself include two demonstration farms of 600 fd
and 60 fd, respectively.
3.22      Two new universities, the University of Juba and the University of
Gezira (Wad Medani), are being developed. Juba University was opened recently
and is expected to admit its first students in 1978. Instruction and research
in agriculture and veterinary science will be in the Faculty of Natural Re-
sources. An Agricultural Faculty is being organized at the Gezira University
and students are expected to enter soon.
3.23      The training of agricultural technicians is undertaken by the newly
created College of Agricultural Studies of the Institute of Technical Colleges
through its divisions:



- 10 -
(a) Shambat Institute of Agriculture enrolling 120 students
annually for a three-year diploma course in general
agriculture;
(b) Soba Forest Rangers College training forest rangers for
three years;
(c) Kuku Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Training Institute
enrolling about 60 students annually for a three-year
course;
(d) Abu Haraz and Abu Huyar Agricultural Colleges currently
being developed with IDA assistance for an annual intake
of 90 and 120 students, respectively, for three-year
diploma courses in agriculture and animal husbandry;
(e) Yambio Agriculture Institute currently enrolling 60
students for a two year course but with plans to increase
to 100 student capacity to train technicians and exten-
sion staff for the South.
3.24      Starting in 1978, the three agricultural secondary schools at New
Halfa, Talha and Um-Dawan-Ban are offering a three year course, in line with
the normal three year course at academic secondary schools. Agricultural
secondary school leavers have experienced difficulties in finding employment.
D. The Proposed National Agricultural Research Strategy
3.25      The SYP recognizes the importance of agricultural research to
achieve the set targets (para. 2.11), and has allocated moderate resources
to the further development of the ARC (LSd 5.4 million), the APRA (ISd 4.6
million) and the VRA (iSd 4.8 million) over the plan period but it gives no
guidelines regarding the organization and focus of the future research effort.
As to the subsectors, animal disease and animal production including range and
crop/livestock integration are being given more emphasis than crops alone; and
geographically, investments in the Northern, Central and Eastern Regions are
vastly larger than those in the West and in the South.
3.26      The 'Joint Team' (para. 1.02) reviewed the SYP with regard to agri-
cultural research needs 1/. Although it is acknowledged that the Sudan has
an agricultural research capability superior to that of many countries at a
similar development level, the Joint Team's master plan, which has become
the blue-print for the long-term development of agricultural research in the
Sudan, lists seven areas in which the research system should be improved:
1/   Source:  Sudan - Agricultural Research Capabilities.  The Joint
Team Report, International Agricultural Development Service (IADS),
November 10, 1977.



- 11 -
(a) strengthen the organization and operations of the ARC;
integrate crops and livestock research and development
(as recently directed by the Minister, MAFNR); and be
responsive to needs of the different farming systems and
geographic areas of the Sudan;
(b) replace the fragmented disciplinary research approach by
a coordinated multi-disciplinary team approach along com-
modity and non-commodity problem area lines (factor or
agro-ecological production systems);
(c) strengthen the national research station network in the
subsistence areas of the West, and the tropical regions
in the South, but maintain research services for the
food-producing irrigated areas and the mechanized farming
schemes;
(d) establish long-term manpower planning and training for
professional and technical staff, and improve personnel
management policies and procedures;
(e) strengthen research on production economics, marketing
and human resources;
(f) strengthen capabilities for evaluation and application
of new technology, including more effective linkages with
extension; and
(g) strengthen linkages with external technical assistance
organizations, including the international agricultural
research centers.
Organization and Operations
3.27      The ARC headquarters would be moved from Wad Medani to a new site
near Khartoum to provide offices and facilities for the reorganized ARC, ac-
cording to the Agricultural Research Corporation Act 1977 (Charts 18379 and
18266). This new organization plan provides for the transfer of (i) the ad-
ministrative services (Director General, three Deputies, and research support
services); (ii) the six heads of research divisions (crops; animal produc-
tion; soils, water and engineering; natural resources; socio-economics; and
agricultural processing); and (iii) the leaders of some research sections
(to be determined). ARC's research management capability would be strength-
ened through: (a) a Planning and Programming capability responsible for
planning, coordination and budgeting of research programs; producing fea-
sibility studies for new programs and facilities; the planning of manpower
requirements and training programs; and carrying out policy studies and
studies on research management and organization; and (b) Technical Services
responsible for research station development; the procurement of goods; and
the provision of transport. An office for special linkage with Integrated
Area Development Research Programs would include technical and support staff



- 12 -
to handle the services for three regional research programs (West; South;
North and East), and for the external agencies cooperating in various re-
search and development activities.
Research Coordination
3.28      Three types of program coordination are envisaged:
(a) National Commodity Research Programs (Chart 19266):
These are proposed for major commodities such as cereal
crops (wheat and barley, rice, sorghum, millet, maize),
oil seeds (groundnuts, sesame, sunflower), fiber crops
(cotton, kenaf), root crops, medicinal and special plants,
fruits, vegetables, sugarcane, coffee, tea, tobacco,
kerkadeh (hibiscus sabderiffa, used as a beverage and as
a dye), large ruminants (beef and dairy cattle, camels),
small ruminants (sheep and goats), and poultry.
The research to be carried out would be related mainly to plant and animal
improvement and production techniques. Management of each commodity program
would be provided by a National Program Coordinator who would be based at a
station where the commodity has its greatest regional importance. He would
be responsible for: the technical aspects of the commodity program at his
station and at the various satellite research stations; transmitting infor-
mation between stations and from international sources; advising the Govern-
ment on his commodity; organizing meetings for all program staff; preparing
annual commodity reports; and reviewing research programs and proposals in
their field. Because of local importance, two National Program Coordinators
would be stationed in the Project area: gum arabic at El Obeid and millet
at Nyala. Furthermore, it would be desirable to place the national coordi-
nators for: kerkadeh at El Obeid, camels at El Fasher, and sheep and goats
at Ghazala Gawazat.
(b) Factor (Discipline) Programs: Specific programs would
be carried out in food technology, fishery management and
marine biology, game and wildlife management; forestry;
animal health, crop protection; plant introduction; seed
technology; agricultural engineering; soil and water man-
agement; range and pasture management; and human resources.
Factor Programs would be coordinated in a similar way as
the commodity programs (para. 3.28a). Because of the
regional importance, the National Coordinators of the
following factor programs would be stationed in the
Project area: soil and water management, and range and
pasture management.
(c) Agro-Ecological Production Systems Research Programs:
Three production systems research programs corresponding
to the main agro-ecological zones are being proposed:
- the rainfed arid and semi-arid areas (West and East):



- 13 -
- the irrigated arid and semi-arid areas (East and
Central); and
- the high rainfall areas (South).
Their objective would be to study effective ways of increasing agricultural
production by optimizing the use of available resources. They would build
on the production functions being studied in the commodity or factor programs
and emphasize factor combinations (para. 2.10). Each of the programs would
be headed by a Program Coordinator based at the headquarters station within
each agro-ecological region. The research themes and composition of research
teams to study them would vary with the agro-ecological sub-zone concerned.
3.29      This threefold classification and coordination of agricultural
research raises problems of line responsibilities: In many situations, a
research project would be part of a commodity and production systems and
factor program. Responsibility for research projects would be with the pro-
duction systems program or sub-program leaders because of their area orienta-
tion, while the commodity and factor program coordinators would serve in an
advisory capacity.
3.30      A 'research project system' would be introduced as the basic work
unit which in aggregate would constitute the national commodity, production
systems and factor programs. In the disaggregate, the component 'research
projects' would form the basis for program planning, budgeting and accounting;
for guidance of research staff; for direction and management; and for report-
ing and evaluation.
Research Station Network
3.31      The Joint Team proposals include the further development of main
research stations and field stations, of which one main station and 6 field
stations would be located in the West. Many recommendations could-be activated
with existing facilities. Others could be implemented with fairly modest in-
vestments. Some could be set up as part of specific development projects such
as mechanized farming schemes, area development projects, or regional research
and development projects, in particular in the West and the South.
Manpower Development and Management
3.32      To implement the Joint Team proposals, manpower requirements would
increase from 250 to about 700 senior staff and from 420 to about 1,500
technical support staff. All agricultural research staff in the Sudan would
be members of ARC's scientific cadre, to ensure a uniform approach to recruit-
ment policies, career development, in-service training, positions standards
and grades of service, and criteria and procedures for the evaluation of
personnel. Under ARC's staff development program, about 60 scientists are
currently abroad for advanced degree training, and many of these would be
expected to join the Project upon their return. The Joint Team has proposed
a Manpower Development and Management Office to enable ARC to handle staff
matters more effectively.



- 14 -
Long-term Research Funding
3.33      To guarantee the long-term funding of a substantially enlarged agri-
cultural research program, the government should introduce a strategy of fi-
nancing agricultural research both by direct contributions of benefitting
organizations and corporations and possibly also by the introduction of a
cess on livestock and crop produce as a means of taxing other beneficiaries.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that GOS will prepare a study
for the mid-term review of the Project (para. 7.02) on possible means of
financing future agricultural research from sources other than budgetary
allocation.
IV. THE PROPOSED RESEARCH PROGRAMS FOR THE WEST
A. The Prolect Area
Location and Climate (IBRD Map 12956)
4.01      The Project area includes the provinces of North and South Kordofan
and North and South Darfur and extends from the Bahr el Arab in the South to
the Libyan desert in the north, and from the Nile in the east to beyond the
Jebel Marra massif in the west. The habitable southern two thirds of the
Project area is located approximately between 9 030 and 160 N latitude and
200 and 320 longitude. The north-south rainfall gradient increases from very
arid (about 25 mm per annum) in the northern desert to semi-arid (up to 900
mm) along the Bahr el Arab in the south, embracing the ecological zones of
the sahara, sub-sahara, sahel, and sudanian savannah. In the south, the
rainy season extends over about five months (June to October) and becomes
gradually shorter towards the north.
Soils (IBRD Map 12955)
4.02      Fragmentary soil surveys have identified three broad soil groups in
the inhabited southern part of the Project area:
(a) the stabilized (Qoz) sands complex is predominant and has
low fertility but can be cultivated by hand;
(b) the non-cracking clays which are widely scattered, with
sparse vegetation because of low permeability; grazing
is the most common use of these soils but they are also
suited for cropping once the hard surface pan has been
broken up; and
(c) cracking clays, the most fertile and stable soils which
are predominant in the Nuba Mountains and occur over much
of the southern project area.



- 15 -
Population and Economy
4.03      The economy of the Project area has been summarized in paras.
2.05-2.10. Until recently, the nomadic livestock-owning Baggara people
were predominant though a few Baggara and some non-Baggara people have been
settled agriculturalists for a long time. Because of human and livestock
population pressures, more and more pastoralists are turning to crop produc-
tion in association with livestock in areas with annual rainfall over 400 mm
thus reducing the land requirements per family and increasing the output per
unit of land. The range areas once seasonally rested during cyclic migratory
livestock movement are now subject to intense degradation. Furthermore, cash
surpluses accumulated by settled cultivators are invested in livestock. Thus
a continuum now exists with varying degrees of settled, semi-sedentary and
fully nomadic populations, with their overlapping needs and competitive
demands for resources (para. 2.08).
B. The Production Systems and their Research Needs
4.04      The variation in natural conditions and economic behavior of the
inhabitants can be differentiated into five agro-pastoral production systems,
of which two are purely pastoral and three are crop/livestock combinations:
(a) arid livestock production at the desert fringe;
(b) semi-arid livestock production in the south of the
Project area, interspersed with crop production;
(c) integrated crop/livestock production on stabilized
sands;
(d) integrated crop/livestock production on non-cracking
clays; and
(e) integrated crop/livestock production on cracking clays.
There is considerable overlap between these systems: For instance, the
northern (wet season) limit of the semi-arid cattle range coincides with the
southern (dry season) limit of the arid camel/sheep range, thus being effec-
tively grazed year-round and having no opportunity to recovery. Year-round
livestock production is difficult on non-cracking clays due to flooding
problems and on cracking clays because of mud. Livestock have to be moved to
dry ground outside the area or fodder conservation is required to maintain
the animals during the wet weather. The special features, constraints,
research requirements of/and proposals for each system are described in the
following sections.
Arid Livestock Production at the Desert Fringe
4.05      The System.  Nomadic pastoralists exploit the desert fringe with
camels, sheep and some goats in response to and sometimes in anticipation of
irregular rainfall and shifting plant cover. Seasonal movements range from



- 16 -
250 to 500 km and may reach 800 km in years of exceptional rainfall with
browse flushes in the desert. To maximize productivity, great experience,
endurance and skill are required in manipulating the herds and flocks; for
example camels are moved according to their nutritional needs, leaving people
to feed on sheep and goats, and grain acquired through the barter or sale of
animals.
4.06      Constraints on Production.  The rainfall variability and lack of
permanent water dictate repeated animal movement diverting most food energy
to maintenance rather than production; body weight losses and mortalities
are being incurred during the long and severe dry seasons; further con-
straints are loss of grazing through fire, and inadequate animal disease
treatment.
4.07      The Research Program.  The potential for improving the productivity
of this fragile but highly adapted system through technical innovations must
be regarded as limited, but studies on range condition and trend and manipu-
lation through different livestock species, water regimes, fire and range
management are indicated with a view to stopping the advance of the desert.
Studies would also include the structure and productivity of camel herds,
and sheep and goat flocks with the underlying technical coefficients, the
effect of improved disease control, feeding of mineral supplements and drought
proofing mechanisms and strategies. Human resources would be studied for a
longer time span with regard to demographic structure and trends, nutritional
and health status, the organizational and social context of the production
unit, decision-making, socio-economic value patterns, marketing processes,
animal management patterns, and inter-population pressure through competi-
tion for resources. The program would be carried out in close coordination
with the range section at Ghazala Gawazat under the Western Savannah Devel-
opment Corporation (WSDC).
4.08      An interdisciplinary systems research team would be established
at El Fasher, comprising a range specialist (sub-program leader), a camel
specialist, a sheep and goat specialist, a second range specialist, and a
sociologist (based at Nyala) plus support staff (Annex 2).
Semi-Arid Livestock Production in the Sudanian and Sahelian Zones
4.09      The System.  The operating zone is a series of parallel longitudinal
grazing orbits (from below 100N almost to latitude 130N) by cattle-owning
Baggara pastoralists moving either towards fresh grazing (dry season) or away
from biting fly and heavy mud (wet season). Seasonal movements range from
300 to 600 km. Cattle are the main class of stock, with some sheep and goats
tended in mixed bunches. Dairy produce is being consumed for subsistence
or sold at local markets in exchange for grain, tea, sugar or clothing.



- 17 -
Cattle offtake for sale is about 5% (mainly mature stock) but small ruminants
serve as the main meat supply for subsistence. The labor intensive livestock
system of the Baggara is reasonably efficient in relation to the natural
potential, with calving rates 65%, lambing rates 120% and kidding rates 200%
being recorded. Millet production for subsistence on the easily tillable Qoz
soils is expanding rapidly.
4.10      Constraints on Production.  Expanding cultivation by both cattle
owners and sedentary farmers as well as grass fires reduce the availability
of dry season grazing, the major bottleneck in feed supply during the year;
cyclical growth and weight losses are common; natural grazing and crop resi-
dues are deficient in protein and minerals; animal diseases and parasites
are more important than in the north; there are local water shortages and
widespread overstocking of the range; and lack of permanent water supplies
along the routes of transhumance force herders to complete the southward
irrigation to the Bahr el Arab before the grazing can be fully utilized.
4.11      The Research Program.  The area offers more scope for technical
innovation than the area to the north (para. 4.07). The objective would be
to improve the economic position of the predominantly transhumant pastoral-
ists by improving livestock output through better range, water and livestock
management, resulting in higher offtakes and increased subsistence.  New tech-
nologies need to be developed that are both environmentally advantageous and
socially acceptable. The main lines of research would include:
(i) rangeland production: the assessment of range condition and
trend; its primary productivity and improvement possibilities
through controlled grazing, water and fire management; the
introduction of new species (particularly leguminous trees
and shrubs), the strategic use of localities with better
soils or water availability; and to a lesser extent, re-
seeding and bush control;
(ii) livestock production: the structure and productivity of
cattle herds and sheep and goat flocks, with the underlying
technical coefficients; the effect of improved disease
control, mineral supplements and the feeding of crop
residues and by-products on herd productivity; herd pro-
ductivity changes through the early extraction and fat-
tening of young males;
(iii) pastoral security: human resources would be studied along
the same lines as stated in para. 4.07, including investiga-
tions of the opportunities for capital investment other than
in livestock;
(iv) pastoral systems: research results on rangeland, livestock
and human resources would be integrated into proposals for



- 18 -
improving traditional systems of husbandry and lifestyles of
the people. The key to such changes would be the definition
of basic limitations in available resources (particularly
soil, vegetation and water) and therefore the need to conserve
and use rationally what is available, an( what extra can e
produced, for example, by the introduction of new water
management technology, by balanced numbers of people and
livestock, and by increased subsistence cultivation. Basic
concepts of land and water use, grazing control, organized
land use for pastoralism and agriculture, animal disease
control and drought proofing technology would all have to
be studied and brought together so that final technology
packages could be formulated and demonstrated in a manner
appropriate to, and accepted by, the livestock producers.
4.12      A range and a livestock research division would be established under
the WSDC at Ghazala Gawazat including two range specialists, a forage agrono-
mist, four livestock research officers, a veterinary parasitologist and sup-
port staff (para. 4.33). WSDC would operate the range and livestock programs
until ARC would take over the operation and management of all agricultural
and livestock research in the West (para. 7.02).
Integrated Crop/Livestock Production on Stabilized Sands
4.13      The System.  Livestock and crops are integrated in differing pro-
portions and with varying efficiency on the stabilized sands in the middle
belt of the Project area, between the 250 and 600 mm isoyets. Millet and
groundnuts are the leading crops with some bamia (lady's finger), sesame
and peppers. In the northern part, Acacia senegal is tapped in the dry
season for gum arabic, thus providing a marketable production without labor
competition for wet season crop harvesting. The shifting cultivation tech-
nique includes 4-5 years of cropping with gradually declining yields, and
8-12 years of bush fallows. Longer fallow periods in the north allow the
creation of more efficiently manageable gum gardens but there is mounting
land pressure to reduce the fallow period. A typical production unit would
consist of a family (man, wife or wives and their children) cultivating 2-4
ha of land and living in villages of 10-30 huts. Livestock (desert sheep and
goats used for milk and meat production and for low volume marketing) are re-
quired to stabilize the system because of crop failures in one year out of
five. Local distribution of settlements is a function of water sources which
are abundant over much of the area provided that boreholes have been devel-
oped.
4.14      Constraints on Production.  Marginal and variable rainfall and
low soil fertility are the main reasons for a fragile farming system with
high demand on land. Overstocking is prevalent around villages and grass
fires are destroying most of the pasture; over exploitation of crop land
through shortening fallow periods encourages erosion and dune encroachment;



- 19 -
there is no technology which would allow crop yields to increase by means
other than increased cultivation areas; and there are reciprocal pressures
of livestock and cultivation demands in adjoining and competing production
systems.
4.15      The Research Program.  Research on this integrated livstock/crop
production system would include: differential efficiencies and costs of
crops and livestock within the integrated production systems; the study of
integrating factors such as risk immunization, even use of labor, utiliza-
tion of unsaleable products and the effect of manure on snil fertility;
evolution of permanent crop/fodder/pasture rotations; small farm economic
studies; the social structure of production units; mrrkeLing procedures and
opportunities; and institutional requirements in the subsistence sector.
Technology packages would be developed which would be easily applicable by
subsistence farmers. The environmental impact of innovations would be con-
stantly monitored.
4.16       In developing these packages, particular emphasis would be laid
on:
(i) crops: the testing of food and cash crops, particularly
new millet and groundnut varieties supplied by ARC sta-
tions or ICRISAT; minimum tillage and water management
technology, crop protection, cultivation practices and
their timing; weed control; and - to a lesser extent -
fertilizer use;
(ii)  livestock:  the use of draught animals; milk and meat
production; nutritional values of crop by-products
and residues; fertilizer values of animal wastes; com-
parative productive and reproductive efficiencies of
local cattle, sheep and goats at low and variable feed
supplies;
(iii) pasture and forage: possible new species such as
Stylosanthes (pasture legume) and Cenchrus (grass) to
improve range production; the impact and economics of
forage crops, fertilizers, and irrigation to increase
feed supply at critical times; conserved fodder cut
from pasture and forage crops; crop residues and grain
supplements for the maintenance or survival feeding of
stock during the dry season.
4.17      The research program would be implemented by the WSDC through the
crop division at Ghazala Gawazat (para 4.33). The Project would support the
program by providing socio-economists and two groundnut breeders (para. 4.29).
The trial program to be financed under the Mechanized Farming Project (MFC
III) at El Fuda would be expected to complement the research program and
demonstrate practical solutions to farmers.



- 20 -
Integrated Crop/Livestock Production on Non-Cracking Clays
4.18      The System.  Non-cracking clays are elements of existing produc-
tion systems in the Project area: they do not constitute a production sys-
tem in their own right. They are most detectable in the clay pan-sand alter-
nation of the Baggara pattern; interspersed with cracking clays around the
Nuba Mountains; and in a stabilized sands/non-cracking clays mosaic south
of El Obeid. Non-cracking clays are used mainly for livestock, as water
catchments, and are capable of providing range grasses and browse of high
mineral content.
4.19      Constraints on Production.  The hard surface pan of these basically
fertile soils prevents their use by smallholders: traditional tillage tech-
niques cannot break them up for cropping on a significant scale. Other-
wise similar problems prevail in the production system as described in
para. 4.14.
4.20      The Research Program.  The general approach would be the same as
for the integrated crop/livestock systems on stabilized sands (para. 4.15
and 4.16) with greater risks of drought (El Obeid receives 420 mm average
annual rainfall with a coefficient of variation of 28%). Crop production
research would include millet, and focus on improved tillage technology,
including animal traction at the smallholder level. The wild-growing plant
kerkadeh would be studied regarding its suitability both in an integrated
farming system or as a plantation crop.
4.21       A specialized study on gum arabic (mainly growing on stabilized
sands) would include the establishment and culture of Acacia senegal; gum
arabic secretion; harvesting and marketing; the grid planting of A. senegal
to form shelter breaks, control soil erosion, improve soil fertility through
the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen, and improve the water-holding capacity
of the soil through increased organic matter; the use of the tree as animal
fodder; and its inclusion in an appropriate long-term rotation under range
conditions.
4.22      A multi-disciplinary team comprising a systems agronomist (sub-
program leader), two gum arabic specialists, agricultural engineer, farm
management economist, millet breeder, livestock specialist, kerkadeh spe-
cialist, research liaison officer and support staff would be established
under the Project at El Obeid (Annex 2).
Integrated Crop/Livestock Production on Cracking Clays
4.23      The System.  Cracking clays are characteristic of the south-east
of the Project area. The major differences between this system and that on
stabilized sands (para. 4.13) would be the replacement of millet as the major
crop by sorghum, which is more tolerant of heavy soils, and the replacement
of groundnuts by sesame as the major support crop. In the Nuba Mountains,
cotton is important, replacing gum arabic of the stabilized sands as a cash
crop. Livestock differences also exist: desert sheep decline in importance
and are replaced by goats and cattle.



- 21 -
4.24      Constraints on Production.  In addition to the problems common to
all cultivators in the Project area (para. 4.14), specific problems exist
with regard to the short period for seed bed preparation and planting on
cracking clays; traditional tillage technology limiting the area that can be
cultivated; unimproved sorghum and sesame varieties; weed competition (striga)
in sorghum and post-harvest pests in sesame. Livestock is seriously affected
by mud and flies in the wet season. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the
cracking clays have the greatest development potential of all production
systems under consideration.
4.25      Further to the research program described under the stabilized
sands (paras. 4.15 and 4.16), emphasis would be on:
(i) crops: sorghum, sesame, cotton and soybeans suitable
for reasonable rainfall conditions as in the case of
Kadugli (average rainfall 760 mm/year; coefficient of
variation 18%);
(ii) livestock: animal traction; milk and meat production
of local and introduced breeds of cattle, sheep and
goats, and their crosses;
(iii) pasture and forage: because of the difficulties of
grazing clay soils during the wet season, techniques
of fodder conservation, in particular hay; and
(iv) cultural techniques: examination of hand and mechanized
tools for more rapid and more efficient cultivation of
the difficult black cotton soils; tillage practices by
hand, animal traction and varying degrees of mechaniza-
tion in relation to optimal water use, root penetration
and plant growth, soil erosion, timing of tillage, labor
requirements and economic evaluation.
4.26      A multi-disciplinary systems research team would be stationed at
Kadugli, comprising a plant breeder/agronomist as sub-program leader; two
farm management economists, two agricultural engineers, sorghum breeder,
livestock specialist/forage agronomist, research liaison officer, and sup-
port staff (Annex 2). Close linkages would be established with one ODM
group of scientists expected to be placed with the Nuba Mountains Corpora-
tion shortly.



- 22 -
C. Supporting Research
Water and Land Use Management Research Program
4.27      This program, to be based at Nyala, would support the five multi-
disciplinary systems research teams in the Project area, including the survey,
monitoring and classification of available land and water resources, and their
rational use in crop or livestock production. The efficient use of limited
rainfall is the key to the optimization of crop and animal production in the
West. The main lines of research would include:
(a) resource potential: an inventory and the analysis of previous
investigations, and of existing environmental data for the
Project area such as meteorological records, air photographs
and satellite imagery; the inventory (including maps) would
set out overall system parameters, such as water balance,
primary productivity, pedology, ecological trend, and human
and animal demography;
(b) water management technology: water conservation, infiltration,
penetration, run-off, harvesting, surface, soil profile and
underground storage, evaporation, and efficient minimum use
for crops, livestock and human populations;
(c) socio-economics of water management: comparative costs and
benefits of the techniques of harvesting, storing and using
water; social structures and economic pressures as mechanisms
to control and restrict water use in order to control livestock
numbers, improve rangeland management and improve crop farming;
(d) land use planning: preparation of a land use classification
system for the West based on suitability of land for crop or
livestock production; preparation of land use plans avoiding
conflicts between the interests of pastoralists and cultivators
and including dry season grazing reserves for pastoralists; stock
route planning; improvement of traditional crop farming, and
identification of further settlement areas and localities for
large-scale, mechanized farming and irrigation development;
operational (or pilot) research projects involving land use on
a catchment basis and the main soil types;
(e) solar energy: adapting new solar energy technologies for
cooking, transportation, and the recovery, distillation and
recycling of water.
4.28      The water and land use management research team based at Nyala
would comprise a program leader and deputy leader; soil physicist; soil
chemist; two agro-climatologists; water engineer; and technical support



- 23 -
staff. Field project officers and technical support staff would also be
stationed at El Obeid and Kadugli (Annex 2).
Socio-Economic Support Services
4.29      A group consisting of two sociologists, two economists and a bio-
metrician would be established at Nyala (Annex 2), in order to be available
to the multi-disciplinary research teams in matters concerning economics and
human resources and in project design and analysis. The group would not
carry out its independent research program but be strictly integrated into
the multi-disciplinary sub-programs. The advantages of stationing the group
at Nyala would be to control technical supervision and utilization of research
staff for more than one production system.
Training and Extension Unit (TEU)
4.30      The TEU would organize short refresher courses for scientists and
technicians and prepare brochures and pamphlets for extension staff. It
would be headed by a scientist with training experience, supported by an
assistant training officer (Annex 2). The unit would not be established
until Year 5 when the first research results will become available for ex-
tension and when the first refresher courses are expected to be needed.
Testing and Application of Technology
4.31      Agricultural research on stations risks becoming academic if not
closely linked to farm level problems. New technology would, therefore, not
only be tested at the research station or on a simulated smallholding, but
also on farmers' fields. The research liaison officers to be stationed at
Nyala, El Obeid and Kadugli would be responsible for the adaptation of the
technology packages to practical farming conditions; they would also be re-
sponsible for the transfer of technical language into simple leaflets for
extension staff and for field days. The most important delivery systems of
new technology to farmers would be the field services of the WSDC in Southern
Darfur (paras. 4.32-4.34), and the MFC (para. 4.35) and the Nuba Mountains
Corporation in Southern Kordofan. Several other regional development projects
in Southern Kordofan including one ODM Project (para. 4.26), are expected to
establish agricultural extension services after the first research results
have become available for application.
D. Linkages with Regional Development Projects
Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC)
4.32      The WSDC has been established to coordinate and undertake compre-
hensive development projects in the South Darfur Province, including initially
an ODM/Abu-Dhabi financed project in the Southern District and the IDA/Saudi
Fund financed Savannah Development Project (SDP).



- 24 -
4.33      WSDC would operate a sizeable investigational program at Ghazala
Gawazat covering range management, animal production and crops. This program
would meet the research needs of two production systems in the West: (i) the
semi-arid Livestock Production Systems Program for the traditional cattle-
-wning populations of Southern Darfur and the camel/cattle tribes at the
western edge of Northern Darfur (para. 4.12); and (ii) the Integrated Live-
stock and Crop Production Systems Program for the stabilized sands (Qoz) of
Southern Darfur (para. 4.17) at a cost of about US$16.6 million over a six-
year Project life. As stipulated in the Credit Agreement of the SDP, all
research in the West would be transferred to the Agricultural Research Proj-
ect as soon as ARC is equipped and fully operational to handle the research
program. The Research Plan for the West (para. 7.02) would include detailed
proposals for the transfer of WSDC research to ARC, not later than five years
after Project effectiveness. Meanwhile, Project and ARC headquarters staff
would serve in an advisory capacity to WSDC for experiment program planning
and design through the production systems program leader, and in turn staff
of WSDC would make available their knowhow in range, livestock and crops
research. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (i) GOS shall
cause WSDC to transfer to ARC all of WSDC's research facilities in the West
not later than five years after Project effectiveness, in accordance with
a schedule to be agreed upon during the mid-term Project review; (ii) GOS
shall, until the completion of such transfer, ensure effective technical
cooperation between ARC and WSDC; and (iii) the Saudi Fund as co-financier
of SDP and all other external financiers assisting in WSDC s research pro-
grams in the West (Abu-Dhabi Government, ODM and EC) will be given a reason-
able opportunity to comment on the measures for effecting such transfer.
4.34      WSDC would also operate a field trials program on six small nucleus
development centers for crops and three range stations which would not be
transferred to ARC.  Equally, WSDC's extension and training facilities would
not be transferred, but serve as a delivery mechanism of new technology to
the producers.
Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC)
4.35      MFC is proposing to establish a development center at El Fuda in
Southern Kordofan being financed under the Third Mechanized Farming Project.
It would, inter alia, comprise a field trials program to identify suitable
farming systems including livestock on sandy soils which would comprise farm
mechanization with tractors. Such mechanized farming development would be
oriented towards small-scale farmers, and to a lesser extent to extensive
large-scale operations. It is anticipated that the trial program would be
implemented in close cooperation with the WSDC field trials and experimenta-
tion component, and backed up by the Research Project's team to be stationed
at Kadugli.



- 25 -
V. THE PROJECT
A.  Summary Project Description
5.01      The Project would, over a six-year period, develop and operate ARC's
research capability in the West, and provide support services at ARC's new
Khartoum headquarters to be established under the Project. In particular,
the Project would include:
(a) two research programs dealing with: (i) livestock and
crop production systems at El Obeid (integrated crop/
livestock on non-cracking clays), Kadugli (integrated
crop/livestock on cracking clays) and El Fasher (arid
livestock) - in close cooperation with WSDC - Ghazala
Gawazat (integrated crop/livestock on stabilized sands
and semi-arid livestock); and (ii) water and land use
management research at Nyala, including research support
services;
(b) development of an ARC research center and regional headquarters
at Nyala; and of research stations at El Ob5id, Kadugli and El
Fasher, including 128 houses, about 4 200 m of office space and
field laboratories, and about 2,700 mJ of farm buildings, land-
scaping and fencing; plus furniture and office/housing equipment;
(c) 7 mobile research units, 21 four-wheel-drive vehicles, 32 motor
cars, 1 minibus, 5 tractors plus farm implements, and 1 aircraft;
(d)  purchase of an office building (about 2,400 m2) for ARC's head-
quarters to be moved to Khartoum;
(e) strengthening of ARC's headquarters through the establishment
of a Project Support Unit (PSU) and a Planning Evaluation Unit
(PEU);
(f) employment of 46 scientists of which ten would be internationally
recruited for a total of 49 man-years; and about 90 scientific
and about 160 other supporting staff;
(g) 80 man-months of short-term consultancies;
(h) funds for contract research to be carried out by specialised
research institutions other than ARC;
(i) 28 research fellowships (6 for Ph.D, 5 for M.Sc. and 17 for
non-degree specialization courses) for Sudanese scientists;



- 26 -
(j) limited funds for Project scientists to attend international
conferences; and
(k) a small purchases fund.
5.02      The Project would be implemented by ARC through a regional head-
quarters to be established at Nyala, supported by the new ARC headquarters at
Khartoum. The Project would consist of two phases: a development phase of
about three years and a research phase of a further three years.
B. Detailed Features
Research Station Development
5.03      Funds would be provided for the following facilities:
(a) Nyala: development of a research center a2d Project head-
quarters facilities would comprise 1,500 m offices, lab-
oratories, a documentation center and a conference room;
and 55 staff houses;
(b) El Fasher: development of a research station inclMding
about 550 m offices and field laboratories, 300 m farm
buildings, 16 staff houses and minor fencing;
(c)  El Obeid:  development of a 300 fd research station, with
about 1,000 m offices and field laboratories, 1,200 m farm
buildings, 28 staff houses, land-scaping and fencing; and
(d)  Kadugli:  development of a 500 fd research station with
about 1,100 m offices and field laboratories, 1,200 m
farm buildings, 29 houses and landscaping and fencing.
The specifications and space provisions of the housing, offices, field labor-
atories and farm buildings at the four research stations conform with those
adopted for similar World Bank projects in Indonesia, Brazil and Spain, and
with recently built international agricultural research centers. The estimated
base cost of a light weight building system for which parts would be p5efab-
ricated abroad and airfreighted to the const uction sites is bSd 225/m  5or
offices and laboratory facilities, ISd 190/m  for housing, and MSd 112/m
for farm buildings as at Khartoum; these costs would be increased by 15% at
Nyala to 25% at Kadugli due to the remoteness of the area.
Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles
5.04      Furniture and equipment would be provided for all houses, offices
and laboratories constructed under the Project. In addition, the seven



- 27 -
mobile units, 21 four-wheel drives, 32 cars, 1 minibus, 1 aircraft, 5 trac-
tors plus implements and 14 radios (receiver/transmitter) would be deployed
as specified in Table Tl. Mobile units would be provided to the Research
Teams to enable them to carry out field testing of research results. Each
unit would consist of a converted four wheel drive truck with basic labora-
tory facilities together with camping equipment. Appropriate spales would
be obtained for all equipment to avoid later difficulties. Sufficient fuel
supplies would be stored at each Project station to avoid possible breakdowns
of supplies.
Strengthening of ARC Headquarters
5.05      To enable ARC to effectively operate and administer a nation-wide
balanced agricultural research program, it would be essential to move its
headquarters from Wad Medani to Khartoum. The Project would provide for
the purchase of a suitable office building in Khartoum including office fur-
niture and equipment; included also would be conference facilities, a docu-
mentation center, and an illus ration and graphics studio.  The space needs
are estimated at about 2,400 m at a cost of about US$1.6 million.
5.06      The Project would establish two units in the ARC headquarters de-
signed both to support Project implementation in the West and to strengthen
ARC's central research administration capability.
(a) the Project Support Unit (PSU) would be established in
year 1 and would comprise the Senior Research Adviser
to the DG of ARC, the Project Liaison Officer, the Project
Architect/Planner and an accountant/procurement officer
(Annex 2); its functions would include (i) advice to the DG
on research policies and programs; (ii) technical back-up
for the Project in the West such as the procurement of goods,
planning and administration of civil works and assistance
to the Nyala Project headquarters in financial control and
budget preparation; and (iii) liaison for the Project with
Government and the Universities; and
(b) the Planning and Evaluation Unit (PEU), to be established
in year 1, would strengthen ARC's planning and evaluation
capacity and would be headed by a Research Planning and
Evaluation Adviser (Annex 2); its functions would include:
(i) developing a uniform 'project system' within ARC for
effective planning, direction, evaluation and overall man-
agement of research which would be adopted; (ii) the devel-
opment and operation of a Project monitoring and evaluation
system; (iii) assisting in the preparation of a detailed
Research Plan for the West (para. 7.02); (iv) arranging
for an external Project review in years 3 and 6 by inter-
nationally recognized scientists; (v) carrying out an
annual internal review of all ARC research programs with
regard to their priority order, technical soundness and
progress in implementation; and (vi) the preparation of
a Project completion report according to World Bank guide-
lines.



- 28 -
StaffinR
5.07      A total of 46 scientists and senior administrators, about 90 scien-
tific and about 16G other supporting staff would be employed under the Proj-
ect, at five different locations, in four different programs and in twelve
different disciplines (Table TI and Annex 2). 16 of them would be key staff:
The Project Director; Deputy Project Director; Project Liaison Officer; a
land and water use specialist - program leader and his deputy; an agro-cli-
matologist; a range specialist - sub-program leader arid livestock production
system; a sociologist - discipline leader; a production systems specialist -
production systems research program leader; a sub-program leader - cracking
clays; a sub-program leader - non-cracking clays; a farm management econ-
omist - discipline leader; an agricultural engineer - discipline leader; the
Senior Research Adviser to the DG; the Project Architect/Planner and the
Research Planning and Evaluation Adviser. The Project Director, a Sudanese
national, to be stationed at Nyala, would have the rank of a Chief Scientist
with wide experience in livestock/crop research. In particular, he would
need to be a person strongly oriented towards applied production, with the
experience and ability to lead a multi-disciplinary research team and to
cooperate with extension services and development authorities. He would be
supported by a Deputy Project Director who would be a scientist with experi-
ence in livestock, plant or soil research, and in directing a research pro-
gram. The Senior Research Adviser to the DG would be stationed at ARC head-
quarters in Khartoum, head PSU, and advise the DG in all matters concerning
research policies and programs. An assurance was obtained from Government
that senior Project staff will have qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to IDA; the appointment of the Project Director, Deputy Project Director,
and Senior Research Adviser to the DG, is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
The Minister, MAFNR, has already nominated a Project Director who participated
in the Project negotiations and is acceptable to IDA. Continuity would be
important for the successful implementation of the Project. Therefore, an
assurance was obtained during negotiations that staff appointments will be for
a minimum of 5 years in case of the Project Director, his Deputy, the Senior
Research Adviser to the DG, and the Production Systems Research Program
Leader; and not less than 2 years for all other senior staff.
5.08      For ten key posts of the 16, it would be unlikely to find suitable
candidates within the Sudan and these would be recruited internationally: the
Senior Research Adviser to the DG, Project Architect/Planner, and Research
Planning and Evaluation Adviser would be based at Khartoum; the Deputy Project
Director, Production Systems Specialist, Land and Water Use Specialist, Agro-
Climatologist and Sociologist at Nyala; and the Farm Management Economist and
Agricultural Engineer at Kadugli. Base costs for 49 man-years are estimated
at US$3.7 million. USAID would provide the 7 expatriates for the West under
its Title 12 procedures through a management contract with the Consortium
for International Development (CID) of the Western Universities; and would
be expected to contract IADS for providing the three expatriates for ARC's
Khartoum headquarters. These contracts would stipulate that the Deputy
Project Director and the Production Systems Research Program Leader would
stay no less than 5 years and the other individual research staff a minimum
of 2 years on the Project.



- 29 -
Short-Term Consultancies
5.09      The Project would provide US$0.4 million (base cost) for 80 man-
months of short-term consultancies (12-14 man-months per year) to be used
for the preparation of the Research Plan due in year 3 (para. 7.02); project
monitoring (para. 7.17); specialized consultancies in the research programs;
procurement assistance; and the external Project reviews in Years 3 and 6.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that consultants to be employed
will have qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
Contract Research
5.10      Funds are also being provided (US$0.5 million) for special research
problems that are important but cannot be handled within the framework of ARC.
Specialized institutions, mainly outside Sudan, would be contacted for this
task. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that such research insti-
tutions shall be selected by the Project Director in consultation with IDA.
Overseas Training and Conferences
5.11      The Project would provide US$0.5 million for 28 overseas research
fellowships for scientific staff of which 6 would be for Ph.D. degrees (four
years); 5 for M.Sc. degrees (two years) and 17 for non-degree specialization
courses from 3 to 12 months. Candidates would be selected from among those
staff who have served at least six months under the Project in the West to
ensure that they are fully familiar with existing problems. Candidates would
be selected by the DG, the Project Director and the Senior Research Adviser
to the DG in consultation with IDA.
5.12      Limited funds (US$0.01 million) would be provided for Project scien-
tists to attend international meetings and conferences of their discipline.
Candidates would be selected by the DG, the Project Director and the Senior
Research Adviser to the DG in consultation with IDA.
Building Consultancies
5.13      Funds (US$1.0 million) would be provided for the Project to recruit
an international firm of executive architects (para. 7.07), to prepare a
development plan study and report, and to give procurement assistance to PSU.
Small Purchases Fund
5.14      A small purchases fund (US$0.5 million) would be provided to enable
the Project to buy and maintain experimental animals and necessary inputs,
and to cover other small expenses.



- 30 -
Table Ti
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff and Physical Inputs by Location
El               El
Unit Khartoum Nyala Fasher Kadugli Obeid Total
Staff 4!
Senior Staff - Total             No      2 -        22       4        8       10     46
- of which internationally
recruited                   No      (3)         (5)    --        (2)      --    (10)
Administrative Staff             No      3           4       2        3        3     15
Technicians                      No      -          24       4       14       12     54
Asst. Technicians                No      -          15       5        9        8      37
Secretaries                      No      2          12       3        6        7     28
Head Drivers                     No      1           1       1        1        1       5
Drivers                          No      5          14      5        17       15     56
Laborers                         No      1           6       5       34       12     58
Total Staff         No     14          98      29       92       68    301
Buildings
Offices and Labs                 m2      -       1,500    550    1,100   1,000  4,150
Farm Buildings                   m 2     -         --     300    1,200   1,200  2,700
Houses                           No      -          55      16       29       28    128
Vehicles
Mobile Units                     No      -           2       1        2        2       7
4-wheel drive                    No      -           7      4         4        6     21
Motor Cars                       No      6           8       1       10        7      32
Minibus                          No      -           1      --                --       1
Total Vehicles      No       6         18       6        16      15      61
Aircraft                              No       -           1     --        --      --       1
Tractors                              No       -         --      --         4       1       5
Radios                                No       1           5      2         3        3     14
1/ Status during Year 6 (except expatriates: Year 5)
May 23, 1978



Table T2
- 31. -
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total                        Local     Foreign      Total              Exchange
__------(LSd 'ooo)                                            (uVb) ------ .. --(US7 0)--- _
Capital Costs
Construction                                                2,132       3,958       6,o90                       5,330       9.895      15,225                 65
Professional Fees and Site Supervision                        403        --           403                       1,608        --         1,008                 --
ARC Headquarters Building                                     650         29          652                       1,625        --         I,625                 --
Furniture and Equipment                                       136         290         426                         340         725       i,o65                 68
Vehicles, Farm Machinery                                      190         198         388                         475         495         970                 51
Aircraft                                                       11         116         127                           27        290         317                 91
Farm Development                                               26          21          47                          65          53         118                 45
Small Porchases Fund                                          180          20         200                         450          50         500                 10
Total Capital Costs                        3,728       4,603       8,331                       9,320      11,508      20,828                55
Operating Costs
Local Salaries                                              1,822        --         1,822                       4,555        --         4,555                 --
Accommodation                                                  42        --            42                         105        --           105                 --
Office Expenditure                                             21          31          52                          52          77         129                 6o
Transport                                                      46          95         141                         115         238         353                 67
Building Maintenance                                          145         176         321                         363         44o         803. 55
Equipment Maintenance                                          49         100         149                         122         250         372                 67
Aircraft Operation                                             59         130         189                         148         324         472                 69
Farm Costs                                                     14          63          97                           35        208         243                 86
Total Operating Costs                      2,198         6i5       2,813                       5,495       1,537       7,032                 22
echnical Assistance
Internationally Recruited Staff                               206       1,267       1,473                         515       3,168       3,683                 86
Training                                                       6o         126         186                         150         315         465                 68
Conferences                                                  --            11          11                        --            27          27                100
Short-term  Consultancies                                    --           360         360                        --           900         900                100
Building Program                                             --           400         400                        --         1,000       1,000                100
Total Technical Assistance                   266       2,164      2,430                          665       5,410       6,075                89
TOTAL BASE COST                     6,192       7,382      13,574                      15,480      18,455      33,935                 54
Physical Contingencies                                                   320         594         914                         Bo0       1,485       2,285                 65
spected Price Increase                                                 1,946       1,726       3,672                       4,865       4,315       9,180                 h7
Total Contingencies                        2,266       2,320      4,586                        5,665       5,800      11,465                51
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  8,458       9,702      1LIM0 21,145                              24,255    45,1400                53
May 26, 1978



- 32 -
VI. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
6.01      Total Project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
US$45.4 million of which about US$24.2 million or about 53% would be in
foreign exchange. Costs are detailed in Annex 3 and are summarized in
Table T2.
6.02      Cost estimates are based on prices projected to April 1978 and
include (a) a 15% physical contingency for construction works, and (b) ex-
pected price increases totalling 27% of total base Project cost. Expected
price increases have been estimated as follows:
Equipment             Civil Works           Other Costs
Foreign    Local       Foreign    Local       Foreign    Local
1978          7          13          8          13          8          13
1979          6.5        11          7.5        11          7          11
1980-85       6           8          7           8          6.5         8
Import duties and other taxes, estimated at US$6.8 million, have been in-
cluded. Costs of internationally recruited personnel are estimated at
US$72,000 per man-year of which 86% would be in foreign exchange. Local
salaries have been increased by 30% above present ARC scales, as a hardship
allowance for the West and in line with salary arrangements for the SDP.
It would be a condition of Credit effectiveness that ARC has completed a study
comparing its salaries and benefits with those provided by other comparable
institutions, such as the universities, employing high calibre staff, and has
adopted incentives satisfactory to GOS and IDA for its staff to be assigned to
work on the Project.
B. Proposed Financing
6.03      It is proposed that Project costs be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:



- 33 -
of Total          of Net
US$ million    Project Cost    Project Cost
IDA                                  15.0              33               39
USAID                                20.0              44               52
GOS                                   3.6               8                9
Net Project Cost               38.6               85             100
Taxes and Duties                      6.8              15
Total Project Cost             45.4              100
6.04      The proposed IDA Credit of US$15.0 million would be on standard
terms to GOS which would pass it on as a grant to ARC. The Credit would
cover about US$15.0 million or 62% of the foreign exchange costs, correspond-
ing to about 39% of net Project costs. USAID would contribute US$20.0 mil-
lion or 52% of net Project costs. The USAID grant would finance US$9.2 mil-
lion or 38% of foreign exchange costs and US$10.8 million of local costs. GOS
would contribute the remaining US$10.4 million or 23% of total Project costs
(including taxes and duties of US$6.8 million), or US$3.6 million or 9% of net
Project costs.
6.05      Contributions by IDA, USAID, and Government would be channelled as
a grant directly to the ARC, which would establish a separate bank account
for the Project. A Project Agreement has been negotiated between ARC and
IDA regarding the use of the IDA Credit. Conditions of Credit effectiveness
are that (i) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the USAID Grant
Agreement have been fulfilled; and (ii) GOS has deposited into ARC's Project
account an amount of no less than iSd 200,000 to meet start-up expenditures.
GOS gave an assurance during negotiations that, based on the approved work
plan (para. 7.17), it will credit the Project account every six months with
sufficient funds to meet expenditures expected to be made directly by ARC
in respect of the Project during the next six months and required to carry
out the approved work plan. Major investment items would be paid directly
from the IDA Credit or be reimbursed to the Project account upon appropriate
documentation.
C. Budgetary Implications
6.06      Following Project completion, the annual recurrent costs of agri-
cultural research in the West on the same scale as under the Project would
be about US$3.3 million, in 1983 prices. After deduction of GOS's present



- 34 -
fund allocation to agricultural research in the West (US$0.4 million in 1983
terms), about US$2.9 million would have to be provided from the GOS budget
annually. Although this means a substantial increase from present alloca-
tions, it would only be about 1/2% of the projected agricultural output of
the West in 1983 terms, 1/ thus being below agricul-ural research alU   'ic.
in the Center and East.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Phasing
7.01      During the first three years, the Project would primarily be con-
cerned with the development of research facilities, the procurement of vehi-
cles and equipment, and the hiring of scientific and support staff. There
would be limited scope to carry out an integrated multi-disciplinary research
program during this phase. However, several preparatory activities would be
undertaken: overseas training of Sudanese scientific Project staff (para.
5.11); preparation of the research program planning and budgeting system
(para. 7.17); introduction of cost accounting for research programs (para.
7.16); preparation of and agreement on the detailed Research Plan for the
West (para. 7.02); development of the Project monitoring and evaluation sys-
tem (para. 5.06b); and Project reporting (para. 7.17).
7.02      By the end of the first half of Year 3, the Project Director would,
with the assistance of PSU and PEU in Khartoum, prepare a detailed Research
Plan for the West and estimate the costs until Project completion in Year 6.
This plan would form the basis of a mid-term Project review by a panel of
three distinguished international scientists, and representatives from USAID
and IDA; it would also include detailed proposals for the transfer of the
research activities of WSDC in the West (including Ghazala Gawazat) to ARC,
at an appropriate time, but not later than five years after Credit effective-
ness. The results of this review would form the basis of the work programs
for Years 4-6 to be agreed between GOS, USAID and IDA. An assurance was
obtained from GOS that a mid-term Project review will be carried out involv-
ing three distinguished international scientists, USAID and IDA to review
the detailed Research Plan proposals by the Project for Years 4-6 and to
review the plan of transferring the research facilities from WSDC to the
ARC, which shall be completed no later than five years after Credit effec-
tiveness.
7.03      A second Project review would be arranged in Year 6 when the first
research results would be forthcoming, and when the stage would have to be
set for the future orientation of agricultural research in the West.
1/   1977 output per family of 6:  about US$400; real growth per year 5%.



- 35 -
B. Organization and Management
7.04      ARC's DG would have overall responsibility for Project Implementa-
tion; he would be the chairman of the Project Advisory Council (PAC) (para.
7.09); nominate the Project Director candidate for approval by th- Minister
of Agriculture and IDA (already done); approve the annual work plans, and
the research program monitoring and evaluation systems (para. 7.18).
7.05      Day-to-day management of the Project would be under the responsi-
bility of the Project Director to be stationed at Nyala. He would direct
and coordinate all agricultural research programs in the West (para. 3.29);
in particular, he will be authorized to (i) assign the scientific and admin-
istrative staff under the Project; (ii) direct and operate the research sta-
tions under the Project; coordinate the activities of PSU and PEU at Khartoum
and TEU at Nyala; and (iv) be responsible for financial and budget control
and ARC has given assurances to this effect. He would be supported by the
Deputy Project Director in all matters, by the Production Systems Program
Leader in systems research matters, and in stations management by the Station
Superintendent who would also be in charge of the administration of the Nyala
Center.
7.06      Substations and their research programs would be managed by the
sub-program leaders (para. 3.29), supported by farm managers at El Obeid
and Kadugli. The farm managers would run the research farms on a day-to-
day basis, referring difficulties to the sub-program leader. The water
and land use research program would be coordinated by its program leader;
socio-economic support would be coordinated by the Production Systems Re-
search Program Leader.
Civil Works
7.07      A firm of international executive architects would be hired by
March 31, 1979 to preprare the building plans, implementation schedules,
bidding and contract documents, carry out bid analysis, advise on the awards
of contracts, and supervise construction. The Project Architect/Planner
would supervise the executive architects and liaise closely with research
staff on building design. Resident site supervision would be provided by
the Ministry of Construction and Works with customary periodic supervision
by the executive architects. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that (a) ARC shall employ, not later than March 31, 1979, executive archi-
tects with adequate qualifications and experience; and (b) GOS shall cause
the Ministry of Public Works to provide qualified personnel in adequate num-
bera to assist the executive architects in supervising the construction of
civil works.
7.08      GOS would transfer to ARC the land and land rights required for
the research stations in the West; this land would be selected in consulta-
tion with the executive architects (para. 7.07) and would be suitable for
the purposes of the Project. During negotiations, GOS gave assurances to



- 36 -
this effect. Furthermore, utilities (water, roads, and, where appropriate,
electricity) which are not expected to be significant, would be provided to
the site boundaries; an assurance was obtained at negotiations that this
would be provided at no extra cost to the Project.
Project Advisory Council (PAC)
7.09      PAC would be appointed to assist in identifying priority problems
and needs, in guiding the research programs and in encouraging the most
effective dissemination and application of improved technology. This Coun-
cil, which would serve in an advisory capacity and not in a management role,
would be chaired by ARC's DG, and the Project Director would serve as its
secretary. It would appropriately include representatives of the:
(a) concerned departments of MAFNR;
(b) WSDC;
(c) University of Khartoum;
(d) International agricultural research centers such as
ICRISAT, ILCA and ICARDA;
(e) the provincial authorities at the governorate level; and
(f) such other public or private agencies as ARC's DG shall
decide.
PAC would meet once a year and would aim particularly to keep the research
programs directed to the priority needs and practical problems of both the
area development projects and the traditional farming community.
Scope of ARC Research
7.10      The organization plan for ARC as proposed by the Joint Team is
shown in Chart 18379. While the Project was designed to fit the newly pro-
posed structure, it could largely be implemented without these changes taking
place, except for those central units which are being financed under the
Project to strengthen the ARC headquarters (para. 5.06). It would, however,
be indispensable that animal production research be fully integrated with
crops research, if the concept of agro-ecological systems research (para.
3.28) is to succeed. An assurance was given at negotiations that GOS will
cause MAFNR to integrate fully all agricultural and animal production re-
search.
Linkage with other ARC Research
7.11      The Project would for the first time introduce a production systems
approach within ARC (para. 3.28c) which would require close linkages with
national commodity and factor programs for optimum results, however, the



- 37 -
Project would not provide for the funding of national commodity and factor
program coordinators, who would mainly be located outside the Project area
anyway. Part of the coordinators to be stationed in the Project area have
already been provided by ICRISAT and are currently located at Wad Medani
(1 millet breeder and 1 assistant millet breeder). These staff would be
moved to the research stations in the West as soon as physical facilities
had been developed and research teams assembled. In addition, kerkadeh and
gum arabic would be mainly of local importance and not in need of a strong
national coordinating mechanism: the specialist research officers provided
under the Project would be available for advice to other regions if and when
required.
7.12      To ensure that agricultural research under the Project would benefit
from research advances and the professional capabilities of the International
Agricultural Research Centers (Centers) (Annex 1), several mechanisms would be
employed:
(a) representatives of the relevant Centers would be invited
to serve as members on the PAC (para. 7.09);
(b) the Senior Research Adviser to the DG and the Deputy Project
Director would monitor the Centers' activities and assess
how they could be utilized for agricultural research in the
Sudan, particularly in the West;
(c) the Project would provide facilities for national commodity
and factor program research coordinators to be located in
the Project area, and supplied by the Centers, such as in
the case of millet (para. 7.11); and
(d) it would be expected that the three distinguished interna-
tional scientists to be invited for the mid-term Project
review in Year 3 would be members of the Centers.
C. Procurement 1/
7.13      Procurement of civil works construction (US$15.2 million); and
one aircraft (US$0.3 million) would be subject to international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank guidelines in the case of con-
tracts over US$75,000. Tenders would be lumped together in order to attract
major international and/or local contractors and suppliers, and this would
be monitored through the annual work programs to be submitted to IDA (para.
7.17). The total amount of ICB would be US$16.5 million or 49% of the Proj-
ect's base cost. In the case of contracts of less than US$75,000 but more
1/   Amounts expressed without contingencies.



- 38 -
than US$10,000, procurement would be through competitive bidding in accord-
ance with standard GOS procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. For con-
tracts under US$10,000, direct competitive purchasing would be employed.
USAID would finance the purchase of an office building for ARC in Khartoum;
office and laboratory equipment and furniture, vehicles and farm machinery
under USAID's regulations. The services of internationally recruited staff
(para. 5.08), executive architects (para. 7.07), short-term consultants (para.
5.09) and contracted research institutions (para. 5.10) would also be obtained
following USAID procurement procedures. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the described procurement procedures be followed for goods
to be financed under the IDA Credit and that GOS will, upon ARC's request,
promptly grant the necessary import licenses and foreign exchange for the
Project.
D. Disbursement
7.14      The IDA Credit would be disbursed against 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for civil works construction (US$9.9 million), and the purchase of an
aircraft (US$0.3 million) and aircraft spare parts and services (US$50,000);
and against 60% of the locally procured aircraft operating costs (US$250,000).
Disbursements against aircraft operating costs would be made against certifi-
cates of expenditures, the documentation of which would not be submitted for
review, but would be retained by ARC and available for inspection by IDA
supervision missions. An amount of US$4.5 million would be unallocated.
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
7.15      ARC's budget procedures are laid down in the 1977 ARC Act.  Each
station prepares its (Chapter II) expenses budget. This is discussed and
consolidated at headquarters, whose staff add the (Chapter I) salaries and
development budgets. Chapters I and II are submitted to the Ministry of
Finance and the development budget to the Ministry of National Planning.
The agreed budgets constitute the cash operating limits of the stations,
which they must not exceed without the approval of headquarters. Salaries
are paid by headquarters. Most of the travel and office expenses are also
paid directly by headquarters and charged to the stations. The stations
keep simple records of income and expenditure, and submit monthly statements
to headquarters where they are consolidated. Monthly accounts are presented
to the Director General or his Deputy. Annual accounts are produced within
6 months of the year-end (June 30); they take the form of an income and ex-
penditure statement, similar to the monthly consolidated statement. There is
no balance sheet. Audit of ARC by the Auditor General's Office is thorough,
but the auditors have not assessed the adequacy of the accounting system.
They prepare a detailed review of transactions, but no short-form report.
7.16      ARC would establish a Project accounting system which would reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained and sound practices, a true and
fair view of the use of funds for each of the different programs in the West



- 39 -
and for the ARC headquarters in Khartoum. Project expenditures would be con-
solidated at the Nyala headquarters. All accounts would be audited annually.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOS that ARC shall main-
tain separate Project accounts and shall (i) have such accounts audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii) furnish IDA with certified
copies of the auditor's report not later than six months after the~ closing
of each financial year, of such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably
request.
F. Planning, Programming and Budgeting
7.17      Beginning with year 2, the Project Director assisted by the PSU in
Khartoum would prepare annual Project work plans and budgets three months in
advance of the beginning of the next fiscal year which would be forwarded to
IDA in time to comment. The annual work plans would set out the objectives
of each research program and the demand on the Project's facilities, manpower
and funds. Detailed proposals would be given for the allocation of funds to
each research program and station on a quarterly basis. Progress would be
monitored against this plan and budget, and quarterly progress reports would
be forwarded by the Project Director to IDA.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
7.18      The PEU financed under the Project (para. 5.06) would design ARC's
research project monitoring and evaluation system and implement it.
H. Environmental Impact
7.19      The Project would be a major effort to stop environmental degrada-
tion, and to develop technology for the rehabilitation and sustained produc-
tive utilization of semi-arid and arid areas which are ecologically fragile.
VIII. ASSUMPTIONS ON BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      Ex ante measurement of net benefit from research is difficult and
quantification of the resources required to achieve research results is
highly speculative. The result of a rate of return calculation depends, to
a large extent, on the amount of time that elapses between the expenditure
of resources and the production of useful results, and also on the time-lag
until research results are applied by producers. For these reasons, no rate
of return calculation has been attempted for this Project.



- 40 -
8.02      Although Sudanese agricultural research expenditures fall short
of the 1% of output allocation that is generally accepted 1/, the Sudan
allocates a reasonable level of resources to agricultural research. In
1975, the Sudan spent about US$10-12 million or about 0.6-0.7% of agri-
cultural production for agricultural research and extension; this is much
higher than the 0.045% of agricultural production quoted as an average for
sub-Saharan countries back in 1965, 2/ and the 0.25% quoted as an average
for developing countries in 1975. 2/ Account should also be taken that
much research for developing countries has been financed by developed coun-
tries, especially during the post-independence years in sub-Saharan Africa.
8.03      The research program in the West would have a long-term demand on
resources corresponding to no more than about 0.5% of the Region's agricultural
production (para. 6.06). To extend the same intensity of research coverage
to other neglected areas such as the South and the East would increase the
budgetary requirements to about US$20 million annually (in 1983 terms) or less
than 1% of agricultural output. But it would correct the current heavy tilt
towards the commercial sector. Furthermore, any reasonably expected produc-
tion increase would reduce the relative resource allocation, which is there-
fore justified.
8.04      In view of the low productivity  of agriculture and livestock in
the West in comparison to the untapped (though limited) potential, the
concept of relating research expenditure to the output of an industry must
be challenged. It may be more appropriate to relate resource allocations for
research to the perceived production potential of the Region and the research
needs to activate it. Considering that potential yield increases are esti-
mated at 50% for groundnuts 3/ and 70% for sorghum 4/, and millet yields are
far below those obtained elsewhere in the World, significant economic gains
could be realized from relatively small increases in factor productivity,
given the availability of unused land and labor. This would, in turn,
increase family incomes from the present level of US$400 for a family of six,
which just equals the estimated poverty income level of US$65 per capita for
the Sudan. However, much of the expected production increases could not be
credited to research because the application of known improved technology
and better input supplies are purely organizational problems and would also
increase production. Nevertheless, there is ample evidence that investments
in agricultural research have high rates of return and are especially impor-
tant in fostering technology transfer from more advanced countries.
1/   R.E. Evenson.  Investment in Agricultural Research - A Survey Paper,
1973.
2/   Evenson and Kislev:  Agricultural Research and Productivity, 1975.
3/   D.E. McCloud:  Groundnut Production and Research in the Sudan; Ford
Foundation, 1975.
4/   L.R. House and B.H. Somaroo:  Sorghum Research in the Sudan, Ford
Foundation, 1975.



- 41 -
8.05      The allocation of resources for agricultural research should also
be justified in relation to the ecological potential of the area in which
rainfall and soil quality are the most important factors. For example,
fertile cracking clays and relatively good rainfall at Kadugli offer better
possibilities for increased production than sandy soils at Nyala; and these,
in turn offer more scope for improvement than the range areas around El
Fasher. Farming systems research at Kadugli is, therefore, well justified
with high probability of economic returns. For the stabilized sands, farming
systems research is urgently required to develop a soil-conserving and less
land-demanding system to replace shifting cultivation in order that a growing
population can be sustained without deterioration of resources. For the dry
range areas to the north, no revolutionary breakthrough should be expected
in terms of increased output; but methods have to be developed to stop the
advance of the desert, to minimize the drought risks for the people and to
obtain maximum sustained range production. Because of the ecological simi-
larities, some of the research results may also be applicable in the East of
the Sudan. All the research programs to be financed under the Project are,
therefore, well justified.
Risks
8.06      There are three kinds of risks which could affect the overall suc-
cess of the Project: (i) implementation risks; (ii) unsatisfactory transfer
of research results to the producer; and (iii) speed of acceptance and adop-
tion of the new technology by the producer. In order to reduce the imple-
mentation risk, great care was taken to strengthen ARC's management capabil-
ity through organizational arrangements, training programs and provision of
technical assistance. Regarding the transfer of research results to the pro-
ducer, recent GOS steps to bring more effective extension to the producer
through the WSDC, MFC and Nuba Mountains Agricultural Production Corpora-
tion are commendable. However, these Corporations only cover part of the
area. The Government has about 5 years until the new research begins to
produce results, and this should be used to expand delivery systems in the
region. Discussions about expanding the extension service are taking place
in several contexts, including discussion of the Sector Report and individual
projects, especially a Smallholder Package Project under consideration by
IDA. In respect of the third risk, rejection or slow acceptance of new
technology by the producer, measures have been taken to ensure that research
results will be tested under practical farming conditions before advocating
them through the extension system. These risks must be balanced against the
greater certainty that, without the Project, the long-term degradation of
the West would be accelerated, and the incomes and the way of life of the
inhabitants seriously jeopardized.



- 42 -
IX. SUMMARY ON AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS
9.01      At negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOS that:
(a) Government will prepare a study on possible means of financing
future agricultural research from sources other than budgetary
allocation for the mid-term review of the Project in Year 3
(para. 3.33);
(b) (i) Government shall cause WSDC to transfer to ARC all of
WSDC's research facilities in the West not later than five
years after Project effectiveness, in accordance with a
schedule to be agreed upon during the mid-term Project
review; (ii) Government shall, until the completion of
such transfer, ensure effective technical cooperation
between ARC and WSDC; and (iii) the Saudi Fund as co-
financier of SDP and all other external financiers
assisting in WSDC's research programs in the West will
be given a reasonable opportunity to comment on the meas-
ures for effecting such transfer (para. 4.33);
(c) senior Project staff will have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.07);
(d) staff appointments will be for a minimum of 5 years in case
of the Project Director, the Deputy Project Director, the
Production Systems Research Program Leader and the Senior
Research Adviser to the DG; and 2 years for all other senior
staff (para. 5.07);
(e) consultants to be hired under the Project will have qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.09);
(f) institutions to be hired for contract research shall be
selected by the Project Director in consultation with
IDA (para. 5.10);
(g) GOS will credit the Project account every six months with
sufficient funds to meet expenditures expected to be made
directly by ARC in respect of the Project during the next
six months and required to carry out the approved work plan
(para. 6.05);
(h) a mid-term Project review will be carried out involving
three distinguished international scientists, USAID and IDA
to review the detailed research program proposals by the
Project for Years 4-6 and to review the plan of transferring
the research facilities from WSDC to ARC (para. 7.02);



- 43 -
(i) (i) ARC shall employ, not later than March 31, 1979,
executive architects with qualifications and experience,
and (ii) Government shall cause its Ministry of Public
Works to provide qualified personnel in adequate num-
bers to assist the executive architects in supervising
the construction of civil works (para. 7.07);
(j) Government will transfer to ARC the land and land rights
required for the research stations in the West; this
land will be selected in consultation with the executive
architects and will be suitable for the purposes of the
Project (para. 7.08);
(k) utilities such as water, roads and, where appropriate,
electricity will be provided to the construction site
boundaries at no extra cost to the Project (para. 7.08);
(1) Government will cause MAFNR to integrate fully all agri-
cultural and animal production research (para. 7.10);
(m)  procurement procedures as described in para. 7.13 will be
followed; and
(n) ARC shall maintain separate Project accounts and shall
(i) have such accounts audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and (ii) furnish IDA with certified
copies of the auditor's report not later than six months
after the closing of each financial year, of such scope
and in such detail, as IDA may reasonably request (para.
7.16).
9.03      Conditions of Credit effectiveness are that:
(a) the Project Director, Deputy Project Director and Senior
Research Adviser have been appointed (para. 5.07);
(b) ARC has completed a study comparing its salaries and
benefits with those provided by other comparable insti-
tutions such as the universities employing high calibre
staff, and has adopted incentives satisfactory to GOS
and IDA for its staff to be assigned to work on the
Project (para. 6.02);
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the USAID
Grant Agreement have been fulfilled (para. 6.05); and
(d)  ARC has deposited an amount of not less than ISd 200,000
to meet start-up expenditures (para. 6.05).
9.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Proj-
ect is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$15 million to the Government of the
Sudan.



_ANKC 1
MAD
I*                                                                          X
AGRICULTURAL REUNCH PROJNT
Present Structure of the International Agricultural Research Network
Date
Center                                     Location                            Research                            Coverage                         of
Initiation
IRRI
International Rice Research                Los Banos, Philippines          Rice under irrigation; multiple            Worldwide,  special                   1959
:nstitute)                                                                 cropping system; upland rice               emphasis in Asia
CIMMST                                           El Raten, Mexico                Wheat (also triticale, barley);               Worldwide                         1964
International Center for the                                               Maine
Izprove-ent of Maize and Wheat)
IITA                                             Cbadan, Nigeria                Farming systems; cereals (rice             Worldvide in lowland                  1965
(Internationml Institute of                                                 and nize as regional relay                 tropics, special
Tropical Agriculture)                                                      stations for IIRI and CIMYT);              emphasis in Africa
grain legume (cow peas, soybeans,
lima beans, pigeon peas); root
end tuber crops (cassava, sweet
potatoes, yam)
CIAT                                             Patnirs, Colombis               Beef; cassava; field beans; fans-         Worldwide in lowland                  1968
'International Center for                                                   ing systms; swine (minor); nmize           tropics, special
ropical Agriculture)                                                       and rice (regional relay stations          emphasis in Latin
to CIMMYT and IRRI)                       America
WARDA                                            Monrovia., Liberia              Regional cooperative effort in            West Africa                           1971
(West African Rice Levelopnent                                              adaptive rice research among 13
An-ociati-n)                                                               nations with IITA and IRRI
support
CIP                                              Line, Peru                     Potatoes (for both tropics and             Worldvide including                   1972
(Int-rcationnI Potato Center)                                               temperate regions)                         linkages with developed
countries
ICRISAT                                         Hyderabad, Indis                 Sorghum; pearl millet; pigeon             Worldwide, special                    1972
International Crops Research                                               peas; chick-peas; farming                  emphasis on dry semi-
inotitute for the Semi-                                                    systems; groundnuts                        arid tropics, nonirriga-
Arid Tropic-)                                                                                                         ted farming. Special
relay stations in Africa
under negotiation
TBPQR                                            FA0, Rome, Italy                Conservation of plant genetic                Worldwide                          1973
(Intrrnationil Board fr- Plant                                              material vith special reference
ene tio Rmourcen.                                                         to cereals
ILRAD                                           Nairobi, Kenya                  Trypanosomiasis, theileriasis                   Africa                           1974
(Tnternational Laboratory for                                               (mainly east coast fever)
Research on Adinal Disesoen)
-LCA                                             Addis Ababa, Ethiopia           Livestock produstion systems              Major ecolngic-l regions              1974
(International Livestock Center                                                                                        in tropical zones of
for Africa)                                                                                                           Africa
'CARDA                                          Lebanon                          Crop and mixed farming systems            Worldwide, emphasis on the            1976
(Tnt-rnstional Center for Agri-                                             research, with a focus on sheep,           semi-arid winter rainfall
cuIt-cal Rsea-rch in Dry Areas)                                            barley, wheat, and lentils                 cone
Source, Seminar Report of the Conference on Resource Allocation and Productivity in National and International Agricultural Research, 1975 and CGIAR 1976 Report
Ncvember 15, 1977



ANNEX 2
- 45 -                          Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Senior Staff
Staffing, Grades and Training for Senior Project Staff
Year 1/ and Grade 2/
1    2    3    4    5    6
1. ARC Headquarters - Khartoum
*Senior Research Advisor to DG        ES   ES   ES   ES   ES   ES
*Research Planning and Evaluation
Advisor                            ES   ES   ES   ES   ES   ES
*Project Architect                    ES   ES   ES   ES   ES   ES
*Project Liaison Officer              SS   SS   SS   SS   SS   SS
Accountant                            SC   SC   SC   SC   SC   SC
2. Nyala
(a) Director's Office
*Project Director 3/                  CS   CS   CS   CS   CS   CS
*Deputy Project Director 3/           ES   ES   ES   ES   ES   ES
-      ~~(June)
Station Superintendent                SC   SC   SC   SC   SC   SC
Accountant                            SC   SC   SC   SC   SC   SC
Communications Officer Pilot 3/    SC   SC   SC   SC   SC   SC
(Mar.)
(b) Water and Land Use Research
*Program Leader 3/                    ES   ES   ES   ES   ES   ES
(Oct.)
*Deputy Leader                        --SS4  SS   SS
Soil Physicist                        AS5  AS5  AS5  AS5  RS   RS
(Sept.)
Soil Chemist                          --   RS   RS   RS   RS   RS
(Oct.)
Agro-Climatologist                         AS7  AS   RS   RS   RS
(Sept.)
*Agro-Climatologist                       )ES   ES   ES   ES   --
WaterEngineer                         -- -- -- RS RS RS(Apr.)
Water Engineer                        R- -             S4  RS   RS



ANNEX 2
- 46 -                          Page 2
Year 1/ and Grade 2/
1    2    3    4    5 6
(c) Research Support Services
*Program Leader - Production
System 3/                       ES   ES   ES   ES   ES  ES
(Oct.)
*Sociologist                       --   ES   ES   ES   ES  ES
(Oct.)
Sociologist                        AS5  AS5  AS6  AS6  RS  RS
Economist                          --   AS7  AS7  RS   RS  RS
(Sept.)
Economist                          --   --   AS7  AS7  RS  RS
(Sept.)
Biometrician                       --   RS   RS   RS   RS  RS
Groundnut Breeder 8/               --   RS   RS   RS4  RS  RS
Groundnut Breeder 8/               --   --   --   RS4  RS  RS
(Oct.)
Research Liaison Officer           --   --   --   RS4  RS  RS
(Oct.)
(d) Training and Extension Unit (TEU) 9/
Training Officer                   --   --   --   --   SS  SS
Assistant Training Officer            --   --   --      --  RS
3.   El Fasher
*Sub-Program Leader 3/              SS   SS   SS   SS   SS  SS
(Oct.)
Camel Specialist                   --   RS   RS   RS   RS  RS
Sheep and Goat Specialist          --   RS   RS   RS4  RS  RS
Range Specialist                   AS5  AS5  AS5  AS5  RS  RS
(Sept.)
4.   Kadugli
(a) Crop Livestock System Cracking Clays
*Sub-Pvogram Leader
Cracking Clays                 SS   SS   SS    SS   SS  SS
Farm Management Economist         AS   AS5  AS5   AS5  RS  RS
(Sept.)
Farm Management Economist         --   ES   ES    ES   ES  ES
(Apr.)



ANNEX 2
4age 3
Year 1/ and Grade 2/
1    2    3    4    5   6
Agricultural Engineer                --   ES   ES   E'   ES  --
Agricultural Engineer                --   AS7  AS7  RS   RS  RS
Sorghum Breeder                      --   RA   RS4  RS   RS  RS
Livestock Specialist/                             4
Forage Agronomist                 --   --   RS   RS   RS  RS
(Oct.)
Research Liaison Officer             --   --   RS4  RS   RS  RS
(Oct.)
(b) Water and Land Use Research
Field Project Officer                --   --   RS4  RS   RS  RS
5. El Obeid
(a) Crop Livestock System Non-Cracking Clays
*Sub-Program Leader
Non-Cracking Clays 3/              SS   SS   SS   SS   SS  SS
(Oct.)
Gum Arabic Specialist                 AS5  AS5  AS5  AS5  RS  RS
(Sept.)
Gum Arabic Specialist                 --   RS   RS4  RS   RS  RS
Agricultural Engineer                 --   RS   RS   RS   RS  RS
(Oct.)
Farm Management Economist             --   AS7  AS7  RS   RS  RS
(Sept.)
Millet Breeder                        --   --   RS4  RS   RS  RS
(Oct.)
Livestock Specialist                  --        (OctRS   RS  RS
Kerkadeh Specialist                         RS4  RS   RS   RS  RS
Research Liaison Officer                  -       (Oct  RS   RS  RS
(b) Water and Land Use Research
Field Project Officer                 --   --   RS4  RS   RS  RS



-48 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 4
Notes:
1. It is assumed that the Project would begin on January 1, 1979. Therefore
Years 1 to 6 refer to 1979 to 1984 respectively.
2. The levels referred to are:
CS - Chief Scientist;
SS - Senior Scientist;
RS - Research Scientist;
AS - Assistant Scientist;
ES - Internationally Recruited Scientist;
SC - Special Category.
3. Initially these staff may be located in Khartoum.
4. Undertaking a non-degree specialization course (3 to 12 months' duration).
5. Undertaking Ph.D training.
6. Undertaking Ph.D training with two years of supervised field work in the
Western Region.
7. Undertaking M.Sc training.
8. Preferably posted to Ghazala Gawazat
9. Possibly located at Khartoum
* Key Project Staff
May 23, 1978



ANM 
- 49 _
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ProJect Cost Sumamary
(IS, '000)
Duties
Foreign       &
Exchange    Taxces
Years       1           2           3           4           7           6            Total        %        T
Capital Costs
Construction                             --         609.0    3,654.o        913.4       913. 4       _           6,o89.8       65         20
Professional Fees and Site
Supervision                      --          40.3       241.7        60.5        60.5        --            403.0       --         20
ARC Headquarters Building               650.0        --          --          --          --          --            650.0       --         20
Furniture and Equipment                  10.0        41.6       249.2        62.6        62.6        --            426.o       68         21
Vehicles, Farm Machinery                163.3       127.6        25.5        49.0        23.0        __            388.4       51         44
Aircraft                                127.1        --          --          --          --          --            127.1       91          9
Farm Development                         12.9        17.2        17.2        __          __          __             47.3       45         21
Small Purchases Fund                                 4o o0.0    410.0        40.o        40.o        400           200.0       10         --
Sub-total                    963.3       875.7     4,227.6     1,125.5     1,099.5        40.o        8,331.6       55         20
Operating Costs
Local Salaries                           53.9       227.7       295.4       368.3       436.2       440.4        1,821.9       --         10
Accommodation                            15.9        26.5        __          __          __          __             42.4       --         __
Office Expenditure                        6.6         9.0         9.0         9.0         9.0         9.0           51.6       60         25
Transport                                 9.2        20.4        25.6        27.9        29.1        29.1         1i1.3        67         17
Building Maintenance                     10.0        10.0        19.4        76.5        90.4       L14.3          320.6       55         15
Equipment Maintenance                     0.7         7.0        16.2        35.8        41.6        47.7          149.0       67         17
Aircraft Operation                       31.5        31.5        31.5        31.5        31.5        31.5          189.0       69          9
Farm Costs                                6.4        13.8        19.2        19.2        19.2        19.2           97.0       86         23
Sub-total                    134.2       345.9      416.3        568.2       657.0       691.2        2,812.8       22         12
Technical Assistance
Internationally Recruited Staff         180.7       260.8       286.6       286.6       286.6       172.1        1,473.4       86         --
Training                                 21.6        48.3        72.7        38.7         4.2        __            185.5       68         --
Conferences                              --          --          --           1.2         4.8         4.8           10.8      100         --
Short-Term Consultancies                 --          28.0        78.0        88.0        88.0        78.0          360.0      100        -_
Building Program                        1110         75.2       187.2        46.8        46.8        --            4oo.o      100         --
Sub-total                    246.3       412.3       624.5       461.3       430,4       254.9        2,429.7       88         --
Total Base Cost            1,343 8     1,633.9        5.268 4  2,1   0     2,186.9       986.1       13,7-1            
Physical Contingencies                        --          91.4       548.1       137.0       137.0 o      _             913.5       65         20
Expected Price Increase                      105.2       223.1    1,223.4        692.8       926.5       501.4        3,672.4       47         15
Total Project Cost         1,44 9.o    1,948.4                 2.984.8    3,20.1        14878 1 
MaY 18, 1978



- 50 -
ANINEX 3
Table 2
SSDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Capital Costs
(i,Sd '000)
-------------------------- Year----__________________                    Total        Foreign      Duties and
1           2            3            4            5             6                    Exchange       Taxes
PBildings
Site Works                                                  o 101.4     608.9        152.2        152.2        -       1,014.7         65            20
Central Facilities                              -           83.5        500.3        125.0         125.0       -          833.8        65            20
Field Laboratories                              -           23.7        142.3         35.6          35.6       -          237.2        65            20
Farm  Buildings                                 -           35.3        212.0         53.0         53.0        -          353.3        65            20
Houses                                          -          365.1      2,190.5        547.6        547.6        -       3,650.8         65            20
Sub-total                              -          609.0      3,654.0         913.4       913.4        -       6,089.8         65            20
Professional Fees and Site Supervision          -           40.3        241.7         60.5          60.5       -          403.0         -            20
Purchase of ARC Headquarters                 650.0           -            -            -            -         -          650.0          -            20
Total Buildings j/                  649.3                    3,895.7        97329         973.9       -        7,11428 o                     20
Furniture and Equipment
Furniture L/                                    5.0          6.1         36.3          9.3           9.3       -           66.o        20             8
Equipment - Laboratory 3/                       -           30.4        182.4         45.6         45.6       -           304.0        77            23
- Office                             5.0          5.1         30.5          7.7           7.7       -           56.o        77            23
- Radio                            24.2          11.0          2.2          -             -         -           37.4        71            20
"'ehicles  - obile ''nits (7\ 5/             39.0          52.0          -            -            -         -            91.0        62            31
- 4WD Transport (21T/              31.5         36.0          9.0          9.0           9.0       -           94.5        34            62
- Motor Cars (32)  /               56.o          16.0          8.0         4o.0           8.D      -           128.0        42            56
- Minibus (1) 8/                                                                         6.0       -             6.o        42            56
Farm       - Tractors (5) 9/                   11.4         11.4          5.7          _-                      -           28.5        90             0
- Equipment 12/                     1.2           1.2          o.6          --                     -             3.0        90             D
Aircraft                                     127.1           -            -            -             _         -          127.1        91             9
Total Furniture and Equipment        300.14       19           274.7        111.6          85.6       -          941.5        64             21
Farm Development
Fencing /                                       14.3                            --          -                               4'3         D             O
Land Clearing 13/                               8.6         17.2         17.2          -             -         -           43.0        50            23
Total Farm Development                12.9         17.2         17.2           -            -         _           47.3        45            21
Small Purchases Fund L3/                          -40.o                    4D.0         44.o0         40.D     40.          200.0        10o-
Total Base Cost                      963.3        875.7          2.6         2                       40.           1.6        2             20
Physical Contingencies 14/                                    91.14       548.1         137.0        137.0       -913.5                  65            20
1/ Details in Annex 2 of the implementation volume.
3/ See Annex 2,of the implementation volume, in line with previous research projects.
See Annex 2,of the implementation volume, in line with previous research projects.
J   Headquarters radi  LSd 8,8oo
Radios at Stations and in Field Trucks LSd 2,200 each
Radio in Aircraft - included in aircraft cost
Costs are based on an MF System
a Sd 13,000 each, including equipment.
0/ 4W0D LWB ehicles at LSd 4,500 each.
/  Motor Cars at LSd 4,000 each.
8/ Minibus at LSd 6,Oo each.
K/ Kadugli - 75 hp tractors
Available hours 30 days x 12    .  360 hours
Cultivates at 2.4 hours/feddan   .  150 feddans
Farm is 500 feddans and 4 tractors are needed
El Obeid - 1 tractor - 300 feddans
Cost LSd 5.700 each
10/  Equipment cost os 10,% of tractor cost:  wide range of equipment woald be held for trial purposes.
/   Fencing at iSd 4OO/km.
/   Land DeveloDment - chaining                                                 Hours/feddan       ;Sd/houlr     LSd/feddan
2 x 200 hp crawlers with anchor chain            0.2             27.50           5.50
140 hp crawler with NA rate                      4.o             11.50          46.oo
140 hp crawler with ripper                       1.0            11.50           11.50
120 hp grader - roads and drains                 0.2             14.00           2.80
LSd   65. 80
The equipment would be hired from contractors or from state corporations.
/   For purchases of experimental animals and other inputs.
114/  Physical Contingencies are  15% of construction costs.
May 18, 1978



ANNEX 3
Table 3
- 51 -
SUDAN
AGRICUJLTURAI RESEARCH PROJECT
Operating Cots
TSd '000)
Duties
Foreign       &
Exchange    Taxes
Years       1           2           3            4           5           6              Total       %          %
Local Salaries
Nyala                                    22.2        73.5         93.1       117.8       161.2        164.3          632.1       -11
Kadugli                                 1U.9         58.2         79.9       100.8       111.6        111.6          474.0       --           8
El Obeid                                  6.4        41.7         64.o        91.3        98.7         99.8          401.9                   9
El Fasher                                 3.1        34.4         38.5        38.5        44.8         44.8          204.1       __          10
Khartoum                                 10.3        19.9         19,9        19.9        19.9         19.9          1 a          -         10
Total Local Salaries          53.9       227.7       295.4        368.3       436.2       4Lo.4         1,821.9        _         10
Accommodation
Nyala                                     4.o         6.o         --          --          --           --             10.0       --         --
Kadugli                                   1.5         5.5         --          --          --           --              7.0       --          --
El Obeid                                  2.4         6.4         --          --          --           --              8.8       --         --
El Fasher                                 2.0         2.6         --          --          --          --               4.6       --
Khartoum                                  6.0         6.o o-                                           --             12.0       --
Total Accommodation           15.9        26.5         --          --                       _              42.4       --         -_
Office Expenditure
Nyala                                     2.0          3.0         3.o         3.0         3.0          3.0           17.0       60          25
Kadugli                                   1.0          1.5         1.5         1.5         1.5          1.5            8.5       60         25
El Obeid                                  1.0          1.5         1.5         1.5         1.5          1.5            8.5       60         25
El Fasher                                 o.6          1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0          1.0            5.6       60          25
Khartoum                                  2.0          2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0           12.0       60          25
Total Office Expenditure       6.6         9.0         9.0          9.0         9.0         9.0            51.6       60         25
Transport
Nyala                                     2.0         3.6          5.2         6.3         7.5          7.5           32.1       67         17
Kadugli                                   1.2         2.4          3.6         4.8         4.8          4.8           21.6       67         17
El Obeid                                  1.2         4.8          6.o         6.o         6.o          6.o           30.0       67         17
El Fasher                                 1.2         6.o          7.2         7.2         7.2          7.2           36.o       67         17
Khartoum                  3,6                                                  3.6         3.6          3.6           21.6       67         17
Total Transport                9.2        20.4        25.6         27.9        29.1        29.1           141.3       67         17
Building Maintenance
Nyala                                    --           --           3.5        25.0        30.0         45.o          103.5       55          15
Kadugli                                  __           --           2.5        17.8        21.6         25.4           67.3       55          15
El Obeid                                 __          __            2.2        15.1        18.4         21.6           57.3       55          15
El Fasher                                --           --           1.2         8.6        10.4         12.3           32.5       55          15
Khartoum                                 10.0        10.0         10.0        10.0        10.0         10.0           60.0       55          15
Total Building Maintenance    10.0        10.0         19.4        76.5        90.4        114.3          320.6       55         15
Equipment Maintenance
Nyala                                    --           5.0          9.0        15.0        17.0         20.0           66.o       67          17
Kadugli                                  __            0.4         1.3         8.2         9.8         11.4           31.1       67          17
El Obeid                                 o_ 0.4                    1.7         7.7         9.2         10.7           29.7       67          17
El Fasher                                --            0.5         3.5         4.2         4.9          4,9           18.0       67          17
Khartoum                                  007 0.7                  0.7         0.7          0.7         0.7            4.2       67          17
Total Equipment
Maintenance         0.7         7.0         16.2        35.8        41.6        47.7           149.0       67         17
Aircraft Operation                             31.5        31.5        31.5        31.5         31.5        31.5          189.0       69           9
Farm Costs
Kadugli                                   3.4          8.3        12.2        12.2        12.2         12.2           60.5       50          23
El Obeid                                  2.0          4.o         5.0         5.0         5.0          5.0           26.o       60          23
El Fasher                                 1.0          1.5         2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0           10.5       67          23
Total Farm Costs               6.4        13.8         19.2        19.2        19.2         19.2           97.0       86         23
Total Operating Costs        134.2                     16         568.2       657.         691.2        2,812.3       2     1     2
May 18, 1978



AM= 3
Table4
- 52-
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Technical Assistance
CLSd '000)
Foreign
----- - ---Year-___________                                 Exchange
1        2         3         4         5         6          Total            ,
Internationally Recruited Staff Costs
Land and Water "se                                               17.3      48.7      57.3     57.3      57.3      57.3         295.2           86
Arid and Semi-Arid Livestock                                      --        --        --        --        --        --           --            --
Integrated Livestock and Cropping                                20.1      68.8      86.o      86.o     86.o      57.4         404.3           86
Sub-Total                                       37.4    117.5    143.3    143.3    143.3    114.7            699.5            86
Headquarters - Nyala                                             28.7      28.7      28.7      28.7      28.7     28.7         172.2           86
ARC Support  (Khartoum)                                         114.6    114.6    114.6    114.6    114.6         28.7         601.7           86
Sub-Total                                      180.7    260.8    286.6    286.6    286.6    172,1          1,473.4            86
Training Expenses
Land and Water Use                                                7.1      12.5      12.5      12.5      --                    44.6            69
Arid and Semi Arid                                                6.9      16.o      12.4      12.5       -                     47.8           71
Integrated Livestock and Cropping                                 7.6      19.8      47.8     13.7       4.2       --           93.1           60
Sub-Total                                      21.6      48.3      72.7      38.7       4.2        -         185.5           68
Conferences                                                                                         1.2       4.8      4 8           108
Consultancies
Contract Research-Stations                                        --        --      50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0        200.0           100
Headquarters - Project Related                                    --        8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0          40.0          100
- Solar Energy                                      --        --       --       10.0      10.0       __          20.0           100
Project Evaluation Tinit                                          --       20.0     20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0        100.0           100
Sub-Total                                       --       28.o      78.0      88.o      88.o      78.0        360.0o         100
Building PrDgram
Physical Facilities Development                                  44.o      44.o       --        --       --         -          88,o           100
Internationally Recruited Firm - Overhead                         --      20.0    120.0       30.0      30.0       --         200.0          100
Development Plan Study                                            --        8.0      48.o     12.o      12.0       --          80.0           100
Procurement Assistance                                                      3.2     19.2       4.8       4.8       _           32.0          100
TOTAL COST - CONSTRUCTION                       44.0     75.2    187.2       46.8      46.8       --         40,0o          I
Total Technical Assistance Base Cost          246.3    412.3    624.5          .        4      29.7                          8
M4arch 6, 1978



- 53 -                             ANNEX 4
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
----------US-$000---------
IDA Fiscal Year                   at end of
and Quarter                      Quarter          Cumulative
1978/79    March 31, 1979                    300                300
June 30, 1979                    --                 300
1979/80    September 30, 1979                 50                350
December 31, 1979                 50                400
March 31, 1980                   100                500
June 30, 1980                    200                700
1980/81    September 30, 1980               400               1,100
December 31, 1980                700              1,800
March 31, 1981                   900              2,700
June 30, 1981                  1,500              4,200
1981/82    September 30, 1981             1,600               5,800
December 31, 1981              1,600              7,400
March 31, 1982                 1,300              8,700
June 30, 1982                  1,200              9,900
1982/83    September 30, 1982             1,200              11,100
December 31, 1982              1,000             12,100
March 31, 1983                   600             12,700
June 30, 1983                    400             13,100
1983/84    September 30, 1983               400              13,500
December 31, 1983                400             13,900
March 31, 1984                   400             14,300
June 30, 1984                    400             14,700
1984/85    September 30, 1984               200              14,900
December 31, 1984                100             15,000
May 25, 1978



- 54-                               ANNEX 5
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
(Implementation Volume)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
ANNEX 1:   STAFFING AND TRAINING
I.  Staff Recruitment Program ............................            3
II.  Draft Terms of Reference for 16 Key Project Staff                 7
Table 1:      ARC Senior Staff .........................         18
Table 2:      APRA Senior Staff ........................         19
Table 3:      ARC Staff Undergoing Training
in 1977 .20
Table 4:      Summary Staffing by Site and
Function .21
Table 5:      Staffing by Site, Program and
Function .24
Table 6:      Summary of Agricultural and
Staff Development Program .31
ANNEX 2:   PHYSICAL FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM .33
Appendix 1: Outline of Duties of the Executive
Architects .36
Table 1:      Program Headquarters at Nyala ............          37
Table 2:      Research Center at Kadugli ...............         40
Table 3:      Research Center at El Obeid ..............          43
Table 4:      Research Center at El Fasher .............         46
ANNEX 3:   DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Table 1:      Consolidated Cost Tables
Included in Main Report
(Annex 3, Tables 1 - 4)
Table 2:      Capital Costs
2.1 Nyala  . .48
2.2 Kadugli  . .49
2.3 El Obeid  . .50
2.4 El Fasher  . .51
2.5 Khartoum  . .52
Notes to Tables 2.1 to 2.5 .53



- 55 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 2
Table 3:      Operating Costs
3.1    Nyala ...................           54
3.1.1  Nyala - Local Salaries              55
3.2 Kadugli .56
3.3 El Obeid .57
3.4  El Fasher .58
3.5 Khartoum .59
Notes to Tables 3.1 to 3.5 .60
Table 4:      Unit Costs
4.1 Construction .61
4.2 Salaries .62
4.3 Aircraft .64
ANNEX 4:   FUNDING FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN SUDAN
Table 1:      ARC Summary of Budget -1977/78 ...........      66
Table 2:      APRA Summary of Budget 1977 /78 .67
ANNEX 5:  GOVERNMENT CASH-FLOW ............                                        68
ANNEX 6:   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Table 1:      Summary of Direct Inference
Commodity Studies   . .69
Table 2:      Summary of Implicit Technology
Generation Function Studies .        .          70



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Sub-sector
Al - SUDAN - Six-Year (1977-1983) Development Plan - Agriculture, January
1977 Draft.
(a) Agriculture
(b) Agricultural Research for Western Savannah
A2 - The SUDAN in Quest of a Surplus, Part I - Dreams and Realities by John
Waterbury, 1976, American University Field Staff, Inc.
A3 - SUDAN - Country and Intercountry Programming - 1972-1976, UNDP.
A4 - SUDAN - Agriculture Sector Survey - World Bank - 1978 - 3 Volumes.
A5 - Crop Production and Agronomy in the Sudan, by Dr. Dirk M. Leeuwirk
IBRD, 1976.
A6 - Animal Production Research Administration - Ministry of Agriculture,
Food and Natural Resources - Animal Resources in the Sudan.
A7 - Millet Research and Improvement in the Sudan, by Bhal Somaroo, Ford
Foundation, 1976.
A8 - Groundnut Production and Research in the Sudan, by Dr. D.E. McCloud;
Ford Foundation, 1976.
A9 - Sorghum Research in the Sudan, by Dr. Bhal H. Somaroo and Mr. Leland
R. House, Ford Foundation, 1976.
AIO - Food Legume Research in the Sudan, by Dr. Geoffrey Howtin; Ford Founda-
tion, 1976.
All - Sesame Research and Production in the Sudan, by Professor D.M. Yermanos,
Ford Foundation, 1976.
A12 - SDEC and Rehabilitation Programme
A13 - Faculty of Agriculture - University of Khartoum



- 57 -
ANNEX 6
A14 - Animal Production Research in the Sudan, Dr. E. Creswell, 1974.
A15 - Agricultural Extension as it Relates to Agricultural Research,
Dr. Shawki M. Barghouti, 1976.
A16 - Project for Consolidation of Agricultural Extension Services in the
Sudan.
A17 - Resources and Productivity in National Agricultural Research.
T.M. Arndt and V.W. Ruttan, 1975.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1 - SUDAN - Agricultural Research Project - Preparation Report, World Bank,
Eastern Africa Region, General Agriculture Division, Aay 31, 1977; one Volume.
B2 - Background Information on Western Sudan; Report to East Africa Division
of World Bank by E.D. Carter, The University of Adelaide, Waite Agricultural
Research Institute, November 1977.
B3 - The Present and Future Organization of the Extension Service in the
Sudan, by A.H. Crijns and L. Razoux Schultz, March 1976, Report on a Mission
to the Sudan from February 22 to March 4, 1976.
B4 - Agricultural Extension as it Relates to Agricultural Research, by
Dr. Shawki M. Barghouti; the Ford Foundation, Ammon, Jordan, April 1976.
B5 - Experiment Station Development in the Sudan, by Dr. Gordan W. McLean;
Ford Foundation, 1976.
B6 - Agricultural Research Project SUDAN, Preappraisal - Construction - Re-
port by D. Shoesmith, Architect/Planner, April 1977.
B7 - Exploratory Soil Survey of North and South Kordofan, by Rafael Pacheo
and Hashim Al Dawoud, Soil Survey Report No. 81, Soil Administration Wad
Medani; 1976.
B8 - Sudan Agricultural Research Capabilities - International Agricultural
Development Service, New York, November 1977.
B9 - Agricultural Research Capabilities and Scope in the Sudan, by Dr. Hussein
Edris, Khartoum, 1975.
B10 - List of Research Officers and Administrators, Agricultural Research Cor-
poration, October 1975.
Bll - Agricultural Research Corporation, Draft Law of 1976.



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
B12 - Livestock and Range Investigation, Ghazala Gawazat, 1975.
B13 - Agriculture Research Priorities, Dr. Hussein Idris, 1976.
B14 - Sudan Agricultural Research Review: July - August 1977, Terms of
Reference and Guidelines.
B15 - Studies and Training Courses valid on 9th September 1976.
C. Selected Working Papers, Tables and Maps
Cl - Rainfall Data and Maps.
C2 - Agricultural Research Corporation - Data about Budget etc.
C3 - Aircraft Related Data.
C4 - Yellow Cover Staff Appraisal Report.
C5 - Green Cover Staff Appraisal Report.
C6 - Short Investigation on Prefabricated Building System, 1978.



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND NATURAL RESOURCES
MINISTER
OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND
NATURAL RESOURCES
I                                 |~~~~~~~~~~~~
[ MINISTER OF STATE  |            |          ANIMAL
_ MAGRICULTER RA               GEZIRA      - _ _       PRODUCTION
RESEARCH AND SERVICES                                    CORPORATION
| MINISTER OF STATE  1         RAHAD        _.l l4    RURAL WATER
-   PLANNING AND    I I CORPORATION                  CORPORATION
l DEVELOPMENt                                  l   ;
AGRICULTURAL          f    MECHANIZED
_   MINISTER OF STATE  RESEARCH                FARMING
CORPORATION                  CORPORATION
LEGAL ADMINI-         |   AGRICULTURAL  LI        WESTERN SAVANNAH
STRATION  I       ~~PRODUCTIO N     4DEVELOP-
L    STRATIONT | CORPORATION       MENT CORPORATION
_                            l       LIVESTOCK, MEAT
SECURITY                                   L _    AND MARKETING
_    ADMINISTRATION                                   CORPORATION
UNDER SECRETARY           UNDER SECRETARY            UNDER SECRETARY           UNDER SECRETARY
FOR                 FOR AGRICULTURAL                 FOR                 FOR PLANNING AND
NATURAL RESOURCES              SERVICES      .       ANIMAL RESOURCES            ADMINISTRATION
CENTRAL VETERI-  l                 ADMI-
|1  FORESTRY  |  |1        CROP PROTECTION            NARY                   PLANNING ADMI-
LABORATR                   NISTRATION
I   I                         l                      l  l  |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL l
RANGE AND PASTURE           HORTICULTURE   | _          QUARANTINE                ENGINEERING
|     OLCNSERVATION|lllll
LAND USE AND              SOIL SURVEY               STOCK ROUTES                   FOOD
WATR POGRMMINGllllll                                                                          l
WILDLIFE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IANEAND
L GWILDLIE  |  |4      EXTENSION             ANIMAL PRODUCTION           ADMINISTRATION
p   SEED PROPAGATION  |   p  LIVESTOCK RESEARCH      PUBLIC RELATIONS
FIELD INSECTORATEANIMAL H EALTH
FIELD SERVICES           FOREIGN AFFAIRS
11 Khasm el Girba: Tokar; White Nile;                       EPIZOOTICS
Blue Nile Pump Schemes, etc.
DISEASE FREE
ZONE
World Bank- 18270






SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION 1
|AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CO  NI2                                                       l
DIRECTOR GENERAL
TECHNICAL                                                      DIRECTORS                                                ADMINISTRATION AND
COMMITTEE                                                      DIGENERAL                                                FINANCIAL COMMITTEE
RESEARCH SECTIONS                         RESEARCH STATIONS                               RESEARCH                                ADMINISTRATION
AND CENTERS                                                                            SERVICES                                 AND FINANCE
Agronomy   Crop Physiology                                                            Library   Documentation                     Finance   Accounts
Botany   Plant Pathology                                                              Publications                               Personnel
Cotton Breeding                                                                         I nformnation                             Stores
Entomology                                            SUB-STATIONS                    Training   Conferences                      Maintenance (Building)
Horticulture                                                                          Foreign Relations                           Public Relations-'
Plant Breeding                          Gezira        Guneid                          Agricultural Shows                            Social Services
Soil Science                            Hudeiba       Khashm El Girba                   Museums                                   General Administration
Statistics Agricultural                 Kenana        Meatug                          Equipment Maintenance                         (Field   Transport)
Economics                              Kadugh       Sennar
Forest Research3                        Yaubi         Snar
Range   Pasture3                        Yambio        Shambat
Fisheries  Marine Biology3                            Soba
Food Processing Center3                                  (El Obeid)
Wild Life Research Unit3                              Fisheie      a
Fi|sheries   Marline
Biology  (El
Shagra, Port
Sudan, Wadi Halfa)
Food Processing
Center (Khartoum)
Forestry  (Soba)
Range   Pasture3
(Ghazala Gawazatl
Wild Life3
(Khartoum)
1 The ARC is under the Ministry of Agriculture. Food and Natural Resources
2 Also referred to as "BOARD OF MANAGEMENT"
3 Transferred to the ARC in 1975
World Bank - 18269






SUDAN
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH PROJECT
PROPOSED STRUCTURE FOR THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD, AND NATURAL RESOURCES
I
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
Research ~    ~ .I~*ItgrtdAe
TECHNICALSOSW E                                DIRECTOR-                           ADMINISTRATIVE AND
CROP PRODUCTION HANIMAL PRODUCTION  ENGINEERIN GENERAL                               FINANCE COMMITTEE
DEPUTY DIRECTORS-GENERAL (3D
Research IJ    Ag      l               R , Pas,                    M     Intgre          Co  T
Support                                          Amnstrtv                   Deelopment
Food Crops         _     and Poultry   j     _      Engineering        _      and Fodder   |             Studies     l       I      Cne        j
2    Fiber Crops   |  _l  Animal Health  |          Production   l     j      Game and    l      2SSocial            l        |eAgricultural  |
*Serlvlilces   Systems    l        l    Wildlife                   Studies                   Product
|CroP Protection g       | Fisheries and |
I~ ~ ~ ~~~~Mrn Biolog i                         Planning and Evaluation Unit and possibly
Training and Extension Unit under the Project
||Plant Introduction |would support development of this section
and Special Crops                                 2a In close association or including the Project Support Unit
ns IWorld Bank-18379






SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION
r _- _   _    -- _-  _-- _  _-  _  _-     ___ _ __                       Ag,,culnural R,esarcfl CorportatlAo 
PRO. L  SUPPORT
PLANNING AND EVALUATION                     ,NIT                   EXTENSION           AGRICULTURALRESEARCH                                                            PROJECT ADVISORY
UNIT                          KHARTOUM                AND TRAINING          PROJECT HEADQUARTERS-                                                                COUNCIL
KHARTOUM                   (RESPONSIBLE TO PROJECT            UNIT                      NYALA                                                                Ch,-an OG Of ARC
DIRECTOR-NYALA)                                                                                                                   -      P,oSO    -,rec
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. b-|
MAFNR  RESOURCES,
UN IVERSITY OF KHARTOUM
INTERNATIONAL CENTERS
WESTERN SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
PROVINCIAL COMMISSIONERS
SOCIO-ECONOMIC                                                     PRODUCTION SYSTESLNBWAR
SEP P SRT                                                       RESEARCH PROGRAMPMNAEMN
ARID                                                           STABILIZED uANDS CheACKINrn                   CLAYSh                 NON-CRACKING CLAYS A IODM  STBLIEpSNSACTIVII ES AT
ARID                   ~~~~~SEMI-ARID                     INTEGRATED                       CRCIGCASNNCAKN   LY                                                        El PB,
LIVESTOCK SYSTEM                  LIVESTOCK SYSTEM                  LIVESTOCKICROPPING               INTEGRATED) LIVESTOCE,              INTEGRATED LIVESOCK/                       El ObRid
El PaAOr  ohs... GB.,.o,l                    SYSTEM                       ~~~~~~~~CRtOPPING SYSTEM            CROPPING SYSTEMK.g
Gh..i. G.-..,  ~          GbaSYSTEM5                            KdHogl,                             El Ob.id                        EOI  ...
lj Al P-1o ARC HeOHI--s  Wad Mao-,   - mo.  Khar-om - b.ing ftafi-Ve uod.rtN h. P,ct
WOOSd BaRk - 1B288
J F--Wc  Odor th,, Wester S-hano Pro.lecad the Ab,. SEeb, '0DM Proj1-   S-a,,f Daf.r






SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Crops Research to be Conducted at the Proposed
ARC Research Stations
a     E 0
[ALLiS;f~~-cG)- ,  2 cl  .
E~~~~~~~l C                                                 O 
0 ~~~  E ~~ ~~ ~                t;         _   co  -
W   -            CE     M:                       M 1 W t       0 0u
0       (M  .  Cl~          ~  U
Station       Is                             .L  2            a.  0-      0  0
Wad Medani    _ *         ***    _ *                         _ _
Sennar                    * _
New Halfa            *    *   -                  *
Guneid*
Kenana*
Kosti
Rahad         _-
Hudeiba       *                             *     _
Shendi                                    **
Dongola               *                   **     *_*                     *
Aroma         _           *              *            *                  *
Gedaref                   *      *                           * _
Damazin       *           *  _            *  *   _           * _             *  *
Gawazat1i     _   *   _      *
Nyalal'        **             **
El Fasher1/       *
El Obeid!-/       *           *                  *                           _  _  _
KadugliV      _        _                  * _                           _            _
Yambio &Others*                -      -       -      -       - -* -
inYSout           * h*  *                    *  *  *   *         _  *
Um Dom                *                  * _  _
Soba          _
1j Research Stations in the Area of the Agricultural Research Project
2/ National Coordination by a Research Station situated within the Project Area
World Bank - 18266






SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978             1979              1980             1981              1982              1983             1984
Project Year 1   Project Year 2   Project Year 3    Project Year 4    Project Year 5    Project Year 6
X7/              X/                  /                 /7'.777/
ii/              '/7 .7                             7.///             '//.              7//              >/i
777              '77'              /7,              7/7              '77.               77/              j/7
Recruitment                                        /i/              '77               /7,              /7/                //               /77              //
Senior Management                                                ' ii                 /             i/i               '/i,              / iij
Key Staff                                       i/i                         _                       /,i               '//.                               /
Research and Support Staff                      ' //.                                 ' /                             "//               'ii 
OverseasTraining                                /i/                S                                                                    "'//
Project Management                                  //              '/.,              77,                                'ii               /7,              7/
Renting of Khartoum Office                      //               t //.             /7,              /                                   7/i              /7/
Transfer ARC H(l to Khartoum                    7//       -/,                                        7//               //7                               //7
Establishment of                                // ii                                 ,                / i                                               /i/
- Project Support Unit                             7              //               77                77/               i/                                i/i
- Planning and Evaluation Unit                  /_/   //7                          /7               7                                   7                777
- Training and Extension Unit                   i/                / i/,                              / /                                                   /
Annual Budget                                                    '/7,               /,               /7                                 /7,                /
StartOperationNyala                             ///              '         //        /               /7                /i               7/,              /ii
Start Operation Kadugli i'i                                       /7        _      >//               /7                                 /7/              /7i
Start Operation El Obeid                        /7/                /,           _/                   /7 iii                            /i 
Start Operation El Fashes                       iii              'ii             7/,,                //                 ///                              ///
Mid-Term Project Review                         /  i'//                                              /                   i/i /                           /ii
Transfer of Research of Ghazala Gawazat         '""               '/" i/, X                          i                                    ii
Completion Project Reveiw                       /7/               i/                /i               "                                  """
Building Construction                               //              '/.               /                 /i/                                77/             7ii
Appointment Executive Architects                /7/       _       //               /7,               77/              '/7               //               777
Site Surveys-Development Plan                   //                                  7/               /  i/7                             ii'              iii
Preparation                                   '"               // .                                ""/i                /               ""i
Bidding Documents                               /7J                                /7,               /7               '/                /77
Bidding and Award                              ,,,./. /i,-                                          77/                                 /7               //
Construction - Nyala                             //                                                -                                    /7/ ,_i
Construction - Kadugli                          ii/                         //                       ...              .-                 /7               //
Construction - El Obeid> 7                                 /                       /7/              a                a                  7""
Construction - El Fashes                        /7///7//                                                               i'               /7s              /7/
Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment              / //7,                             7/                 /                //.              // 
Preparation of Bidding Documents                ,-.                                 /7              7/                 i/               //                 /
BiddingandAward                                 /7/                                   / i7/                            /i               7/7              //
Delivery                                        ,,,                                          / _7/                                               /7/
Research Program -Water and Land Use              /" i               i/"                                                 ""'
Planning                                        /7/                                  7                                 7/               /7               //
Implementation                                                   / / /                              S                S//
Production Systems                                 /7/                                /7,              /7/                                 '//
Planning                                                                    _       /// in //                         '                    /             /i7
Implementation                                 //
/7/              ////               /7/,/           /7/               '//'          '/   W/       /B       /
World Bank -16754






AIGRICULWMJAL ESEARCRP.QEC
-       Ai- -BeiAd                 %
~R4SIP    T~~MA~1CBY~WN DQEA N IEtE MARRA A EA
MAl4   P I  OWN ci:   J YS 
NB. Non-Cm                 d ~ n  
(as Shown KideOb~o4 pd ~ Aktrnn  1              h*~ k        -n
2~~~~~~~~~~~ 8~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 
4                                                                RED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
*    -~~~~~~~~~~~ 
g .  s;   ,    , b;   0   C r jr 9  . .) 0 . D r  3   |. .   f    ;  a  ;  z q  . r  ,   ;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~x,  
'~Karin,.
.4
F                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RTOU~4P 
Omr  r-  HARTOUAK                       -  (
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
N                                                  R
.zee J   "\,G                    K\ H        ->   I            JUNG        ..'
NycN
RRJ3       L   A' 'N    r<;' 
A  ~~~A
, A       '                              L  IN RELAIN TO R  STE
G H A Z A ~     ~      1111 O  SStI
z ',rl-s trViJ'   t  mS S- re                                          E  J   'i i HE             \                       aA        <
{wzt ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - No-CoIn Clot's-
Xj":  ri u~    C                     G orA                                                                    d 3d I
0    030 40 0          N
'  P  S  z  *c esl 3,,;,t ,, \~~~~o                      0     20  )30                    *h, Ge beog lto o
E LODE IDAR EA  S NGr EDso - .RI  S  NG)tem






SUDAN       ?2
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CLIMATE                                                      k
Research Area Bonndory                                                     r
-100_ Averoge Annuol Rainfoll, 1931-190 in mm
-1000- AverageAnnual Evaporotion Poetenial, 1930- 1960 in m,                      i1K
Ravilways
Rimers 
- Provrne&uoersdmni            ARAB ;REPUBLIC  Of  EGfVT                                  j
w -ne'"tiorhw  sound4fires,          ::!:r,                                           
j-alfo      _
-0 - ;-~~~~~~~~~~ 0r   .;.....--                                                                                             -A0i.....   R  T  H  A'R N  Wlt'  fDt   \:  .
25
if              PAT~~~~~~~~~~~
0          ;               <Q(J*TaZIA  I  /
Jub
!   .  t   ,   :  .   .   \                      --,     
d  4 UAtRA 1'   2    EQ A O /         6-s00    
0 0 0 >0 -;          !       : REPUtLIC; OF- ZAIRE#:   #:: jfiveA ;0;  ::rf  I'
Th ~n~' ,5, v Sr ,i v, vgi                           UGANDAJ           /k=   ;   ,s
b'Zp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
_______  5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 35.






--t'. 9Ej  -22iLf  -; . . ft,] K  '  ';.    :; l;Q;: 0.:   j                                                                          SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
i9;-: 2_  .   . . i :9i:;   i :ECOLOGICAL ZONES
{   SUDA:            '    S ~L T B YA i;
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 1-A Is -I.I                                                                                    '  F.E1D !;  i r
LFBYA   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A T
F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ --   CF
F > Z , , , > t r [ K-                                                                                                                           A AMS DCC AALCCL C BASEMENT     AM F,SA.ACOT AR 4AM.' CLANS ACM  C
o   \  r  q  A   >  +  >   S  E  |    |                                      |                          L         ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~     ~ ~  ~~~ ~~~~Sr T  MLS   SCCMFOFK  MSTFOA MC ON RED  CCVAICCL  AC
C'  I                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.RIILCAM
ASltA ll\ eRf ' 2  1_ '" A                          I                                                              .                                       .N  A STO M MCE CMCCMCCM.'L
V                                                                                                                                                           SACMACF51          r      ozE 9EM   HACT TFMTWL EISSCNCCC SAEI    AD F50
-F--E7 I                                                                                                                   .u N              RE       * f "' M   t/SW        MC  MN   MC CCAA   /FAI    1tM CIJAVIAMS  I   AEYCATSIALMCT   COF  LLMI.
*- C >                 r                                                                               wIlE                                    M   C C . r   C E C C   A - -JC-F CE
F EAA    C,                  ,                                                                                                               1C.CMZIAL          AtsvITDVFSTRLIT
MMAMtSMIME E E   C,                      F          r                                                                                                    ___ST'DGas    daAis  H-NLvE    MvTEArO   C RO S IES TA M
'F-'   ~~~~~  ,~~A&  ~~~~-  F-MI                    T'F-F                 I                                                                       'EAATMTMF-ACCNFAAAEMCCLCM.CA~~~~~-IAIII L.IIIL   I   I 
".,-,                                                    ; AC  N i           ,2 /                                                                                                                                        X2 v$
AC1TM P ,I R-EM                                                                                                                                                       ,
_ , _ .~~~~~7                                                                        I                          _ A    S   A    M     MA I_ IA.
fCc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/                    I~~~~~~~~~~~II    .l        E
A F IZ I CA N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
km P't R E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






23             ~~~SUDAN 
AGRtCULTURAtL RESEAM  PROJECT    F
CROP5AND AGRgICULTURAL RIN
u _5or Arrea Ludr i-                                                  r
ad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     
>        Semnisd          ARA$ ,i RkIUIC; OF EPT           ' p  E
;-0 - .    1           jlf                                 '->HoVo u
oer ' i rC C   m  -zr Ci nr   3  rN  0    R    T   H    f   R   N               R
''ii- r j " 0_. 1 J }  1    S,                       i  f  L          j S  C  A  P-t Sudan
X ~~~ I^'5  '~   ,                                              V4                           C ''S:
Kciri.~
t-A   ~aS N 4                        N O  R T H f R N   r       ,    A                1 rJjrg;; ti 
N   R                                                                t -   oi       4 E R IV
TC"'2 "                                                            N :                     C _F
ne       '  0';'    ><                               ,00_-10@
z<   3 MX ed$. e   =    sooo t  1 g _ < <~~~~~~C.                     4
El F-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                               sa~
UN R       K 6  RD O F A N/k>/~ 4
DI,-RNF         -                      .         Duerre a           w Cedar e<
M   KosA I(BL\E                                                         7-. 
2,0000
ALP  -:C                                          ,  QO       ~149
0/gAZA 1 ~~~  3K  ~~    AVERAGE PRODUCTION  197-1975,-1976
\~~~~A~~~O'\    rj\  NF A  A-3-000.t,. R..,-SW






SUDAN                                                                                                         2
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
NOMADIC MOVEMENT
Researcth Area faun-dary 
HAMAR Comet Owning Tribes-
Rainy Sea1son
Dry (Caal thein tHot; benson,                                                  .  'iI
HlijpR Cattle, Owwni Trioes                                                     j.
Rainy Season  -        ~~~AiRA~&   REPUBiJC. Of  E GYPT        Nt 
Dry Scaoonf                     - 
Sei Amer (Deci-Eeb)
ZO4GHAWA Tribes winc  Own BOWR'7 Wa d  'K
Exitloe g.RastD 
-   -W  =es xdri   -                                                          2I'
5 5 A         p3iort Sudan
Kar   3-" 
7,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                    K~~~~~~ ~Atbi;x
I.   .                              C.
I       77  ~~~~  .N,~7                                          i
A~~~~~~~~~                                i'N E wadvK  sa
7'j'A1   K  6  _R  D  0  E  A  N   EA   Meda)              " 
Ger,inaf                                                                      "L                                 6 e    .3-
El F./                            l oe9 eN'7
'N   ~~~~~~ ~ Dubeibjpf-
o 'g~~~~~~ 
N"  /                         N~~~~~~
'  N.' i~~~~~~~  '~~~~~'3  ~~~~  P                   .. ~~~~ RoseiresfO
.4   DARELI H FR                       KORKaOEAN                                       7
NA'           !j"1i7              '7              -'  'N.~~~~~~~~~K 
-'                     \     ii n'wAt             I~~~~~~~~~~~ R  9  /BRFRA
AX  ~    ~'"'    "'7'--  Molok_          4 q                 0.5
7'A 
NI              2)>        '\.<-=<tr---'~~~~~~~~                              mirTh5 
>NA P'OHAE AL 
Wat     LH E }IRATK
EMPt-RE                     K                          
SNV
-~~~  N'-            . ~~~~~WELS T E RN                N
K4                                                                     h..A"RAEQA5TERNIA
7/'-I                   \.                          I            EOL/A~~~~~~~~~~ e O/
REPUBLIC   OF  K                           A                II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11   _ 
/                                     11 A  T7tr'KAAi
v    x,~~~~~~~~~~~






;I          0   -        T (   j  -  . 77 7    35
29:-                         SUDi k  AN  H        .a- -N0t;t  000-t-  t        ;ir;  a00      2                                                ;
AGRIcUTURAl.Rt$EARC ~`PROJECT
tOCAT4ON OFVSATIONS  I~m.
NAINLRESgRH TION.NETWORk                                                       A                                          N
A   ~puerNttYGJeree1 cod,                                                  A                                            0
r-ttUtj E 0< Sc-1;n; ]si; g                                                                t:s*c52
s             qflPmi OtIxc3
A_-,                    r                                                        X g ,,, ;; 0  ,   _  R E .  .  I  K' b  T  H  R  A/
4 .,,                                                                                         'Njj P b .c k g ta e' >'  A  '-    Su,"  n
Ad4         '         d :                      '                                                K_    t 
1~~~~~~4'-4                                                                              -                                                  2   0 -, ,  '     ;XX
4                                                          -~~~~~~~~~~K
A~~~~                                    ~~                       ~E
k    \KH,F1U
i    9    O.  z                6P    r n     O  -7fbt  .      Do:egolo              <N          \ ue     ;      
N =  R      T  H              N .   _
N    0   R   T  H   F  R   A/   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'d    c)~                                       -
j4 /~~~~~~~~~04,    2                                                   /~~     0F    N w   NMm a.  L "'N -r 
'14.  -                              4                                                2  -r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lHu.4
El Obe'd9,,                                      1 d
iahngeiO 0 Lel ~~~~~~~~~~l 7rc-K so4I
9...~gNOR                                                   HER                 soKasoRA
GhARl GaR                          9DOANdNa{' 
0  LI  T   H    F  R   A/ ~~~~~13.bEl  ut :N~KGedareh
44  Gene no     0                 )                                               -        '               A~~~~-~~K-'2&'47 F   A-A
4            Jebel~~ El bei                                                             rn          od
4    ~~~~yI04               < i~                 '
5  0  1/  F ~ H E  R  NA 70449 ~                 o~I
Lot                 -'      n  ry           Mlaol/    
'..  '4  4   4  
--'r,  AweiI    WU-' A                              '4 0 4O I
'-N  44~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~K          
-  )     Holimo(Wou) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  'GA4)
-                          <N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\






BRD 1,3.S4(
SUDAN                                j4t
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
0:
PROJECT                                                                                                           -R7T- - -
McanTransportation Network
R     E      D
S     E      A
-20,                                                                                                 N    0    R   T   H   E   R    N                                                                 2c,
Ptwed Ragd.
%,ed Roods Una., Cqpstvqiop
Rods grid Tracks, All Seowt
A
R.ods ond Tracks, Dry Saaw
........... Rlldl 861 5t"ld
ir,pro,*d to Enoneved
Gm,e St-dotd                   c    ti  A Dl                                                                                     E
N    I
Roilways
pipiliaes
R,ev aem
S-ps                                                                              N    0    R    T    H    E    R    N   Kha,f
Not l copiwl                           N   0   R   T    H   E    R    N          K    0    R    D    0    F    A    N
P-1,,ciol capadf.
T-,t td Vitt-ges                             D A              U    R                           S'd                                              K A  S
lntematomi aur,,Jarm
E
E N.6                                   HIT           B       u
ILE
N
0    u                    N,, -1,
s  0   u         H  'E-,R                            Kad,g],
D A          F U  R                          0  R                       N
N  I LE
U  P P                                                 E   T    H    I  0    P    I  A
B A  H  R        L
200    300     460                                       A  L
K. E.0,                                              RR---
E L
T   R                                               E YR A T\                  N    G    L   E   I
C  E: N
at                                 A  F R  I C A N                               -4
E  AA     t RE
W  E  S T E R                               E  A  S gT  E  R  N
D  R    I A
Z
AF RI C A/
K     E      N      Y     A



