CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 834 SU
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
Dated July 27, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 834 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ARC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS ARC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, through the
Project Center at Nyala, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practires.
Section 2.02. In order to assist ARC in the preparation of
the plans, specifications and bidding documents for, and in
supervising the construction of, all civil works under Part A of


﻿-2-
the Project, ARC shall employ, not later than March 31, 1979,
executive architects with adequate qualifications and experience;
the Project architect/planner, to be employed under Section
2.03 of this Agreement, shall have the overall responsibility of
supervising such works with the assistance of MPW as provided in
Section 3.03 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. In order to carry out its activities under the
Project, ARC shall employ the scientists, senior staff and consul-
tant specified in Annexes A and B to Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement. Persons so employed shall have qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Association and shall, except for
the consultants, each be employed for a period of not less than
two years except for the persons to be employed as Project direc-
tor, deputy Project director, senior research adviser and produc-
tion systems program leader who shall each be employed for a
period of not less than five years.
Section 2.04. (a) The Director General of ARC shall have,
subject to the statutory limitation on his authority under ARC's
Establishment Act, the overall responsibility for the implementa-
tion and supervision of all research activities under the Project.
In particular, the Director General shall: (i) nominate to MAFNR
the person to be appointed as Project Director; (ii) approve the
annual work plan; and (iii) approve the system for Project moni-
toring and evaluation.
(b) The Director General of ARC shall delegate to the
Project director, to be stationed at the Project Center at Nyala,
all powers necessary for the carrying out of day-to-day management
of the Project including, after the transfer provided for in
Section 3.02 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement, those to be
carried out at Ghazala Gawazat under the previous Development
Credit Agreement. The Project director shall, in particular, be
authorized: (i) to assign the scientific and administrative staff
under the Project; (ii) direct and operate the research stations
under the Project; (iii) coordinate the activities of the research
units to be established under Section 2.07 of this Agreement; and
(iv) make expenditures and authorize expenditures under, and
otherwise control, the budget for the Project.
Section 2.05. ARC shall, until the completion of the Project,
prepare and submit to the Association for its review and comments,
ARC's proposed Project work program and investment and operating
budget for its next following fiscal year at least three months


﻿-3-
prior to the start of such year, and shall make such modifications
in said program as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.06. ARC shall:
(a) establish in its name, an account in a commercial bank
to be used for the sole purpose of making payments of expenditures
for goods and services required for the Project;
(b) thereafter deposit into said account, not later than the
first week of each six-month period, such amounts as shall be
required to maintain said account at a level which will be suffi-
cient to meet expenditures expected to be made directly by ARC
in respect of the Project during the next six months, as such
expenditures are estimated on the basis of the budget referred to
in Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and
(c) maintain records adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the
operations and financial condition of said account.
Section 2.07. In order to strengthen its central research
capacities, ARC shall establish, with such composition as shall be
satisfactory to the Association, the following units:
(a) A project support unit at Khartoum, to be established
during the first year of Project implementation. Said unit shall:
(i) advise ARC's Director General and Agricultural Research
Council on research policies and programs; (ii) provide technical
and administrative assistance to the research stations established
and operating under the Project; and (iii) maintain contacts with
the concerned governmental and academic agencies for purposes
related to the execution of the research programs under the
Project.
(b) A planning and evaluation unit at Khartoum, to be
established during the first year of Project implementation. Said
unit shall: (i) develop a uniform system for the planning, imple-
mentation and evaluation of research programs for ARC; (ii)
develop and operate a Project monitoring and evaluation system;
(iii) compile under the guidance of the Project director and the
Project advisory council, referred to in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, and in cooperation with the research staff concerned
the detailed research plan during the third year of Project
implementation; (iv) arrange for the functioning of the Committee


﻿-4-
referred to in Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement;
and (v) carry out an annual internal review of all ARC's research
programs.
(c) An in-service training and extension unit at the Project
Center, to be established during the fifth year of Project imple-
mentation. Said unit shall: (i) arrange in-service training
courses and studies for the scientists and technicians of ARC; and
(ii) prepare, in cooperation with the research liaison officers
referred to in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the simplified
scientific pamphlets to be disseminated through ARC's extension
staff to the local farmers.
Section 2.08. ARC shall implement the research programs pro-
vided under Part B of the Project at the places and through the
research staff specified in Annex C to Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, as such Annex may be amended from time to
time by the agreement of the Borrower, the Association and ARC.
Section 2.09. ARC shall establish, during the first year of
Project implementation, a Project advisory council to be chaired
by ARC's Director General and composed of representatives from:
(i) the concerned departments of MAFNR; (ii) WSDC; (iii) the
University of Khartoum; (iv) the relevant international agricul-
tural research centers whose activities are coordinated through
the Consultative Group for Internaritional Agricultural Research;
(v) the provincial authorities at the governorate level; and (vi)
such other public or private agencies as ARC's Director General
shall decide. Such Council shall advise ARC's management in the
identification of research problems and priorities, the planning
of research programs, the utilization of national research facili-
ties and the dissemination of improved technology to local com-
munities.
Section 2.10. The Project director shall: (i) assign to
the research liaison officers, to be stationed at the research
stations to be established under the Project, the responsibility
of adapting the technology emerging from the research programs
under the Project to the local conditions; and (ii) provide
such officers with all assistance required for translating such
technology into practical measures comprehensible to the concerned
farming communities.
Section 2.11. In order to assist ARC, and in particular the
Project evaluation unit to be established under Section 2.07 (b)


﻿-5-
of this Agreement, in the preparation of the research plan, ARC
shall employ consultants with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.12. The selection of foreign research institutes
for purposes of Part A.4 of the Project shall be made by the
Project director in consultation with the Association.
Section 2.13. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.14. (a) ARC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ARC to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.
Section 2.15. (a) ARC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) ARC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where


﻿-6-
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) ARC shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ARC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.16. (a) ARC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) ARC shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by ARC of its obligations under
this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and ARC, ARC shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Association and ARC of their respective obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC
Section 3.01. ARC shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. ARC shall provide salaries and other benefits
adequate to attract and retain qualified and experienced staff to
work on the Project.


﻿-7-
*   ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) To the extent that any withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Credit are made on the basis of certificates
of expenditure, ARC shall retain, or cause to be retained, until
one year after the Closing Date, the underlying documentation on
which such certificates were based (bills, receipts, invoices or
other such documents) and shall make such documentation available
to the Association for its inspection.
(b) ARC shall maintain separate accounts for its activities
under the Project and shall: (i) have such accounts and the
documentation referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested including said auditor's opinion
as to whether the amounts claimed under certificates of expendi-
ture have been spent for the purposes indi'-ated; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning such accounts
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:


﻿-8-
(1) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify ARC
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request'shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For ARC:
Agricultural Research Corporation
c/o Ministry of Agriculture, Food
and Natural Resources
P.O. Box 285
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
ZIRAA FOR ARC
Khartoum
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ARC may be taken or executed by ARC's
Director General or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and ARC shall furnish to the Associa,x.ion
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
By /s/ Osman Hashim Abdel-Salam
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for the the carrying
out of civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of more than
$75,000, shall be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ARC shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange For the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. ARC shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for the carrying out
of civil works, estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$10,000 but not more than the equivalent of $75,000, shall be
awarded under local competitive bidding pursuant to the applicable
procedures of ARC acceptable to the Association.
4.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for the carrying out
of civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$10,000, may be awarded pursuant to the applicable procedures of
ARC.
5.   Bidders for civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $100,000, shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.


﻿- 11 -
6.   All civil works for the Project shall, if possible, be con-
structed pursuant to a single contract, so as to attract the
widest possible competition. Bidders for civil works contracts
shall be required to state separately in their bids the local
currency costs and foreign exchange costs included in their bids,
and the contract concluded shall state separately the amounts to
be paid in local currency and in foreign currency or how the
amounts to be paid in local currency and foreign currency are to
be determined. The bids shall, however, be evaluated in accordance
with the Guidelines.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification:
ARC shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reas-iably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by ARC to the Asso-
ciation for its comments before the applicants are notified of
ARC's decision, and ARC shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the purchase of goods or
for the carrying out of civil works estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of more than $75,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, ARC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 12 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ARC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ARC and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, ARC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ARC and state the
reasons for such determination.


