CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 834 SU
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 27, 1978


﻿CRE.r NUMBER 834 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1978, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) a grant (hereinafter
called the USAID Grant) in the amount of about twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the USAID; and
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural
Research Corporation of the Borrower (hereinafter called ARC)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to ARC the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and ARC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the saize force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ARC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "MAFNR" means the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Natural Resources of the Borrower;
(c) "WSDC" means the Western Savannah Development Corpora-
tion of the Borrower, a body corporate established under the
Borrower's Laws;
(d) "Previous Development Credit Agreement" means the
Development Credit Agreement concluded between the Borrower and
the Association on June 24, 1977, for the Savannah Development
Project;
(e) "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Bor-
rower;
(f) "Project Center" means the center, to be established at
Nyala under Part A.1 of the Project, to operate as ARC's regional
and Project headquarters; and
(g) "Sudanese Pounds" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-3-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Lhe Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1988, and ending
March 15, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Director General of ARC or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing are designated
as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE ITI
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause ARC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit,
together with the proceeds of the USAID Grant and the funds
provided by the Borrower for the execution of the Project, avail-
able to ARC on a grant basis.
(c) In order to enable ARC to operate effectively and to
carry out its obligations under the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i) promptly deposit in the Project account, to be established by
ARC pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, an amount
of not less than 200,000 Sudanese Pounds; and (ii) provide ARC
with funds sufficient to maintain said account at the level
referred to under Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. In recognition of ARC's general responsibility
for agricultural research in Sudan, the Borrower shall: (a) cause
WSDC to transfer to ARC all of WSDC's research facilities in west
Sudan, including those provided under the Previous Development
Credit Agreement, in accordance with a schedule to be prepared by
the Borrower and reviewed as provided in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement and shall, until the completion of such transfer, ensure
effective technical cooperation between ARC and WSDC; (b) ensure
that the Saudi Fund, the Co-Financier in the Previous Development
Credit Agreement, and all other external financiers assisting in
WSDC's research programs in west Sudan, will be given a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the measures proposed for effecting such
transfer; and (c) cause MAFNR to integrate fully all agricultural
and animal production research.
Section 3.03. (a) the Borrower shall take all action neces-
sary for the transfer to ARC of all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the establishment and


﻿-5-
proper operation of the research center and stations specified
under Part A.1 (a) and (b) of the Project. Such land shall be
selected in consultation with the executive architects referred
to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement and shall be suitable
for such facilities.
(b)   the Borrower shall cause its ministries, agencies or
departments in charge of public utilities to extend, when needed
for the operation of the Project facilities and to the extent
practicable, electrical, water and telephone services to ARC's
research stations and other sites of Project operation.
(c) the Borrower shall cause MPW to provide qualified
personnel in numbers adequate to assist the executive architects,
referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement in super-
vising the construction of civil works under the Project.
Section 3.04. Upon the preparation of the detailed research
plan pursuant to Section 2.07 (b) (iii) of the Project Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause MAFNR to form a committee composed of
three internationally reputed scientists, selected in consultation
with the Association, and representatives from the Association and
the USAID. Such committee shall review said plan, together with
the recommended procedures and schedule for the transfer of
research activities in west Sudan from WSDC to ARC pursuant to
Section 3.02 of this Agreement. Such schedule shall provide
for the completion of this transfer not later than the fifth
anniversary of the Effective Date.
Section 3.05. During the preparation of the detailed research
plan referred to under Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall make a study on possible means of financing future
agricultural research from sources other than budgetary alloca-
tion. Such study shall investigate, inter alia: (i) possible
financial contributions to .gricultural research by corporations
and farmers benefitting from the higher agricultural productivity
brought through research; and (ii) possible means for including
such assistance in the prices of, or fees or taxes on, agricul-
tural services and goods.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-6-
(a) ARC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of ARC under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ARC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower's Act No. 44 of the year 1977 establishing
ARC, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
ability of ARC to carry out the covenants, agreements and obliga-
tions set forth in the Project Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
the right of the Borrower to utilize the proceeds
of the USAID Grant shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of such Grant.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Bor-
rower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and


﻿-7-
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the project director, the deputy project director and
the senior research adviser referred to in Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement have been appointed;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
USAID Grant Agreement, or the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals thereunder, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c) the Borrower has deposited in the Project account the
amount referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; and
(d) ARC has completed a study comparing its salaries and
benefits with those provided by other comparable institutions,
such as the universities, employing high calibre scientific
staff, and has adopted incentives for its staff to be assigned
to work on the Project satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agree-
ment has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, ARC, and is legally binding upon ARC in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 27, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.04 and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit


﻿-8-
Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of National Planning or the Under-
secretary of the Ministry of National Planning of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum     I
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:                       Telex:
EIMAR                               324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Osman Hashim Abdel-Salam
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures kor items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works (build-        9,900,000         100% of foreign
ing construction)                            expenditures
(2) Aircraft                     300,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Aircraft operating
expenses
(a) imported spares          50,000          100% of foreign
and services                            expenditures
(b) locally pro-            250,000          60%
cured goods
and services
(4) Unallocated                4,500,000
TOTAL       15,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods and services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or


﻿- 11 -
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) expen-
ditures under Category (1) until the Borrower shall have imple-
mented the provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or ref erred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to develop, expand and
increase the efficiency of ARC's research operations in west
Sudan, and to provide supporting services and facilities for
ARC's new headquarters, to be established under the Project, in
Khartoum. The first three years of Project implementation will be
mainly devoted to the improvement of research institutions; the
actual research programs will be carried out during the next three
years. Accordingly, the Project consists of the following two
parts:
Part A:   Institutional Development of ARC's Research Operations.
1.   Research Center and Stations:
(a) the establishment of the Project Center at Nyala,
equipped with laboratories, staff offices and
houses, vehicles and other research facilities; and
(b) the establishment (or development) of three
research stations located at El-Fasher, El-Obeid
and Kadugli, respectively, and equipped with
laboratories, staff offices and houses, vehicles
and other research facilities.
2.   Other Institutional Development:
(a) the provision of a headquarters building for ARC in
Khartoum, provided with the necessary furniture,
office equipment and vehicles; and
(b) the establishment of three new units, namely,
the project support unit and the planning and
evaluation unit at ARC's headquarters and the
in-service training and extension unit at the
Project Center.
3.   Fellowships:
Overseas fellowships for the scientific staff of ARC
to pursue studies and training and attend scientific
conferences.


﻿-13-
4.   Technical Assistance and Cooperation:
The conclusion of arrangements between ARC and exter-
nal research institutions for the cooperation in scien-
tific problem solving.
Part B:   Research Programs.
The Project provides for two major research programs:
1.   The research program on livestock/crop production
systems which shall be implemented under three sub-programs at the
following places: (a) El Obeid (integrated crop/livestock on
non-cracking clay soils); (b) Kadugli (integrated crop/livestock
on cracking clay soils); and (c) El Fasher (livestock at the arid
desert fringe). In addition, ARC will assume, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, responsibility
for agricultural research to be carried out by WSDC at Ghazala
Gawazat, which would cover the two other important production
systems in the Project area, namely: (i) integrated crop/livestock
on stabilized sands; and (ii) livestock in the semi-arid areas.
Research at these four places will have a common approach with
emphasis on the environmental and production systems' aspects in
each of such places, all as shown in Annex C to this Schedule.
2.   Research program on water and land use management.
This program will be directed from Nyala, its major objective is
to support the research programs specified under paragraph 1
above. Components of this program are provided in Annex C to this
Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿-14-
ANNEX A
Scientists and Senior Staff to be employed under the Project
1.   Staff to be posted at the ARC headquarters in Khartoum:
(a) Project Support Unit:
1 Senior Research Adviser to the Director General
of ARC (head of the Project Support Unit);
1 Project Liaison Officer;
1 Project Architect/Research Station Planner; and
1 Accountant.
(b) Planning and Evaluation Unit:
1 Planning and Evaluation Advisor (head of the Planning
and Evaluation Unit).
2.   Staff to be posted at the Nyala Research Center:
(a) Director's Office:
1 Project Director;
1 Deputy Project Director;
1 Station Superintendent;
1 Accountant; and
1 Communications Officer/Pilot.
(b) Production Systems Research Program:
1 Livestock/Crop Production Systems Specialist (Program
Leader);
1 Sociologist (Discipline Leader);
1 Sociologist;


﻿- 15 -
2 Economists;
1 Biometrician;
2 Groundnut Breeders; and
1 Research Liaison Officer.
(c) Water and Land Use Research Program:
1 Water and Land Use Specialist (Program Leader);
1 Water and Land Use Specialist (Deputy Program
Leader);
1 Soil Physicist;
1 Soil Chemist;
1 Agro-Climatologist;
1 Agro-Climatologist (Discipline Leader);
1 Agro-Climatologist; and
1 Water Engineer.
(d) In-service Training and Extension Unit:
1 Training Officer (head of In-service Training and
Extension Unit); and
1 Assistant Training Officer.
3.   Staff to be posted at the El Fasher Research Station:
1 Range Specialist (Sub-Program Leader Arid Livestock
Production);
1 Range Specialist;
1 Camel Specialist; and
1 Sheep and Goat Specialist.


﻿- 16 -
4.   Staff to be posted at the Kadugli Research Station:
(a) Sub-Program Livestock/Crop Production on Cracking
Clay Soils:
1 Plant Breeder/Agronomist (Sub-Program Leader);
1   Farm Management Economist (Discipline Leader);
1 Farm Management Economist;
1 Agricultural Engineer;
1 Sorghum Breeder;
1 Livestock Specialist/Forage Agronomist; and
1 Research Liaison Officer.
(b) Water and Land Use Research Program:
1 Field Project Officer.
5.   Staff to be posted at the El Obeid Research Station:
(a) Sub-Program'Livestock/Crop Production on Non-Cracking
Clay Soils:
1 Systems Agronomist (Sub-Program Leader);
2 Gum Arabic Specialists;
1 Agricultural Engineer;
1 Farm Management Economist;
1 Millet Breeder;
1 Kerkadeh Specialist;
1 Livestock Specialist; and
1 Research Liaison Officer.
(b) Water and Land Use Research Program:
1 Field Project Officer.


﻿- 17 -
ANNEX B
Technical Assistance to ARC
1.   Long-Term Assignments of Internationally Recruited Staff:
Internationally recruited staff are required to fill the
following positions under the Project:
1 Senior Research Advisor to the Director General of ARC;
1 Research Planning and Evaluation Adviser;
1 Project Architect/Research Station Planner;
1 Deputy Project Director;
1 Livestock/Crop Production Systems Specialist - Program
Leader;
1 Sociologist - Discipline Leader;
1 Farm Management Economist - Discipline Leader;
1 Agricultural Engineer - Discipline Leader;
1 Water and Land Use Specialist - Program Leader; and
1 Agro-Climatologist - Discipline Leader.
2.   Fellowships:
(a) 6 Ph.D. level fellowships (4 years) for 1 soil physi-
cist, 1 sociologist, 1 range specialist, 1 farm manage-
ment economist, 1 gum arabic specialist and 1 subject
matter specialist to be identified;
(b) 5 M.Sc. level fellowships (2 years) for 2 economists,
1 farm management economist, 1 agricultural engineer and
1 agro-climatologist; and
(c) 17 non-degree specialization courses (3-12 months) for
3 research liaison officers, 1 forage agronomist/
livestock specialist, 1 livestock specialist, 1 sheep
and goat specialist, 1 groundnut breeder, 1 millet


﻿- 18 -
breeder, 1 sorghum breeder, 1 water engineer, 1 agri-
cultural engineer, 1 gum arabic specialist, 1 kerkadeh
specialist, and four subject matter specialists to be
identified.
3.   Short-Term Consultancies:
(a) 20 man-months for the research programs in West Sudan;
(b) 10 man-months for solar energy research; and
(c) 50 man-months for the Planning and Evaluation Unit at
ARC headquarters in Khartoum.
4.   Building Program Technical Assistance:
(a) Development Study and Report: to be carried out by a
firm of internationally reputed architect/planners in
association with agricultural scientists and supported
by appropriate engineering and surveying expertise. The
study would chart the magnitude and direction of growth
at each station and include: soil analysis and climatic
data; a definition of the functional program; prepara-
tion of detailed architectural briefs and room data
sheets; a schedule of accommodation; a list of major
laboratory equipment; site development plans for land
and physical facilities; a building system study to
compare traditional systems with modular construction
and air freighting of materials; a preliminary cost
estimate; and an anticipated implementation schedule for
civil works construction.
(b) Executive Architects
An internationally reputed firm of executive architects
will be appointed to: establish and manage a work pro-
gram for all activities during the design, construction
and commissioning phases of the Project; prepare sketch
designs and design development drawings for client
approval; prepare contract documents, namely working
drawings, specifications and bidding documents; coordi-
nate the work of structural engineers and mechanical
services engineers; with the quantity surveyors, prepare
and update cost estimates throughout the Project life
and prepare cash flow projections to indicate funding


﻿- 19 -
requirements throughout the construction period; in
cooperation with the Project Support Unit, administer
bidding procedures and contracts; supervise construc-
tion, reinforced by resident clerks of works and site
engineers provided by the Borrower; carry out the final
inspection and acceptance of completed buildings; and
prepare final accounts.
(c) Procurement Assistance:
Consultants will be employed to assist in the procure-
ment of goods including: assembling of bid packages;
supervising bidding and contract awards.
(d) Physical Facilities Development:
This includes short-term assignments of engineers
to provide professional counsel to ARC.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX C
Research Programs
A.   Research Center, Nyala
1.   The Research Center at Nyala will comprise:
(a) the Project Director's Office;
(b) the headquarters of the Production Systems Research
Program including socio-economic support services;
(c) the headquarters of the Water and Land Use Research
Program; and
(d) the In-service Training and Extension Unit.
2.   Capital Investments:
1,500 m2 offices and field laboratories;
55     staff houses;
2     mobile research units;
7     four-wheel drive vehicles;
8     motor cars;
1     minibus;
1     aircraft; and
5     radios, one of which may be used in Khartoum.
B.   Production Systems Research Program
The program will study, through the establishment and opera-
tion of interdisciplinary research teams, the five important
agricultural production systems in West Sudan, namely:
(a) arid livestock production at the desert fringe (El
Fasher);


﻿- 21 -
(b) semi-arid livestock production in the south of the
Project area, interspersed with crop production (Ghazala
Gawazat);
(c) integrated crop/livestock production on stabilized
sands (Ghazala Gawazat);
(d) integrated crop/livestock production on non-cracking
clays (Kadugli);
(e) integrated crop/livestock production on cracking clays
(El Obeid);
1.   Arid Livestock Production Sub-Program based at El Fasher
(a) Research
Range condition and trend, range manipulation
through different livestock species, water regimes,
fire and grazing rotations; methods to stop the advance
of the desert; structure and productivity of camel
herds and sheep and goat flocks; effects of improved
disease control, feeding of mineral supplements, and
drought proofing mechanisms and strategies; human
resource studies including demographic structure and
trends, nutritional and health status, organizational
and social context of the production unit, socio-
economic value patterns, marketing processes, animal
management patterns; and interpopulation pressures
through competition for resources.
(b) Capital Investments:
550 m2 of offices and field laboratories;
300 m2 of farm buildings;
16    staff houses; furniture and equipment; minor
fencing;
1    mobile research unit;
4    four-wheel drive vehicles;
1    motor car; and
2    radios.


﻿- 22 -
2.   Semi-arid Livestock Production Sub-Program based at
Ghazala Gawazat
(a) Research:
(i) Rangeland production: the assessment of range
condition and trend; its primary productivity
and improvement possibilities through con-
trolled grazing, water and fire management;
the introduction of new species (particularly
leguminous trees and shrubs), the strategic
use of localities with better soils or water
availability; and to a lesser extent, reseed-
ing and bush control.
(ii) Livestock production: the structure and pro-
ductivity of cattle herds and sheep and goat
flocks; the effect of improved disease con-
trol, mineral supplements and the feeding of
crop residues and by-products on herd produc-
tivity and herd productivity changes through
the early extraction and fattening of young
males.
(iii) Pastoral security:  human  resources  studies
including demographic Gtructure and trends,
nutritional and health status; organizational
and social context of the production unit,
socio-economic value patterns, and interpopu-
lation pressures through competition for
resources; and investigations of the oppor-
tunities for capital investment other than in
livestock.
(iv) Pastoral systems: integration of research
results into proposals for improving tradi-
tional systems of husbandry and people's
lifestyles.
(b) Capital investments: to be provided under the
Previous Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 23 -
3.   Integrated Livestock/Crop Production Sub-Program on
Stabilized Sands-Sub-Program based at Ghazala Gawazat
(a) Research
(i) Systems' themes: Differential efficiencies and
costs of crops and livestock; study of inte-
grating factors such as risk minimization,
even use of labor, utilization of unsaleable
products and the effect of manure on soil
fertility; evolution of crop/fodder/pasture
rotations; small farm economic studies; the
social structure of production units; market-
ing procedures and opportunities; institu-
tional requirements in the subsistence sector,
development of technology packages easily
applicable by subsistence farmers; and the
environmental impact of innovations.
(ii) Crops: the testing of food and cash crops,
particularly new millet and groundnut varie-
ties; minimum tillage and water management
technology, crop protection, cultivation
practices and their timing; weed control and
fertilizer use.
(iii) Livestock: the use of draught animals; milk
and meat production; nutritional values of
crop by-products and residues; fertilizer
values of animal wastes and comparative pro-
ductive and reproductive efficiencies of local
cattle, sheep and goats at low and variable
feed supplies.
(iv) Pasture and forage: possible new species to
improve range production; the impact and eco-
nomics of forage crops, fertilizers and
irrigation to increase feed supply at critical
times; conserved fodder cut from pasture
and forage crops and crop residues and grain
supplements for the maintenance or survival
feeding of stock during the dry season.
(b) Capital investments: to be provided under the Pre-
vious Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 24 -
4.   Integrated Livestock/Crop Production Sub-Program on
non-Cracking Clays based at El Obeid
(a) Research:
The same sub-program as referred to under Section
B 3 (a) of this Annex with additional emphasis on:
millet, improved tillage technology including ani-
mal traction and gum arabic (Acacia senegal)
studies.
The wild-growing plant kerkadeh will be
studied regarding its suitability both in an
integrated farming system or as a plantation
crop.
(b) Capital Investments:
1,000 m2 of offices and field laboratories;
1,200 m2 of farm buildings;
28    staff houses, furniture and equipment;
2    mobile research units;
6    four-wheel drive vehicles;
8    motor cars;
1    tractor; and
3    radios.
5.   Integrated Livestock/Crop Production Sub-Program on
Cracking Clays based at Kadugli
(a) Research:
The same sub-program as referred to under Section
B 3 (a) of this Annex with additional emphasis on:
(i) Crops: sorghum, sesame, cotton and soybeans
suitable for reasonable rainfall conditions.


﻿- 25 -
(ii) Livestock: animal traction, milk and meat
production of local and introduced breeds
of cattle, sheep and goats and their crosses.
(iii) Pasture and forage: techniques of fodder
conservation in particular hay.
(iv) Cultural techniques: examination of hand and
mechanized tools for more rapid and more
efficient cultivation of black cotton soils,
tillage practices by hand, animal traction
and varying degrees of mechanization in rela-
tion to optimal water use, root penetration
and plant growth, soil erosion, timing of
tillage and labor requirements and economic
evaluation.
(b) Capital Investments
1,100 m2 offices and field laboratories;
1,200 m2 farm buildings;
29    staff houses;
2    mobile research units;
4    four-wheel drive vehicles;
9    motor cars;
4    tractors; and
3    radios.
C.   Water and Land Use Research Program
This Program will support the five multi-disciplinary
research sub-programs described in Part B of this Annex. The
main lines of research include:
(1) Resource potential: an inventory and the analysis
of previous investigations and of existing envi-
ronmental data for the Project area on meteorolo-
gical records, air photographs and satellite


﻿- 26 -
imagery, water balance, primary productivity,
pedology, ecological trend and human and animal
demography.
(2) Water management technology:  water   conservation,
infiltration, penetration, run-off and harvesting,
surface and underground storage; evaporation; and
efficient minimum use of water for crops and
livestock and human populations.
(3) Socio-economics of water management:   comparative
costs and benefits of the techniques of harvesting,
storing and using water; social structures and
economic pressures as mechanisms to control and
restrict water use in order to control livestock
numbers and to improve rangeland management and
crop farming.


