RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                   Report No. P-730
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SPAIN
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 2, 1969



INTEJAITIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPIC'1T
REPORT AND REC011EDNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LON TO SPAIN FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNMET PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommlendation on a proposed
loan to Spain in an amnount in various currencies equivalent to US$25 million
for a livestock develoTpment nroject.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     The proposed loan would be the Bank's fifth to Spain and its first
for agriculture in that country.    The project had its origin in the
report of a joint Bank/FAO mission that reviewed Spanish agriculture in
late 1965.   rhe mission concluded that there would be a major increase in
the demand for meat, especially beef and veal, and that demand would increase
faster than meat production could be expanded.   It recoimended that high
priority be given to a major program, of livestock development, with assoc-
iated pasture development and technical assistanace.   As Spain had consider-
able potential for livestock development, the missionl considered such a
program feasible, provided that policies with regard to prices, imports and
marketing of meat were adjusted to provide appropriate incentives and assur-
ances to livestocI producers.
3.     At the request of the Govermnent, staff mermbers of the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program visited Spain in 1967 and 1968 to assisti in the pre-
paration of a project representing the first phase of a livestoclc develop-
ment program.   This project was appraised by Bank missions later in 1968
and in the spring of 1969.   Negotiations took place in Washington in NIay
and June 1969.   The negotiators for the Borrowier were led by Sr. Juan
Antonio Ortiz Gracia, Director General of the Instituto de Credito a IIedio
y Largo Plazo (ICP), and included representatives of the Ninistries of Finarnce,
Agriculture and Commerce.



- 2 -
4.     The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Spain as
at May 31, 1969:
Loan
Number     Year     Borrower     Purpose      ;--nount      Undisbursed
(US$ million)
360-SP     1963      Spain       Highways      32.2
387-SP     1964      RENFE       Railways      65.0             -
429-SP     1965      Spain       Ports         40.0           18.8
507-SP     1967      RENFE       Railways       50.0          36.h
Total (less cancellation)              187.2
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                    3.9
Total now outstanding                  183.3
Amount sold                 3.4
of which has been
repaid                   2.2          1.2
Total now held by Bank                 182.1
Total undisbursed                          2            55.2
Construction of the ports project (Loan No. 429-SP) has been delayed by
design changes (necessitated by changed conditions), difficulties in moving
port lessees to temporary sites, technical problems requiring protracted
laboratory study, lack of sufficient construction equipment for certain
works, and unusually time consuming contracting procedures for civil
works. The procurement of equipment is substantially on schedule. The
Government was asked to review the construction schedules and to take
measures to speed up completion of the project.   Construction is now pro-
ceeding at a satisfactory rate, but completion by the present Closing Date
of the loan is, for reasons beyond the control of the Ports Administration,
no longer possible. The Government has therefore proposed the elimination
or transfer from the Baxk-financed part of the project of certain items
which are unduly delayed or are no longer necessary; it has also requested
that the Closing Date of the loan be postponed to accord with the revised
construction schedule. These requests are under consideration.
5.     IFC has made two investments in Spain totalling $4 million.   The
first was for $3.4 million in Fabrica Espanola Magneto S.A. (FEI4SA), an
automotive electrical equipment manufacturer, of which $2.5 million was a
loan and the remainder equity; as a result of sales of equity and repayments
IFC still held US$ 0.8 million of the loan and $0.6 million in equity at
May 31, 1969. The other investment is a $0.6 million equity participation
in Banco del Desarrollo Economico Espanol, S.A. (BANDESCO), a privately
owned development finance company.
6.     No further proposals for Bank loans to Spain are expected to be
presented to the Executive Directors before the latter part of this fiscal
year. At that time the Executive Directors may be asked to consider pro-
posals for a first loan for education and a third loan for railways. IFC



is examining a proposal for investmaent in a synt"hetic fiber plant which
may be suitable for consideration within the next twelve mon+hs.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.     Borrower:         Spain
Amount:           The equivalent in various currencies of US$25 million.
Purpose:          To assist the financing of the development of live-
stock resources in order to increase meat production,
principally beef, through a combination of credit
facilities, technical assistance, and liberalized
meat trade.
Amortization:     In 17 years including a five-year period of grace,
through senmi-annual installments beginning Decem-
ber 15, 1974, and ending December 15, 1986.
Interest Rate:    6?~ percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Relending Terms: Loans to livestock producers will carry interest
at 6.5 percent, plus an 0.5 percent technical
service charge.
f ti.riated Economic
Return:           11 percent, with output of the project valued at
forecast international prices.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.     An appraisal report entitled "Livestock Do-velopment Project - Spain"
(PFA-13a) on tho proposed project is ;.ttached (-To. 1).
9.     Although agriculture's relative importance in the Spanish economy
has declined sharply in the past decade, it continues to be of greater im-
portance than is usual in European countries, reflecting the slower pace
of development in the past. Almost one-third of the active population is
employed in this sector, which contributes a sixth of gross domestic product
and a quarter of exports. The development of Spanish agriculture has been
retarded by price and other policies which have resulted in misallocation of
resources, insufficient modernization, inadequate production and high costs.
10.    The livestock sub-sector accounts for more than a third of Spain's
agricultural production. Total meat production in 1967 was 1.1 million tons,
of which 481,000 tons was pork and 215,000 tons was beef and veal. Con-
ditions for cattle production are exceptionally favorable in the northern
part of the country, although small farm size and land tenure problems have
limited farm modernization. About half Spain's cattle are located in that



area, and are mainly dairy cattle.  The small volume of specialized beef
production comes from the relativelyr unproduct ve natural p-.sjures of the
dry land zone in the southwest. The total cattle population is about 4
million; it has increased only slightly in recent years.
11.    Spanish meat consumption remains among the lowest in Western Europe
although, with rising incomes, it has been increasing rapidly in recent
years. The increase in demand for beef and veal has been particularly
rapid, and domestic production has not been able to keep pace. Consequently,
imports of beef have risen very rapidly and now account for a third of the
domestic consumption of beef and veal. The growth in meat imports has had
a significant impact on Spain's balance of payments. The increase in domestic
production has been limited by technological and institutional factors. From
a technological viewpoint, the most important constraint has been the lack of
access by producers to information regarding modern techniques of pasture
improvement and management, herd management,and animal feeding and health
care.  The most important institutional factors include insufficient avail-
ability of credit adapted to the slowly maturing type of investments assoc-
iated with livestock production, and inadequate meat import and marketing
policies.  The policy of not importing veal in the face of a rapidly rising
demand for meat has caused domestic veal prices to rise to levels that offer
an incentive to the sale of calves for slaughter. The consequent heavy
slaughter of calves inhibits herd expansion and limits potential production
of both veal and beef. Simultaneously, and in order to keep down prices to
the consumer, large quantities of frozen beef have been imported: this is
currently sold at subsidized prices and the effect has been to further in-
hibit domestic beef production.
12.    The project would be the first part of a program to develop Spain's
livestock resources through a combination of technical assistance, credit
facilities and liberalized trade. About one thousand farmers in the south-
western and northern regions of the country are expected to participate.
Credit would be provided for the development of improved pastures, fencing,
water supplies, machinery for fodder production, livestock buildings, and
the purchase of cattle.  The introduction of new production teclmiques is
vital to the project, and technical assistance would be provided to help
farmers in planning and implementing the required changes in production and
management. In the dry land zone of the southwest, where the project would
be mainly located, the most important element would be the replacement of
natural pastures of low productivity through the exploitation of subterranean
clover and forage crops offering a substantially higher level of output.
Farms in this area would produce mainly feeder cattle and fat stock for
slaughter. In the northern area, where conditions are ideal for their pro-
duction, improved strains of the more productive temperate zone species of
permanent pasture would be introduced. Production in this area would be
mainly of milk, with weaner calves as a significant by-product. In both areas,
cattle would be vaccinated against prevalent diseases.
13.    A Livestock Development Agency (LDA), with senior staff satisfactory
to the Bank, would be established as a decentralized unit of the Ministry of
Agriculture.  It would provide technical assistance to farmers, help them
prepare farm investment plans, recommend loans for such plans as it approved



and supervise the execution of approved loans. As there is no w4idely-
established market for surplus female cattle, except through the slaughter-
house, a system of livestock procurement would be set up to purchase heifers
that would otherwise be slaughtered for veal and to rear them to breeding
age for deployment to farms in the southwestern area. A Fund would be
created in the Instituto de Credito a lNedio y Largo Plazo (ICP), the channel
through which Government investment funds are transmitted to the official
banking system, to refinance long and short-term loans made to participating
farmers. These loans would be made by private banks and other credit in-
stitutions, and by the official Agricultural Credit Bank, which would open
a branch in the main project area. To be eligible for refinancing, loans
would have to be in respect of farm investment plans approved by LDA. Long-
term development loans would finance livestock purchases and farm improvements
and would be for 12 years, including 3 years' grace, at an interest rate
of 6.5 percent. Short-term loans would provide wforking capital to help
finance incremental operating exDenses under the project; they would be for
periods determined by the approved farm investment plans and would also he
at 6.5 percent interest. Both types of loans would be refinanced at 5.75
percent. Loan proposals in excess of $200,000 would require prior Bank
approval. The Fund would also be the channel for financing the establish-
ment and operating costs of LDA.
i4.    During negotiations, the Government agreed to introduce major reforms
in meat marketing and price policies. Satisfactory assurances have been re-
ceived regarding the progressive introduction of these reforms. They include:
the prompt lifting of the prohibition on veal imports; the abolition of the
subsidies on imported beef within 18 months; the transfer of the bulk of meat
importing to the private sector, and the elimination of quantitative re-
strictions on beef and veal imports and their replacement by import levies,
not exceeding 15 percent on the average, within four years; and the improve-
ment of the price support syster for donestically produced meat.  It has been
further agreed that should unforeseen circumstances arise which would
materially affect this program, there would be consultations betw:een the
Government and the Bank to arrive at mutually satisfactory arrangements for
the inplementation of the program. The measures to be introduced should not
only provide the incentives and assurances to participating farmers necessalaY
for the development of beef production, but should also have a wider impact
on livestock development and lead to a more efficient allocation of resources.
15.    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$52 million; of which
$47 million would be for farm development, $1.4 million for the establish-
ment and operation of LDA, and $3.6 million for the operation of the system
of livestock procurement.  The participating farmers would finance 15 percent
of the farm development costs. They would also finance 29 percent of the
costs of LDA during thle development period through an annual technical
service charge of 0.5 percent on loans made to them under the project;
eventually, payments of this charge would largely cover the cost of LDA.
Government contributions would provide for 33 percent of the farm development
costs, 36 percent of the costs of LDA and the entire cost of the system of
livestock procurement.  The proposed Bank loan would be used to finance
52 percent of farm development costs and 36 percent of the costs of LDA.
The Bank would reimburse the Borrower in respect of 61 percent of the



- 6 -
eligible loans refinanced by the Fund, and 36 percent of the costs of LDA,
against certified statements of disbursement.
16.    The foreign exchange costs of the project are estimated at about
US$10 million or 19 percent of the total cost, so that the proposed loan
would involve financing some $15 million of local currency expenditures.
Spain is a country which has achieved a considerable degree of industrial
development with the result that development projects there tend to have
quite a low foreign exchange component. It would therefore be difficult to
design an effective lending program to Spain based wholly upon financing the
foreign exchange expenditures associated with particular projects. Moreover,
the Bank has a positive interest in concentrating its efforts in Spain in
such fields as agriculture and education, which have great strategic importance
in Spain's development program and in which the Bank can exercise significant
influence in achieving urgent sectoral reforms. Yet projects in these fields
tend to have a relatively low foreign exchange component. In these circum-
stances I consider that financing part of the local expenditures on this
high-priority project is fully justified. It should also be added that as
cattle are withheld from slaughter during the development of the present
project in order to build up the herds, additional imports of meat will be
necessary to offset the resulting decrease in domestic supply; it is esti-
mated that these imports will require foreign exchange outlays of about $10
million during the disbursement period.
17.    The economic rate of return on the project is estimated at 11 percent
without taking account of certain non-quantifiable benefits. The project
would introduce new and superior livestock production techniques to partici-
pating farmers which others could be expected to adopt as a result of the
demonstration effect. The training of technicians, both in Spain and abroad,
would develop domestic expertise that could be applied to similar projects
in the future. The project would promote the development of domestic markets
for breeding cattle, feeder cattle and improved pasture seeds. It would
provide an improved pattern of land use. Eventually, the project would
give rise to significant foreign exchange savings by reducing the rate of
increase in meat imports. It would also promote major reforms in agricultural
credit and meat import and marketing policies leading to a more effective
allocation of resources.
18.    As is generally the case with agricultural credit projects, inter-
national competitive bidding is not appropriate in this instance. The size
and composition of individual farm investments vary substantially, and con-
tracts would be small and numerous. The goods, both locally produced and im-
ported, required for farm development would be provided through normal
commercial channels.  Local competition, which includes a number of inter-
national firms, is quite active.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
19.    The draft Loan Agreement between Spain and the Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section h (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and a draft Resolution are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 7-
20.    The provisions of the Loan Agreement generally conform to the pattern
of Bank agricultural credit loans. It should be noted that Section 7.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement requires fulfillment of the following conditions of
effectiveness: (a) establishment of the LDA and appointment of an acceptable
technical director; (b) appointment of an acceptable technical consultant
for the North Project area; (c) organization of the system of livestock
procurement and initial provision of funds for its operation; and (d) setting
up the Fund in ICP and provision of its initial resources.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.    A memorandum entitled "Spain: Memorandum on the Economic Situation",
dated June 30, 1969, is attached (No. 2).
22.    Since the stabilization program undertaken in 1959-60, Spain's economy
has had, until recently a high rate of growth. In real terms, the annual
rate of increase in total output averaged 8 percent between 1961 and 1966.
In large measure, this growth was due to the important policy changes intro-
duced under the program, and especially to the progressive liberalization of
trade. As a result of measures talcen in 1966 to counter inflationary ten-
dencies, the rate of growth has slowed considerably in the last two years.
Nevertheless, the economic problems that Spain is now encountering are those
of a much more modern and sophisticated economy than was the case ten years
ago.
23.    Spain has good potential for further economic growth, provided the
necessary reforms are carried through in agriculture, industry and infra-
structure, there are improvements in budgetary, monetary and capital market
policies, and there are more liberal policies, particularly in respect of
trade. The need for many of these changes is recognized in the Second Devel-
opment Plan (1968-71), which includes many proposals for policy reforms,
both general and for individual sectors.  If the economy is to grow at a
relatively rapid rate and to be restructured, the need to supplement domestic
savings with external capital will be greater than in the past. The major
part of this need will continue to be covered by private long-term capital
inflows, which have been increasing strongly in recent years. Recently,
Government agencies have also been raising funds in international financial
markets, and use of these sources could and should be expanded. However,
these resources cannot yet be expected to be adequate to finance the desirable
level of investment, and further Bank lending to Spain is justified. Spain's
debt servicing record is excellent and the debt service is moderate; service
on existing debt is currently equivalent to less than 3 percent of 1968
foreign exchange earnings and will reach a peak of 7 percent in 1971. The
country is creditworthy for substantial amounts of additional Bank lending.
However, given the stage of development that Spain has reached, Bank lending
should be conditional upon the development of projects involving significant
sectoral reforms and upon the vigorous pursuit by the Government of finance
from other external sources.



- 8 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE I=TH THE ARTICLE5 OF AGREOENT
24.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the require-
ments of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMbENDATION
25.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 2, 1969



