RET-URN TO
REPORTS  DESK ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ESRITE
FiLE    COPY Y            Report No. PA- 1 3T
WVITHIN.
ONIE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SPAIN
July 1, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US      $1         = Pesetas    70
Pesetas  1         =  US     $  0.014
Pesetas  1,000,000 = US      $ 124,286
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (Kg)                     = 2.20 pounds
1,000 Kg            = 1 metric ton  = 0.98 long ton
1imeter (m)                          = 1.09 yards
1 kilometet (kn)              2      = 0.62 mile
1 hec-tare (ha)     = 10,000 m       = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer  = 100 ha         = 0.39 square mile
= 247.11 acres
1 liter                              = 0.26 US gallon
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ICP       Instituto de Credito a Medio y Largo Plazo
BCA       Banco de Credito Agricola
CiAT      Comisaria General de Abastecimientos y Transportes
SLP   =   System of Livestock Procurement



SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......      ..................                        i
I.    INTRODUCTION ............................................               1
II.   BACKGROUND) ..............................................              1
A. General .......... ,                                                 1
B.   The Agricultural Sect,r .............................              2
C.  Agricultural Credit Services ........................               5
D.   Livestock Development and Marketing Policies          ........     7
III. THE PROJECT .............................................                8
A.   Description .........................................              8
B.   The Project Areas ...................................              9
C.  Detailed Features ...................................              10
D.   Cost Estimates ......................................             12
E.   Financing ...........................................             14
F.   Project Authority and Technical Services ....         ........    14
G.   Terms and Conditions of Lending and Relending .......             15
H.   Disbursement and Auditing ...........................             17
I.  Procurement .........................................              18
IV.   PRICES, MARKETS AND PRODUCERS' BENEFITS ....           .............   18
A.   Prices and Markets ..................................             18
B.   Producers' Benefits .......................                       19
V.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS .........      ..   .........     19
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................              20
All the mission members contributed to this report. Mr. F. van Gigch was
primarily responsible for its preparation.






ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Credit !Lstitutions and Policies
2.   Government Policies Related to Production, Pricing and Mark'.:L of
Livestock
3.   Development Projections
Tabl' 1 - Physical and Financie.l Coefficients
Table  2 - Physical and FinanciELI Coefficients (cont')
500-ha Dryland Ranch, Southwest
Table  3 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table  4 - Cattle Herd Development Projections
Table  5 - Sheep Herd Development Projections
Table  6 - Sales Projecti.)ns
Table  7 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table  8 - Financial Projections
40-ha Irrigated Ranch, Southwest
Table  9 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 1.0 - Sales Projections
Table 1.1 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 12 - Financial Projections
40-ha Dairy Farm, North
Table 1.3 - On-Farm Investment Projections
Table 14 - Dairy Herd Development Projections
Table 15 - Sales Projections
Table 16 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 17 - Financial Projections
4.   Procurement of Breeding Cattle for the Southwest Project area
5.   Livestock Development Agency
Table  1 - Staffing Schedule During Development Phase
Table 2 - Administrative Costs During Development Phase
Appendix 1 - Organization Chart
6.   Financial and Economic Returns
Table 1 - Financial Rates of Return
Table 2 - Economic Rate of Return
MAP
1.   Project; areas






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This is the report of the appraisal of a Livestock Development
Project in Spain for which a Bank loan of US$ 25 million equivalent is pro-
posedl. The Project is designed to initiate major changes in livestock pro-
duction techniques and policies to help meet a rapidly increasing demand for
meat,  Beef imports nearly doubled between 1962 and 1968 and currently ac-
count; for about 30% of beef and veal consumption. The Project would provide
technical assistance and finance to farmers for modernizing livestock pro-
duction techniques. The major investments to be financed are additional
breeding cows and on-farm and ranch improvements directed at increasing the
carrying capacity of the land. The Project aims at creating incentives for
participating farmers by introducing substantial reforms in the current
system of meat marketing. The Project also provides for a change in interest
rate policy to achieve more effective allocation of resources for medium -
and long-term agricultural investments and to encourage greater participation
of private banks.
ii.       Project funds would be channeled to farmers by the Instituto de
Credito a Medio y Largo Plazo (ICP) through the Banco de Credito Agricola
and private lending institutions, utilizing a refinancing operation. Loans
for on-ranch investment and working capital would be extended to farmers for
a term of up to 12 years including a 3-year grace period. Borrowers would
pay a total charge of 7% per annum consisting of 6.5% interest and 0.5%
technical service charge. A Livestock Development Agency would be establish-
ed to provide technical services to participating producers. It would be
headed by a local Project Director assisted by expatriate experts. About
1,000 farmers, located in two regions, are expected to participate in the
Project. In the Southwest, beef production would be emphasized on combined
breeding-fattening farms and on specialized fattening irrigated farms. In
the the North, the Project would promote milk production, with beef as a
significant by-product, on about 150 dairy farms.
iii.      Total cost is estimated at about US$ 52 million equivalent.   The
proposed Bank loan of US$ 25 million would finance the foreign exchange compo-
nent amounting to us$ 10 million and US$ 15 mtillion of local costs. Part of
these local costs correspond to the indirect foreign exchange expenditures
that would arise because additional meat must be imported to compensate for
the retention of local breeding stock during the herd buildup period for the
Project. However, the principal Justification for local currency financing
lies in Country economic considerations. The contribution of Government,
producers and the Bank would be 38%, 14% and 48% respectively.
-v.       Since a well developed market for breeding cattle does not exist
in the Project area, a local system of livestock procurement would be or-
ganized and would be financed with Project funds. Other goods and services
required for farm development; would be procured through normal commercial
channels mainly from local sources.



- ii -
V.        Expected benefits to participants and to the overall economy are
adequate. The financial rate of return to breeding-fattening farms and
specialized fattening irrigated farms in the Southwest is estimated at
about 18%, and to dairy farms in the North at about 54%. The Project's
economic rate of return is estimated at 11%.   In addition the Project would
serve as a basis for further expansion of Spain's livestock sub-sector.
The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 25 million for a term of 17
years including a 5-year grace period. The borrower would be the Government
of Spain.



S P A I N
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.()1     The Government of Spain has applied for a Baik loan to assist in
the financing of a Livestock Development Project. The Project seeks to in-
troduce new methods of beef production in the Southwest where substantial
areas formerly devoted to extensive pig production can be converted into pro-
ductive pastures, and to re-orient and intensify dairy production in the
North to supply male calves now slaughtered for veal, as feeder cattle for
beef fattening operations. It has its origins in an IBRD/FAO agricultural
sector study which rated increased beef production as of the highest prioii-
ty. 1/ The proposal was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture with assis-
twnce from members of FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, who visited Spain during
late 1967 and early 1968.
1.02      This appraisal report is based on the findings of two Bank missions
that visited Spain during July and November 1968 and of a brief follow-up
appraisal mission of March 1969. The first mission was composed of Messrs.
C.P. McMeekan (Consultant), F. van Gigeh (Bank), D. Martin and R. Brown
(Consultants). This mission collected and updated relevant information on
production, marketing and credit policies, but due to the summer drought
cou-ld not assess the productive potentials of the types of pasture recommend-
ed. The second mission was composed of Messrs. C.P. McMeekan (Consultant),
F. van Gigch (Bank), R. Brown and R. Khourie (Consultants). In addition
Messrs. J. Gerring and C.E. Eugenio (Bank) made a short stopover in Spain to
consult with the mission. The second mission made the appraisal proper con-
cluding that, before arriving at a final judgement on Project technical fea-
si-bility, it would be necessary to check during early spring the yield of
suibterranean clover at peak production since it would be a key input in a
large portion of the Project area. The follow-up appraisal mission com-
posed of Messrs. C.P. McMeekan (Consultant), S. Takahashi and F. van Gigch
(Bank) also held discussions with Spanish authorities on some of the key
marketing and credit issues that had arisen during appraisal.
II. BACKCROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Spain has an area of about 505,000 km , half of which consists of
high plateaux averaging 700 meters above sea level. Rainfall which is con-
centrated in the winter months generally decreases from north to south while
temperatures increase.
1/ See IBRD/FAO, The Development of Agriculture in Spain, (November 1966).



2.02      The population of continental Spain is about 33 million.    Between
1961 and 1965 the annual rate of population growth was 0.8%. Between 1960
and 1967 real GDP grew at approximately 8% per annum. In 1967, per capita
income had reached the equivalent of about US$ 700.
2.03      Since 1965, Spain has had deficits in the balance of payments.
Projections to 1974, based on the 5.5 percent rate of real growth in GNP set
as an average annual target by the 1.96(R-1971 National Development Plan, sug-
gest a further widening of the balance of paymefits gap on current account. Im-
port substitution consistent with economic etfficiency would therefore contri-
bute to relieve the country's tight external position.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.o4      The latest agzicultural census (1962) reported about 3 million
farms cultivating about 44.7 million ha. Spain is a country of small and
fragmented farms with about 90% of the farms under 20 ha. Yet by European
standards Spain has a large farm base both in absolute terms and pn a
per capita basis. Most of the land is located in regions receiving less
than 700 mm rainfall and requires irrigation. In 1965 there were about 2
million ha under irrigation and about as many were in the process of being
developed for irrigation.   Although only 5% of the land is irrigated, it
produces about 400 of the gross value of output, specializing in high value
crops such as fruits and vegetables. Spain's main agricultural products
are; cereals, meats, fruits (particularly citrus), vegetables and beans,
dairy products, wines, and olive oil.
2.05      Agriculture contributes one sixth of GDP, employs nearly one third
of the active population and generates about one fourth of total foreign ex-
change earnings.  About 50% of the commodities exported. originate in agricul-
ture (principally fresh and processed fruits and vegetables, citrus, wines
and olive oil), but agricultural products also account for nearly 25% of im-
ports (mainly beef, oil bearing seeds, feeds and tropical products). Agricul-
ture remains a key sector even though in the midst of a rapidly expanding
economy, it has lagged relative to other more dynamic sectors. As a result
of this lag, the contribution of agriculture to GDP fell from 26% to 16%
between 1960 and 1967. Within agriculture, the most dynamic sub-sector has
been livestock which grew at an average annual rate of nearly 9%, princi-
pally due to the exceptionally rapid growth in poultry production. Crop pro-
duction grew at an average annual rate of about 3% with exportable crops such
as citrus, other fruits and tomatoes leading.
2.06      In spite of substantial progress, difficult institutional and struc-
tural problems still beset Spanish agriculture. Institutionally, autarkic
policies "or many years aimed at raising cereal output to satisfy domestic
needs rather than at increasing efficiency. The results have been misalloca-
tion of resources, insufficient modernization, maintenance of inadequate pro-
ducticn patterns and high costs. Structurally, one of the principal problems
has been the high man-land ratio which has resulted in the prevalence of small
farms, fragmentation of holdings and inadequate forms of tenancy. However,
recent sharp declines in the farm labor force as a result of better employ-
ment opportunities outside of agrItulture are beginning to reduce these



pressures. Between 1960 and 1967 the number of tractors and harvesters in-
creased fourfold and the consumption of diesel oil six times and fertilizers
by about 50%. As a consequence the rise in productivity in agriculture has
been better than indicated by the growth in total farm output. Sustaining
future high rates of growth in farm productivity will require further capital-
ization of agriculture, which in turn will require an increasing volume of
long-term agricultural financing.
The Livestock Sub-Sector
2.07      Livestock constitutes about 37% of Spain's gross agricultural pro-
duction. Meat and dairy are the most important livestock products, represent-
ing about 63% and 20% respectively of livestock's contribution to gross agri-
cultural production.  During 1967, total meat producticon was 1.1 million
metric tons. Pork provided the largest volume of meat (451,000 tons), follow-
ed by poultry (267,000 tons), beef and veal (215,000 tons) and lamb (123,000
tons).
2.08      Beef and veal production increased at an annual rate of about 5
percent between 1961 and 1968. These increases arose from both increases in
the number of animals slaughtered and increases in the average carcass weights.
About 40% of the growth in production can be attributed to the latter cause.
The increase in the number of cattle slaughtered, which accounts for about
60% of the increase in beef and veal production, consisted almost entirely of
calves. This emphasis in veal production relative to beef is understandably
a cause of concern to the Spanish authorities. Heavy veal slaughter is cur-
tailing not only actual beef production but also herd expansion and consequent-
ly limits future production of both beef and veal.
2.09      The demand for meats and particularly for beef and veal is rapidly
increasing but consumption is still only 10 kg per capita and remains among
the lowest of Wiestern Europe. Although the growth in domestic produqtion has
been rapid it has not kept pace with demand, causing a rapid expansion in
imports. Beef imports just about doubled between 1962 and 1.966 and current-
ly represent about 30%J of beef and veal consumption.
2.10      Cattle population was estimated at 4 million head in March 1968,
having increased at a rate of only 1% per annum between 1960 and 1968. About
one-half of Spain's cattle population is located in the north where natural
conditions for cattle production are exceptionally favorable although land
tenure problems limit farm modernization.   Most of the small quantity of
specialized beef cattle is located in the Southwest., It consists of a variety
of local breeds that are being improved with Hereford, Charolais, and Santa
Gertrudis. The average level of efficiency in cattle and dairy production
is low by advanced standards of animal husbandry. The average weaning rate 1/
is 60%. The relatively high extraction rate 2/ of 30% is explained by the
1/   Weaning r-ate is the number of calves alive at weaning expressed as an
annual percentage of the female breeding herd.
2/ Total number of cattle slaughtered annually expressed as a percentage
of total cattle population.



fact that more than half the cattle slaughtered is veal for which a substan-
tial price premium exists. The average carcass weight is 160 kg. Average
milk production per lactation is about 2,000 1/cow.
2.11      There were 18.6 million sheep in Spain in 1968.   Domestic unimproved
breeds prevail. Production techniques are generally primitive, and labor in-
tensive. Productivity is low. The average yield of wool is about 1.8 kg per
ewe and lambing percentages are about 65%. A substantial portion of the lamb
crop is sold at the weight of 7 to 10 kg.
2.12      Animal production has been affected by a number of disease and
internal parasite problems. The Government started a compulsory foot and
mouth disease vaccination campaign as from January 1, 1969. Vaccine supplies
appear adequate. With the objective of eventually eradicating brucellosis, a
test and slaughter campaign has recently been instituted for goats and will
be extended to cattle in 1970. Government-sponsored operations to control
internal parasites in sheep and cattle are carried out periodically on a dis-
trict basis.
Agricultural Services
2.13      The Government is aware of the need for further research on live-
stock production and is negotiating with UNDP for assistance in the development
of a more intensive program of pasture and forage improvement through research
and demonstration. During its first stage, this program would be concentrated
in the Project area in order to provide it with supplemental technical support
and, particularly, to generate information that could serve as a basis for fur-
ther extensions of the Project. Research and demonstration would be extended
to other regions during later stages.
2.14      Agricultural extension is principally under the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's Direccion General de Capacitacion Agraria. It operates 500 agencies
distributed throughout Spain employing about 1,100 technicians, most of whom
are technicians of intermediate -level and only a minority specialized in ani-
mal production. Although the service is recruiting actively, it remains un-
derstaffed in relation to the number of farmers needing technical assistance.
2.15      Graduate and post-graduate agricultural education is provided in
the superior schools of Madrid, Valencia, and Cordoba, and there exists eight
agricultural schools of intermediate level. Some professional skills, such
as Animal Husbandry and Farm Management, are particularly in scarce supply.
The Government is developing plans to reorganize and coordinate agricultural
research, extension and training.
2.16      The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for public health con-
trol, including meat inspection, and the Mlinistry of Agriculture for veterinary
research, diagnostic and advisory services to livestock producers, and for the
administration of regulatory measures necessary for the overall control of di-
seases in animals. A sufficient number of qualified veterinarians are employed
jointly by the two Ministries.



-5-
C. Agricultural Credit Services
2.17      Annex I describes the principal channels for agricultural credit.
Official credit is channeled by the Treasury through the Instituto de Credito
a Medio y Largo Plazo (iCP). Its principal functions Are to allocate funds,
raised either domestically or externally, to six official credit institutions
that conduct actual lending, and to regulate them. The Banco de Credito
Agricola (BCA) is the main official agricultural lending agency and the prin-
cipal source of medium- and long-term agricultural tredit. Most of its funds
originate from annual allocations from ICP. The BCA is required to refund
all proceeds of loan repayments to ICP. In a strict sense, BCA should be
regarded as an agency of the Treasury, rather than a true agricultural bank.
Up to the present, BCA consists of only a main office in Madrid with no rural
branches. BCA extends most loans of less than US$ 10,000 equivalent through
Savings Banks (Cajas de Ahorro) and Rural Savings Societies (Cajas Rurales).
Larger loans are extended directly by BCA. Savings Banks and Rural Savings
Societies also extend agricultural credit from their own resources, particu-
larly medium-term, for machinery purchase. Most of the short-term financing
to commercial agriculture originates from commercial banks. In contrast to
BCA there exists a dense network of branches of commercial banks, savings
banks, and rural savings societies in the rural areas.
2.18      The evaluation of borrowers' creditworthiness varies according to
the source of agricultural credit. Commercial banks are not entitled to
hold real estate mortgages and lend only on the basis of personal guarantee
for which personal knowledge of the client is essential. BCA, on the other
hand, may take real estate mortgages but appears to avoid them when possible
since, as an official institution, it dislikes the prospect of having to
enforce them eventually. As a consequence BCA often requires a bank guaran-
tee, known as "Aval Bancario", which is provided to farmers by private banks
at a cost of about 2%. BCA officials indicated that chattel mortgage is sel-
dom used because of difficulties in enforcement.
2.19      During recent years there has been a rapid expansion of agricultural
credit in Spain which reflects the sector's need for a capital inflow both to
bring about much needed modernization and to substitute for outmigrating farm
labor. The amount of outstanding agricultural credit at year end about doubl-
ed between 1964 and 1968. During that period, short term credit expanded
approximately from the equivalent of US$ 328 to 457 million while medium-
and long-term credit increased approximately from the equivalent of US$ 357
to 828 million.
Special Livestock Credit Programs
2.20      In 1964, the Ministry of Agriculture started Accion Concertada
de Ganado Vacuno de Carne, a special credit program to promote beef produc-
tion. Unlike the proposed Project, the program covers the entire country and
is not aimed at any particular region. It does not provide technical assis-
tance or guidance on production techniques, but only requires that cattle
produced be sold at weights of 350 kg or more. Accion Concertada provides
credit to finance about 65% of development capital (70% of fixed investment
and 50% of cattle) and 25% of working capital. The rate of interest proper



for loans between Ptas 2.5 and 5 million is 4.5% but the farmer often pays
additional charges of up to 2% to cover costs of a supplementary bank guaran-
tee. (Para. 2.18). During the first four years of the program the equivalent
of only US$ 16 million had been committed against an allocation of about US$
43 million. Many of the difficulties facing Accion Concertada result from
its excessive scope, inadequate administration and the lack of intensive tech-
nical assistance at the grass roots level. Program administration is centraliz-
ed in Madrid and planning and Lending procedures are involved, time consuming
and cumbersome. After a farm plan has been drawn up in the field, it must be
forwarded to the Ministry of Agriculture in Madrid for approval where techni-
cians with limited field knowledge must pass judgement on the soundness of a
farm investment plan and its financial requirements. Moreover, ihi some
instances, after a complete farm plan had been formulated and approved, BCA
evaluates the collateral of the prospective borrower and often finds that
creditworthiness is in some way impaired. Thus, between 1965 and 1968,
slightly less than 1,000 investment plans had actually started, representing
about 35% of approved farm plans and 23% of applications. Although Accion
Concertada provides in princip:Le for terms of up to 10 years, actual loans
have been granted for maximum terms between 5 and 7 years which in most pro-
grams of livestock development is not sufficient to allow investment to
reach full maturity let alone be recovered. An additional problem that may
have discouraged creditworthy and innovating producers from participating in
the program is a lack of a grace period which, in the case of slowly maturing
investments such as in livestock development is essential to prevent placing
excessive stress upon producers' cash balances during the development phase.
Finally, although the requirement that participating producers sell their
cattle at or above 350 kg is consistent with the objectives of Spain's over-
all economic policy, actual meat marketing and import policies make the pro-
duction of veal more profitable than beef (Para 2.24) and may have acted as an
additional disincentive to producers to participate in the program. The Govern-
ment is dissatisfied with the performance of Accion Concertada and looks to
the proposed Bank Project to provide it with a more effective alternative.
2.21      Government is also anxious to stimulate long-term financing to agri-
culture on the part of the private banking sector. In January 1968, a Decree
of the Ministry of Finance authorized private bankers to extend credit to
livestock producers up to a five-year term and the Ministry has generally
authorized longer term loans whenever applications were received. Prior to
the Decree they were not allowed to extend loans beyond 18 months. An impor-
tant objective of this policy was to help commercial banks carry out a pledge
to devote about US$ 30 pillion equivalent of their own resources to the
development of the livestock industry. It was envisaged that private banks
would grant development loans for up to a 5-year term at an interest of 5%
per annum.  Since private banks charge between 7% and 9% for their short-
term lending, they have been reluctant to participate in this program and,
although a number of banks have pledged participation, actual performance
has been disappointing.



-7-
D. Livestock Developmen-t and Marketing Policies
2.22      The 1968-1971 National Development Plan projects increases in liea'
feed grains and fodder production, and reductions in wlheat production.. rn the
case of beef, it proposed a. target of 275,000 m ton for 1971, which is shbox;t
55% above the 1963-1965 average. Achieving this ta,'get den)ends c,n improving
forage production, increasing herd size, raising fertility rates and carcass
we:Lghts, improving health, etc., all of which require substantial investment
in physical facilities and technical assistance. The plan estimated that the
equivalent of about US$ 60 million (13% of planned public agricultural inve:
ment) of domestic funds plus a similar amount in foreign financing would be
needed for livestock development.
2.23      The Comisaria General de Abastecimientos y Transport-es (CAT), an
antonomous Government agency, administers a price support mechanism for beef,
1/ This program seeks the dual objective of guaranteeing a minimum beef
price to producers and to encourage the slaughter of mature animals instead
of veal.  To achieve the latter, the pride support for yearlings was fixed
at 67 Ptas/kg for carcasses between 125 and 180 kg and 73 Ptas/ikg for heavie:
carcasses.  During recent years, however, actual prices have rem.ained consis-
ten~tly above price support levels, making CAT's intervention urnnecessary.
Independently of price sunports, Government has further attempted to promote
production of heavier carcasses by granting a variable price bonus per kilo-
gram of carcass weight, to be paid over and above the selling price. Current
bonuses are 3 Ptas/kg for male yearling carcasses between 180 and 210 kg and
6 Ptas/kg for heavier carcasses. This bonus applies to any producer meeting
weight standards regardless of whether the cattle is sold in the open market
or under price support. Although there are indications that average carcass
weights are increasing, the number of calves slaughtered has i,ncreased fastev
than that of older animals (Annex 2, Appendix 1). Thus this policy has met
only partial success.
2.224     Government, which monopolizes meat imports through CAT, has endeavor--
ed to stabilize consumer meat prices by importing growing quantities of frozen
beef while simultaneously prohibiting the importation of substitutes such as
veal and lamb. Imported beef is sold to licensed retailers at a subsidized
price and the retail price of imported meat is controlled. The retail price
of first quality frozen beef is about 79 Ptas/kg while the retail price
of domestically produced first quality fresh beef is about 125 Ptas/kg. Al-
though the evidence is not conclusive, it is likely that sales of cheap import-
ed beef have tended to keep prices for domestically produced beef relatively
low particularly since the volume of beef imported has increased rapidly and
now nearly equals domestic production of beef (Annex 2). It may, of courses
be argued that fresh and frozen beef are imperfect substitutes, but a suffi-
cient degree of substitutability exists to produce price effects. At the same
time, veal prices have been permitted to reach their own level without compe--
tition from imports. As a result, the price ratio between veal and beef has
been biased in favor of veal and producers have responded by slaughtering grow-
ing quantities of veal despite the fact that under normal conditions it is more
1/   CAT also support lamb prices on a seasonal basis (Annex 2).



-8-
costly to produce veal than beef. During 1968 the average live-weight prices
of veal and beef were 51.3 and 41.6 Ptas/kg respectively and the price differen-
tial between veal and beef increased consistently between 1965 and 1968 (Annex
2, Anpendix 2). The incentives for veal production have curtailed not only
the supply of feeder stock for beef production but also limited the number of
female calves retained for herd expansion.
2.25      Taxes do not seem to constitute a serious disincentive to livestock
production. The basic tax law affecting agriculture establishes as the tax
base the actual or potential earnings derived from the use of land. Producers
with a taxable base between Ptas 5,000 and 100,000 (US$ 70 and US$ 1,500 ap-
proximately), pay 10% tax on one-half of their assessed farm earnings. Pro-
ducers earning an income above Ptas 100,000 pay, in addition, 17.5% tax on
their assessed farm income in excess of Ptas 100,000. Approved farm invest-
ments are deductible against the tax liability. Idle or improperly used land
is subjected to additional charges.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The Project is designed to lead the way to an increase in meat pro-
duction to meet the rapidly increasing; demand by providing credit and tech-
nical assistance to farmers for modernizing livestock production techniques.
This is expected to be the first step of a long term livestock development
program. The major investments to be financed are increases in the number
of breeding cows and on-farm and ranch improvements directed at increasing
the carrying capacity of the land. The Project aims at creating incentives
for participating farmers by introducing substantial reforms in the current
system of meat marketing. The Project also provides for a change in in-
terest rate policy to achieve more effective allocation of resources for
medium- and long-term agricultural investments.
3.02      The Project would be located mainly in the Southwest in the pro-
vinces of Western Andalusia and Extremadura (Map 1). It would provide an
improved pattern of land use in the lands concerned which have become
marginal for cash crop production (wheat) and have been denuded of pigs
(the traditional form of livestock) by African Swine Fever. Production
would be based mainly on grassland and associated forage crops. Special-
ized meat production (beef, lamb and mutton) emphasizing beef on combined
breeding-fattening farms would be encouraged by appropriate credit and
project-related technical services. About 780 dryland farms ranging from
200 to 2,000 ha in size, would be financed. They would average about 500
ha in size (Annex 3). In this zone, too, specialized beef fattening on
irrigated farms would be stimulated on about 110 units averaging about 40
ha (Annex 3). Complementary activities would also be financed in the
Northern Zone, principally in the Province of Santander (Map 1) where milk,
in association with weaner calf production, would be provided for on about
160 farms averaging aboji.t 40 ha in size (ranging from 20 to 150 ha) (Annex
3).  A survey of potentiaL.demand, conducted by Government confirmed that a
sufficienJ n`mberYf' farmers of t4e tXree types would be ready to participate
in the Project.



-9-
B. The Project Areas
Southwest
3.03      This is the main Project area, involving the Provinces of Sevilla,
Cordoba, Cadiz, Huelva 2Cac!eres and Badajoz.  These six provinces cover an
area of about 50,000 km (16% of Spain). Most of the grazing land is held
in relatively large units of 200 ha and up. Contour ranges from flat agri-
cultural and irrigated valley land to rolling dryland hills. Soils are
generally very poor or only of medium fertility. The Zone has the hottest
summer climate in Spain with temperatures going up to 400C (lo4oF) and over
with mean summer temperatures around 26-280C (77-800F). Winters are mild
with temperatures rarely going below 0°C (320F). Rainfall is markedly
seasonal, being virtually confined to September-March. The total rainfall
ranges from 400-600 mm. Drinking water is scarce, but can be obtained from
ponds and wells.
3.04      The dryland country with which much of the Project is concerned
carries a heavy concentration of evergreen oaks, cork oaks, and oli-'e trees
between and under which natural pastures provide autumn and early winter
grazing for sheep and cattle. The herbage becomes virtually useless during
the hot summers.  Stock density is low, averaging one cattle unit per 8-10
ha.  Sheep rather than cattle, along with acorn-fed pigs, are the traditional
livestock, though cattle numbers are now expanding due to the adverse effects
of recent onslaughts of African Swine Fever.
3.05      W4heat has been the traditional crop on cultivable parts of' the dry-
land area, but its production has become largely marginal. Oat and vetch hay
and dryland corn provide summer feed for stock. A wide range of crops is
grown on the irrigated land.
North
3.036     Although the four Provinces of Guipuzcoa, Oviedo, Santander and
Vizcaya (collectively known as Cantabrica) constitute a well defined geo-
graphic and ecologic group, it is proposed, at this stage, to concentrate
development in Santander with only "token" activity in the adjoining pro-
vinces. This coastal strip is admirably adapted to' high production grass-
land farming of a modern type on the New Zealand pattern. The climate is
uniformly mild and frosts are rare. Rainfall is well distributed with a
fall of 800 to 1,400 mm armually. Contour is flat to easy rolling and
soils vary from medium to good fertility. The natural pastures are per-
manent and comprise mainly rye grass, white clover, and bromus species.
Though very productive compared with other ragions of Spain, they are unim-
proved by modern selection and management standards and are capable of much
better performance.
3.07      The Zone is used mainly for dairying, with beef as a by-product.
The area currently carries about 20% of total cattle in Spain. Excessive
land fragmentation is the major problem of the Zone from the viewpoint of
introducing more efficient techniques. Of special significance to the
Spanish economy is the existence within the region of some 2 to 2½2 million
ha of common grazing lands, currently very inefficiently used, but capable of



- 10 -
more intensive development. Tenure problems would have to be solved to permit
full development of these lands, but the Project could set the stage for more
effective land use in the future.
C. Detailed Features
3.o8      In the dryland zone of the Southwest, the key element would be the
exploitation of subterranean clover 1/ as a means of lifting existing natural
pastures of low productivity to a substantially higher level of output. Eco-
logically, the zone is similar to many large areas of Australia where sub-
terranean clover has made possible the dramatic use of otherwise relatively
poor land. Subterranean clover is indigenous to Spain, but so far has not
been exploited in that country except on a limited basis.
3.09      Since subterranean clover has a growth potential restricted to
five to six months and, in Spain, to the autumn-winter-spring period, it
would need to be supplemented by cultivated forage crops, feed grains,
silage and hay to cover the needs of beef cattle over the long dry summer
period (Paras. 3.03-3.04).
3.10      The dryland breeding and fattening farms in the Southwest Project
area would sell both feeder cattle for fattening and fat stock for slaughter.
Fattening on irrigated farms would be based on high quality temporary and
permanent pastures supplemented by appropriate feed grain and forage crops.
Steers for fattening would be purchased as weaners from the dryland farms
financed under the Project in the same area or as two-week old calves from
the North Project Zone. In view of the existing animal health hazards
(Para. 2.1?), assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Project
Authority would cause all cattle on participating farms in the North Project
area to be vaccinated with Strain-19 vaccine against brucellosis, and that
all cattle of participating farmers in both Project areas to be vaccinated
against foot-and-mouth disease.
3.11      In the Project area of the North, where conditions are ideal for
the exploitation of the most productive of temperate zone species of per-
manent pasture plants, the Project would introduce improved varieties and
strains of such species. These are not currently used to any significant
degree. Friesian cattle for milk would be run with weaner calves as a
significant by-product. About 130 farms would be financed in the Santander
Province (Paras. 3.06-3.07), and 30 in adjoining provinces.
3.12      In both Project areas, credit would be provided for the develop-
ment of improved pastures, fencing and associated water supplies, farm ma-
chinery for harvesting and conservation of fodder, livestock buildings, and
1/   The subterranean clover is an annual legume that derives its name from
the fact that its seeds bury themselves underground where they remain
protected from the summer heat until the following growing season.



- 11 -
foIr the purchase of livestock. On-farm development would generally be
spread over a 3-year period. Since the proposed operations involve the
introduction of new production systems, the Project would also provide tech-
nical services that are essential to assist farmers in planning and imple-
menting the changes required in production and management (Para. 3.20-3.24).
Pasture Improvement
3.1.3     Initially, establishment of subterranean clover would be by ortho-
dox techniques of seedbed preparation through cultivation.   During the coursw:
of the Project, however, the feasibility of less costly techniques such as
oversowing, sod-seeding and aerial sowing would be explored for possible use
in the Project.  Initially too, strains of subterranean clover suited to the
different soil types would be imported from Australia, but later, they would
be procured locally. Assurance was obtained during negotiations that the
Ministry of Agriculture would organize local production of subterranean
clover and other pasture seeds required under the Project.
3.14      On both the irrigated farms in the Southwest Project area and the
farms of the North zone, the pasture species used would be perennial rye,
wh-ite and red clover, cocksfoot and fescue. Seeds wou:Ld be imported.
Farlm Construction and Machinery
3.:L5     Fencing would be of five strand 12-gauge galvanized steel wire
with steel posts or local wood posts where the latter are available tit
competitive prices. Water for livestock would be from wells over about
half of the Project area and half from surface ponds. The farm machinery to
be financed would comprise mainly mowers, forage harvesters, side de-
livrery rakes and on larger units, hay balers. Some additional tractors
would be needed, although many farms are already adequately equipped.
In the North, some milking machines would be financed. Trench silos.,
hay barns along with low cost feedlot-type corrals for winter fattening
would also be needed on some farms, and would be financed under the Pro-
ject.
Cattle Procurement
3.16      Local procurement of cattle for the Project area in the Southwest
woild require special organizational arrangements (Annex 4).   There is no
widely established market system for surplus female cattle, except through
the slaughterhouse. The Ministry of Agriculture proposes to organize a
System of Livestock Procurement (SLP) to rescue from such slaughter and
rear to breeding age, heifers of the Retinto, Avilena and Cacerena breeds
for deployment to the Southwestern Project area. To the extent necessary,
Government would absorb transport, transfer and administrative costs asso-
ciated with this rescue operation. A Decree authorizing the operations of
the proposed system has been prepared along with an organization scheme to
cover collection, grazing, sale, and eventual distribution to participating
farmers. These measures would be temporary since the Project would be ex-
pected to lead to the evolution of more normal trading systems. Assurances



- 12 -
were received during negotiations that, by the effective date of the loan,
Government would organize SLP and provide it with sufficient funds to initiate
operations.
D. Cost Estimates
3.17      Total Project cost is estimated at about US$52 million, of which
US$47.0 million would be for on-farm development costs; US$1.4 million to
establish and operate a Livestock Development Agency to provide Project-
related technical services (Paras. 3.20-3.24 and Annex 5); and US$3.6 million
to operate the SLP (Para. 3.16). The foreign exchange component of the
Project is estimated at US5t10 million.  The following table provides a
summary of Project cost.



- 13 -
Pfh.OJl',(,T COST1/
(UISJa '1000,000
(Pts '000,000)         Elqui-valent)     For'ciFn
Local Foreign ToTPal Loca Irore In Total Pc t,an g e
1.  On-l1atich Development Costs
lPasture esta.blishment        330   292'    622   L.7     4. 2   8.9
Pasture consolidation           59    58     117   0.9     o,8    1.7
Fencinf                        311    37     348  L6.6     0.5   l.9
;;aterineg po-ints             106    2?     128   1.5    0.3     1.8
Farm build6inrs                 71     8      79   1.0    0.1     1.1
iachlnir-                     198    10o,.   300   2.8    1.5    L.3
Cattle                      1,295     -    1,295  18.5     -    18.5
.orking Capital               252   15L4     406   3.6    2.2    5.8
Sub-total         2,622    673   3,295  37.l6   9.6   67.0      20
TT. Livestock Development A1,,gency
iKpntriTate exrerts             -     13      13    -     0.2    0.2
Local stal.i                   l49    -       49   0.7      -     0.7
Tnvestment e, exDenses          21    16      35   0.3     0.2    0.5
Trainin, grrants                 3    -        3      2/     2/     2/
Sub-tota.l            73    47     100   1.0    0.6    1 .L. 7  09
IIIT. Svstem of' Livestock
Procurzement
Ir.vestment &T exSpenses        17    -       17   0.2     -      0.2
Interest on revolving funo/     45    -       65    0.7    -      0.7
'T'ransfer costs               190    -      190   2.7     -      2.7
Sub-total            252    -      252   3.6            3.6
IV, Project Cost                 2,947  700     3,647  62.0    10.0  52.0     19
1/ 1figures are rounded
2/ NIeglirible
7/ 6.5. per anrium on a revolving fund of US$2.3 million equi valent to perrmuit cash
payment for the cattle acquired by the SLP.



- 14 -
E. Financing
3.18      The total cost of about US$52 million would be financed as follows:
Items                    Producers    Government     IBRD        Total
(Amt.) (%   (Amnt.) (FU  (Amt.) (T   (Amt.) Y )
--(Ust '000,000 Equivalent)i/…---------
On-Ranch Develonment
Costs                       7.1    15   15.4   33   24.5   52   47.0   100
Livestock Development
Agency                      OA4    29    0.5   35    0.5   36    1.4   100
System of Livestock
Procurement                 -      -     3.6  100     -    -     3.6   100
Project Cost                   7.5    14   19.5   38   25.0   48   52.0   100
1/ Figures are rounded.
3.19      The Bank would make a loan of US$25 million which would serve to
finance the foreign exchange component of US$10 million (Para 3.17) and the
equivalent of US$15 million of local currency expenditures. In order to
build up the herds cattle would be withdrawn from consumption during develop-
ment years (Para 3.16), thereby decreasing domestic contribution to total
availability of veal and beef. 'The additional imports of veal and beef to
offset this decline would require a foreign exchange outlay estimated at
about US$10 million during disbursement period.   Although the procurement of
breeding cattle for the Project would give rise indirectly to expenditures
in foreign exchange, the principal justification for local currency financing
lies in Country economic considerations.
F. Project Authority and Technical Services
3.20      A Project Authority to control the technical and implementation
aspects of the Project would 'be established by the Ministry of Agriculture.
This Authority would be called the Livestock Development Agency and would
be headquartered in the proposed BCA branch in Sevilla (Para. 3.27). It
would consist of a Director, a Technical Director and a staff of selected
local technicians. The Agency would have the general guidance of an ad-
visory committee comprising representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture,
the BCA, the participating private banks, the Head of the SLP, and leading
cattlemen.
3.21      The Agency would operate as a decentralized unit of the Ministry
of Agriculture with responsibility for executing the Project along the follow-
ing lines, that were agreed upon during negotiations between the Government



- 1-5 -
and the Bank.  Tt would be given a hii,h degree bf autoiiorny.  It wolfl.] have
the right to hire and dismiss staff, offer salaries sufficient to ensure
full--time service with the Agency and to provide such staff with transpol-tati.
within any part of the Project Areas.   The proposed staffing is shown in
Arirlex 5. The Director of the Agency would be a Spanish national selected
-orimarily for his administrative capability and acceptable to the Bank.  Ile
would be in charge of the office staff, general administration, and would bE
thE main liai.;on officer between the Agency and the Mirlistry of Agriculture.
3.22      'rhe Technical Director would be recruited regardless of nationali t
and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the J3ank.  He would. have the
sole responsibility for controlling the day-to-day activities of the technic.-
staff.  His main responsibility would be to select technicians, train thesi
to assist farners in the preparation of development plans, to approve techni
aspects of loans by BCA or participating private banks, and to supervise the
exe!cution of approved loans. In order to provide for adequate technical as--
sistance in the North Project area, the Agency would obtain, for at least two
yeeLrs, the services of a Consultant, satisfactory to the Bank, experienced i.D
nodern high-level dairy and beef production on grassland.
3.23      Training fellowships of 6 to 12 months to Australia and/or New
Zealand would be provided under the Project for up to four Spanish tech-
nicians who would be selected by the Technical Director after 12 months
operation of the Project.
3.2h      The financial requirements of the Agency would be provided, undel
the Project during 5 years.  Anticipated costs are shown in Annex 5, Table 2.
Agreement in regard to the establishment and staffing of the Institute along
the lines outlined in this section was reached during negotiations.
&. Terms and Conditions of Lending
and Relending
3.25      The Government would be the borrower and bear the foreign exchange
risk.  The term would be 17 years including a 5 year grace period.   This
%!ould allow the recovery of all sub-loans which would be phased over 3
years with terms of 12 years (Para 3.29); plus a two year allowance for poss
ble delays.  The proposed grace period would 'be equal to the disbursement
period of the Bank loan.
3.2.6     ProJect funds for relending and for the Livestock D)eveloprnent
Agency would be placed in a separate Special Project Fuind (the Fund) in ICP.
Upon the effective date of the Loan, Government would credit the Fund with
suf'ficient resources to enable it to initiate operations.  The Fund would
refinance sub--loans made by participating lending institutions, which would
be entitled to refinance 100% of eligible loans at a rate of 5.75%O per annutma,
I/   A rate of' 5.75% is approximately the blend rate between the yield of
Treasury Bonds (4.5%) and the assumed Bank rate of 6.5%.



- 16 -
The Fund would replenish its resources from the proposed Bank Loan, Government
contributions and repayments of sub-loans. Capital repayments received by
the Fund, but not needed for Bank debt servicing, would be used for additional
relending. Advances for the Livestock Development Agency would be disbursed
by the Fund through a separate account. rnie Ministry of Finance would take
the necessary steps to ensure that funds are available to SLP promptly as
required. During loan negotiations agreement was reached on these issues.
3.27      Sub-loans to producers would be extended by BCA and by participating
commercial and industrial banks, savings banks and rural savings societies.
The participation of the private banking sector will increase the number of
outlets and enable producers to deal with their local banks to whom they are
known, simplifying the evaluation of creditworthiness. The direct participa-
tion of BCA would provide access to the Project to other creditworthy producers
who may not have established lines of credit with private banks. BCA would es-
tablish an adequately staffed branch in the Southwest and assign at least one
credit technician in the North. The Bank received assurances to this effect
during negotiations and also that BCA would include the value of livestock
and equipment provided by the Project in the evaluation of borrowers credit-
worthiness.
3.28      ICP would extend refinancina privileges under the Project to
any eligible bank. Eligibility would be based on (a) past experience and
performance in agricultural lending, (b) financial conditions, (c) managerial
capacity and capability and (d) location of branches in the Project areas.
3.29      Credit to farmers under the scheme would only be extended on the
basis of farm investment plans drawn up or recommended by the Livestock De-
veloPment Agency (para 3.22). Sub-loans would be made for up to 12 years,
including a grace period of approximately three years. These terms would
allow beneficiaries to develop their ranches and service their Project debt
without placing excessive stress on their cash position. (Annex 3, Tables 8,
12 and 17) A 12 year term, however, exceeds current legal limits applying
to commercial banks (para 2.21) and therefore, during negotiations the Bank
received assurances that Government would authorize private lending institu-
tions to extend loans under the Project for the appropriate terms, including
grace periods. The inspection of collateral would be the responsibility of
the lending institution which could accept or reject the sub-borrower on the
ground of creditworthiness, but which could not modify the investment plan.
3.30      The proposed interest rate to participating farmers is 6.5%.    In
addition there would be a technical service fee of 0.5% on their outstanding
balances that would serve to defray part of the costs of the Livestock Devel-
opment Agency. Arriving at an appropriate lending charge to farmers in
Spain is a perplexing problem since several conflictina goals are being
sought: (a) breaking away from the traditional pattern of subsidized official
credit for farmers: (b) providing lending institutions a sufficient margin to
cover administration costs and risk; and (c) offering loan beneficiaries con-
ditions that would not discourage them from participating in the Project.
Medium- and long-term agricultural credit in Spain has been traditionally ex-
tended bv Government Institutions at subsidized rates varying between 2.75%



- 17 -
and 6% (Annex 1). There is very little mediiTm- and long-term lending
to agriculture by commercial banks although they extend short-tern agricul-
tural credit at rates varying between 7% and 9% including all costs. Discus-
sions with producers, Government officials, and barlkers indicated that rates
beyond 7% may discourage producers from participating in a Project which re-
quires the adoption of substantial new production techniques.  Moreover,
active promotion of the Project had already started on the basis of a 6.55
interest rate.  However it was generally agreed that an additional service
charge of 0.5% could be added without adversely affecting demand since such
nom:inal charges are commonly added by Spanish banks. Based. on the blend cost
of :funds from the Government and IBRD of 5.75% and a relending rate to farm-
ers of 6.5% private bankers would receive a margin of 0.75% which they agree
wou:Ld cover administration costs and risk.  They also indicated that at the
preSent they would not be prepared to contribute funds to the Project,
principally because of their uncertainty regarding its results but at later
stages they would be ready to review their position. The difference of
0.5% between total costs to farmers and the interest proper would serve to de-
fray part of the Project's technical services. The lending institution partici-
pating in each particular sub-loan would collect this technical fee which would
be subsequently credited to the proper account in ICP (para. 3.26). Agreement
to -the terms and conditions of lending and rediscounting outlined in this
section was obtained during negotiations.
H. Disbursement and Auditing
3.31      The Bank would rei.rburse 61% of the paper refinanced by the Fund
for eligible loans and 36% of the costs of the Livestock Development Agency,
aga:inst certified statements of disbursements. ICP would maintain the follow-
ing separate Project accounts: (a) On-Ranch Investment; (b) Working Capital;
and (c) Livestock DeveloDment Agency. These accounts would be audited at
specified intervals in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Appropriate
assuirances were obtained during negotiations.
3.32      The Bank's disbursement would be phased as follows:
Y e a r
1     2       3      4      5     Total
On-flanch Development Cost         2.7   6.2      8,6    5.4    1.6    24.5
Livestock Development Agency       0.2   0.2      0.1     -      -      0.5
Total                    2.9   6.4      8.7    5.4    1.6    25.0



- 18 -
I. Procurement
3.33      International competitive bidding is not apopropriate for this
Project because the individual contracts are small and numerous, and the size
and mix of farm investments vary substantially from one another. The goods
and services required for farm development, both locally manufactured and
imported, would be procured through existing commercial channels which would
also provide the service facilities. Most machinery, wire for fencing, and
building materials are manufactured locally and allowing for distribution
costs, are competitive with international prices. An adequate number of
international firms is represented to ensure effective competition in the
procurement of the required imported goods such as seeds and selected types
of machinery and equipment. Applicable import duties are generally below or
in the neighborhood of 15%. The bulk of the pasture seed required during the
first stage of the Project will have to be imported. Imports of pasture seeds
are free of duty and licensing is automatic.
IV. PRICES, MARKETS AND PRODUCERS' BENEFITS
A. Prices and M1arkets
4.01      The growth in per capita income and the rapid expansion of tourism
are causing a rapid increase in the demand for meats (Para. 2.09).   The ad-
ditional output resulting from the Project is expected to reduce the growth
rate of meat imports which currently have reached the equivalent of about
us$ 60 million annually. Market infrastructure is adequate. 'There exists
sufficient slaughterhouses, and marketing services are provided on a reason-
ably competitive basis.  However, current meat importing and marketing
policies have discouraged expansion of output (Para. 2.24).
4.02      Certain modifications in livestock marketing policies are needed
to provide incentives to improve livestock -production 1/ (Annex 2).  Beef
and veal imports would be permitted without quantitative restrictions and
oDened up to the private sector as well as CAT subject only to periodically
adjustable import levies designed to align the prices of domestic and im-
ported carcasses. Although meat import levies would normally set a floor
for domestic meat prices, CAT's price sunport program *ould become effective
in certain cases such as an abnormal liquidation of stock caused by local
drought conditions. In order to prevent disruptions of the market, CAT would
sell meats handled through the price support scheme not below current market
prices.
4.03      The prime objective of the proposed changes in meat import policies
is to achieve an internal veal/beef price ratio that would increase incentives
1/   See IBRD/FAO, The Development of Agriculture in Spain, (November 1966),
pages 118-136.



- 19 -
to ranchets to produce beeF instead of veal.  Higher prices resulting from the
imposition of a tariff would tend to reduce consumption of imported frozen
beef thereby strengthening demand for domestic production and helping to
maintain domestic meat prices at remunerative levels. Simultaneously, im-
ports of veal would help to eliminate excessive premiums now paid for domes-
tically produced veal further affecting the internal beef/veal price ratio in
favour of beef. The higher beef prices coupled with lower veal prices would
encourage producers to retain calves in order to build up the herds thereby
increasing at first the production of beef and subsequently the production
of both beef and veal.  Imports of veal would tend to cancel the upward pres-
sure on the average price level of meat that would arise from higher beef
prices.
4.04      At the time of devaluation in November 1967 a general wage/price
freeze was imposed. As patt of this policy prices of imported meat cannot
be increased before the end of December 1969. It would, therefore, be
difficult for Government to carry out the proposed policy changes immediate-
ly. During negotiations, Government expressed agreement with these policy
changes and its intentions to implement them progressively beginning January
1970.
B. Producers' Benefits
4.05      Borrowing farmers are expected to achieve substantial increments
in disposable income as a result of their participation in the Project. It
is estimated that at full development, after about 10 years, net cash balance
aifter debt service, but before income taxes, may be as much as six times that
before Project investments (see Annex 3). Estimated financial rates of re-
turn on new investment are about 18% in the Southwest and 54% in the North
(Annex 6). These are satisfactory rates of return for a project of this
nature.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
5.01      The following table summarizes important direct benefits attribu-
table to the Project:
Full
Before      After    Development
Item                Unit      Development  7 Years    (Year 12)
(Amt.) (%)l/
Beef Production           '000 Tons        0.5       28.2      34.o   6,800
Mutton & Lamlb Production  '000 Tons       3.8        6.3       6.3     166
Wool Production           '000 Tons        6.o        9.1       9.1     152
Milk Production           Million 1       10.5       27.6      36.5     348
Gross Sales               Mi11ion Ptas   637.0    1,673.0   1,901.0     298
1/' Relative to before development levels.



- 20 -
5.02      The economic rate of return to the overall Project has been estima-
ted at 11% (Annex 6). This calculation was based on the aggregation of the
incremental cashflows from which were deducted transfer payments and the cost
of operating both the Livestock Development Agency and the system of livestock
procurement. In addition, in order to reflect more adequately the contribution
of the Project to the economy in terms of import substitution, the value of
the Project's output was adjusted to expected import prices.l/ This was
deemed necessary due to the fact that the domestic prices of most products
involved in the Project are above world market prices. Thus, the Project's
production of beef was priced at 905 US$/m ton wholesale which is the price
projection to 1975 for Argentine chilled hinds (Smithfield) plus a handling
charge of 20 US$/m ton. This projected price is about 20% below current
prices of domestically produced carcasses. Similarly, lamb was priced at
562 US$/m ton against a current internal price of 957 US$/m ton; maize was
priced at 57 US$i/m ton versus 83 US$/m ton domestic price and wheat at 74
US$/m ton against an internal price of 96 US$/m ton.
5.03      The economic rate of return does not take account of non-quanti-
fiable benefits. The project would be a vehicle for introducing new, superior
livestock production techniques in the Project areas directly through parti-
cipating producers and indirectly by virtue of the demonstration effect. The
in-service training of local technicians as well as the grants proposed for
training abroad would develop domestic expertise? that could bi applied in the
future to operate similar projects throughout the country. The Project is
expected to promote the development of a local market for both breeding beef
cattle and feeder cattle, as well as an expanded[ market for improved pasture
seeds adapted to local conditions. Most importantly, the Project would ini-
tiate major reforms in agricultural credit, meat import and marketing policies
which would stimulate domestic livestock produc'pion and lead to a more ef-
fective allocation of resources for medium- and long-term agricultural in-
vestment throughout the agricultural sector.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) the Ministry of Finance would cause participating lending
institutions to provide credit to borrowers under the Pro-
Ject at a rate of 7% per annum, including all costs.   The
cost to borrowers would consist of an interest rate of
6.5% and a technical service charge of 0.5%. (Para 3.30)
and that
1/   These estimates were derived from recent projections made by the
Commodity Division of the Economics Department.



21 -
(b) meat import and marketing policies woutld be progressively
modified including: (i) the elimination of subsidies on
imported frozen beef; (ii) the gradual opening up of
beef and veal imports to the private sector without
quantitative restrictions and subject only to period-
ically adjustable imnort levies; and (iii) the imnrove-
ment in the efficiency and geographical coverage of
the price support mechanism (Paras. 4.02 - 4.o4).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of loan are that the GIovernment has
taken necessary action satis'actory to the Bank to:
(EL) organize a svstem of livestock nrocurement (Para. 3.16).
(b)  estatlish the Livestock Develonment AMency in Sevilla and
apnoint its Director, T'echnical Director, and Technical
Consultant for the North for a neriof, and, on other terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.   It would grant
authority to the Livestock Development Agency to employ
Project staff adequate in number and competence for appraii--
al and supervision of on-ranch investment plans (Paras. ?.20
- 3.24);
(c)  establish in IC? a Special Project FPund for refinancing
subloans under the Project (Para. 3.26); and
(d)  establish an adequately staffed branch of BCA in Sevil.la
and Drovide at least one credit technician from BCA to
work with the livestock development team in the North
(Para. 3.27).
6.03     'TIhe nroposed Project constituates a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of USo 25 million, for a term of 17 years including a 5 year grace period.






ANNEX 1
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN'STITUTIONS AND POLICIES
I. Agricultural Credit Institutions in Spain
1.        Agricultural credit in Spain is extend6d through various of:ficial,
semi-official, and private institutions, all of which operate under different
policies and with varying loan terms and conditions. In addition to the
regllar lending activities of these institutions, certain special programs
have been established in the agricultural sector which further complicate
the structure of agricultural lending. However, a degree of interdependence
exists between private and official agencies through reserve requirements
and rediscount privileges. In addition, the private financial institutions
are principal buyers of investment bonds (cedulas para inversion) used to
finance, among other activities, the lending operations of official credit
agencies. These bonds have an amortization period of 10 years and bear
interest at 4.5%, and their purchase by commercial banks is compulsory.
Instituto de Credito a Medio y Largo Plazo
2.        Official credit is channeled by the Treasury through the Instituto
de Credito a Medio y Largo Plazo (ICP), which was created by Decree Law in
1962 as a statutory board, responsible to the Ministry of Finance. Its
principal functions are to channel Government funds raised, either domestical-
ly c,r through external borrowing, to official credit institutions and to re-
gulate themi; to grant special investment credits in accordance with economic
developmen,' plens, and to propose to the Ministry of Finance the issuance of
exceptional credits for enterprises warranting special consideration. The
staff of ICP is small and is mainly engaged in establishing appropriations
and budgets and1 in controlling disbursements of funds. The actual lending
operations are conducted by six credit agencies supervised by the ICP, with
agricultural credit extended mainly by the Banco de Credito Agricola (BCA).
Banco de Credito Agricola (BCA)
3.        The Banco de Credito Agricola (BCA) is the agricultural lending arm
of ICP and the principal source of official (public) credit to agriculture.
It wtas established by Decree Law of July 20, 1962, within the framework of
the Banking Reform, to replace the National Service of Agricultural Credit.
4.        The BCA derives its resources from:   a basic equity of Ptas 220
mil:Lion inherited from its predecessor institution (the National Agricultural
Credit Service); appropriations from the ICP, totaling slightly more than
Ptas 22 billion at December 31, 1967; and proceeds of "credit policies" bear-
ing 2% interest (investment certificates) amounting to Ptas 4 billion at the
end of 1967. BCA's balance sheet is reproduced in Appendix 1. Appropria-
tions from ICP are made annually, and BCA must refund all proceeds of loan
repaiyments to the Treasury.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        Although the BCA is, in theory, autonomous, it operates within a
detailed framework of legislative provisions and rules which have been formu-
lated by the Ministry of Finance. Thus, it has little latitude for indepen-
dent policy decisions. Within this regulatory framework, however, the Board
of Directors has the authority to decide on actual lending. The BCA has no
reserves and, except for its equity, no independent existence. It should,
therefore, be properly regarded as an agency of the Treasury rather than a
true agricultural bank.
6.        Organization and Staffing:   The office of BCA is located in Madrid.
It has a staff of about 150 people, about 20 of whom are senior officers in-
volved in its lending operations. In addition, BCA has over 100 correspon-
dents located in the provincial capitals. They are mostly recruited frow.
among the personnel of the Government's agricultural services and work part
time for BCA under contract. According to BCA officials, their principal
fumetion is to appraise applications for direct credit, and to make recommen-
dations concerning the extension of credit. In principle, all aspects of a
comprehensive loan appraisal are covered. Actually, it appears that emphasis
is placed on the assessment of the value of available collaterals with rela-
tive neglect for economic aspects. Little attention is generally given to
increased earning potential from the proposed investment. Furthermore, these
correspondents tend to operate independently, with the result that few stan-
dard criteria concerning appraisal methods have been aDplied. They exercise
no supervision over the use of loan funds.
7.        Lending Policies and Procedures:   BCA primarily extends medium- and
long-term credit in accordance with a detailed set of governmental directives.
For loans up to US$ 10,000 equivalent, it acts as a secondary financial insti-
tution with funds loaned to farmers by local Savings Banks (Cajas de Ahorros)
and Rural Savings Societies (CaJas Rurales).   Loans above US$ 10,000 equivalent
are made directly to the operating entities. BCA also extends credit for
special development purposes, such as for livestock development under Accion
Concertada; through the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacion for land settlement,
farm improvement and agricultural processing industries; and for farm mechan-
ization projects under the Servicio Nacional de Cereales. In addition, BCA
extends various ty_pes of soft, socio-economic credit, including emergency
loans for relief in cases of natural calamities, as well as loans without
specific purposes to prevent usurious interest rates.
8.        BCA extends limited short-term credit directly to farmers.    In addi-
tion, it makes medium-term advances to cooperating credit institutions for fi-
nancing working capital. A revolving fund, totaling US$ 6 million equivalent,
is available for working capital loans.
9.        The time required to obtain a loan directly from BCA varies from one
to three months. After prelimninary review in Madrid, the application is for-
warded to field correspondents who review the purnose of the loan, appraise
the value of the collateral, and assess the character and creditworthiness of
the applicant. The correspondents' report is then worwarded to Madrid where
it is reviewed by BCA's own technicians and lawyers, who recommend action to
the Executive Committee. This Committee meets weekly to make credit decisions



ANNEX 1
Page 3
and to fix loan terms and conditions.   In the case of direct loans, disburse-
ments are made directly to farmers by BCA after the correspondents have evalu-
ated the progress of the investment plan. Advances to other credit institu-
tions are ma(de from Madrid and, in general, BCA does not exercise supervision
over the use of the funds.
10.       Terms and conditions of loans are usually as follows:
General Purpose: Financing new investments.
Amounts: Up to '70% of the estimated cost of the proposed
investment, with a ceiling of US$ 0.6 million equivalent
to an individual borrower. Usually, loans are limited to
50 or 60% of available collateral.
Terms: Maximum of 12 to 14 years, but in practice usually
not over 8 to 10 years.
Interest Rates: 4 - 5% for direct loans and loans through
savings banks and rural cooperative banks, depending on the
size of the loan.. Collaborating institutions retain from
0.5% to 1%, depending on circumstances, as a fee for super-
vision of loan and risk. Including special programs such as
Accion Concertada (paras 22 - 25), BCA's overall lending
rates range from 2.7% to 5.9% with most loans near the lower
figure, (Anpendix 2) so that the average loan return is a-
bout 3.5%.
11,.      Security Requirements:   BCA is entitled to take real estate but
appears to avoid them when ever possible since, as an official institution,
it dislikes the prospect of having to enforce them eventually. As a conse-
quence BCA often requires a bank guarantee known as "Aval Bancario", which
is provided to farmers by private banks at a cost of about 2%. The BcA is
also authorized to accept chattel mortgages, but does not normally do so in
practice. In fact, very little use is made of chattel mortgages on develop-
merit and livestock credit programs by any lending institutions in Spain be-
cause of difficulties in enforcement.
12.       Col:Lateral valuations by BCA appear to be very conservative.   Discus-
sions with producers, local technicians, and local bank officers suggested that,
as a rule, co:Llateral coverage is often several times the amount of the loan.
13.       Lending Operations:   The BCA's lending operations have developed
significantly since it succeeded the National Service of Credit in 1962.
Changes in the loan portfolio and distribution of credit approved by sectors
are given in Appendices 3 and 4 respectively. In number, operations range
frcm 2,000 to 3,000 over recent years. During 1967, the average size loan
extended directly by BCA was Ptas 4.2 million. Direct loans to farmers are
few and are estimated very roughly at about 10% of total.    This enables the
BCA to have a very light field organization and on the whole a small staff.
This might be appropriate for loan appraisal but appears to be inadequate for



ANNEX 1
Page 4
loan supervision. A significant portion of lending operations has socio-
economic purposes and, in some years, emergency loans account for significant
amounts.
14.       Repayment Records:   The BCA has, so far, had an excellent repayment
record. In fact, as a second degree lender, it has less risk of multiple
small arrears than a first degree credit institution. In theory, it might be
confronted with considerable problems in the event of failure of borrowing
institutions but, in practice, this seems unlikely.
15.       Operating Hesults:   Appendix 5 shows operating results for 1967,
which indicates a loss in excess of Ptas 333 million (US$ 5 million equivalent)
under the current criteria for profit calculation set down by ICP. In 1967,
for the first time, and imputed interest rate of 4.75% was charged to official
credit agencies (4.5% cost of investment bonds, and an administrative charge
of 0.25%). Since the average rate of return on loans by BCA is about 3.5%,
the result is a substantial loss for the year. Prior to 1967, the method of
computing returns was to allow a return to BCA of 12% of interest collections,
which in turn was used to pay interest due to the private sector through a
special account in the Bank of Spain. This method of computation would re-
sult in substantially lower onerating losses for BCA, since it obviously does
not consider the cost of credit to the Spanish Government. However, since the
BCA has almost no funds of its own, it merely extends credit to the limit of
its apDroDriations from ICP and reimburses such credits to the extend of its
collections. 'Therefore, the foregoing losses will be actually incurred by the
Treasury, and these losses will not imnair the BCA's resources.
Commercial and Industrial Banks
16.       Commercial bank credit is the principal source of short-term agri-
cultural finance. Commercial bank credit is normally utilized by commercial
farmers who operate on a large enough scale to be financially viable. In the
past, commercial banks have made loans up to 18 months, which shows that they
would not be a suitable channel for loan fund!; under the proposed Project.
Howe-ver, there are two factors which may modii'y these conditions in the future.
First, the Minister of Finance, in 1968, authorized commercial banks to extend
credit to livestock producers f'or ur to a five-year period, and the banks
agreed to begin a Ptas 2 billion lending program to livestock producers from
their own resources (paras 26 - 27). Second, members of the mission held
discussions with a number of commercial bankers who were anxious to partici-
pate in Droject financing, both for short and intermediate-term loans. On the
other hand, industrial banks can extend medium and long-term credit for indus-
try and agriculture, and most of them are affiliated with commercial banks
through common ownership. Therefore, the private banking structure appears
to have the potential of Droviding a relatively wide range of lending services
under the pronosed Project. There exists a dense network of national, regional
and local banks in the Project; area.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
17'.      Interest charges on s,hort-term production credit, excluding fees,
range from 6 to 8%, and fees usually add 1% or more with the result that the
ef'fective intfirest rate is often 7 to 9%. Industrial banks' rates are usually
slightly higher than those of commercial banks.   Commercial banks have also
perticipated in Accion Concertada throuph the BCA.   Thev receive an inte-
rest margin of 0.75% per year for servicing the loains and bearing one-half of
the risk. Commercial bank representatives indicated to the mission that a
spread of 0.75% would be sufficient compensation in the case of this project,
fc,r full risk bearing ar.d for loan adninistration.
18.       The usual credit document is a note usually issued for 90 days to
6 months, but renewable. Commercial banks are not entitled to hold real
estate mortgages and lend only on the basis of personal guarantee for which
personal knowledge of the client is essential.
Savings Banks and Rural Savings Societies
19.       Savings Banks (Cajas de Ahorros:) and Rural Savings Societies (Cajas
Rurales) also provide substantial credit for agriculture in the Project area.
For exampDle, the Caja de Ahorros San Fernando has 129 branches in Sevilla and
Hue-lva, with 240,000 accounts and deposits in excess of US$ 43 million equiva-
lent. Savings Banks are required by the Ministry of Finance to devote 13% of
their lending to agriculture. The most important types of agricultural credit
is medium-term (4 to 5 years) credit for machinery purchase up to a limit of
Ptas 5 million per borrower. Interest rates range from 5.5 to 6%. Most of
the loans are small.
20.       In addition to lending their own funds, Savings Banks and Rural
Savings Societies operate as agents for the BCA for loans up to Ptas 750,000.
Normally, in such loans, the Caja bears full risk for a loan fee of 1%. For
loans exceeding this amount, the prospective borrower must go directly to
BCA.
Other Agencies Extending Agricultural Credit
21.       Agricultural credit is also extended by other agencies, including
the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacion, the Servicio de Ordenacion Rural y
Concentracion Parcelaria, and the various nrice supportina agencies, such as
the Servicio Nacional de Cereales. Much of this type of credit originates
in the BCA but is extended to farmers by the agency involved.
Special Agricultural Credit Programs
22.       Accion Concertada:   The Accion Concertada program for beef
production was introduced in 1964 and has now been in operation for about four
years. Basically, this program is concerned with the provision of credit for
beef production under approved conditions. Participants may be individual
farmers, syndical groups, associations, corporations or cooperatives, operat-
ing either production units or general slaughterhouses with refrigerated fa-
cilities.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
23.       Agreements are entered into between the Government and the producer
for a minimum period of five years and credit may be extended on all aspects of
the enterprise having a direct bearing on beef production, including buildings
and facilities, machinery and the purchase of calves. Credit is made available
for up to 70% of the investment in buildings, facilities, and equiDment; 50% of
investment in cattle; and 25% f'or working capital. Investments in buildings,
facilities, and equipment are subsidized to the extent of 10% of the cost.
Rates of interest are 4Z for credit of less than Ptas 2.5 million (US$ 36.000
equivalent), 4.5% for credit of Ptas 2.5 to Ptas 5 million (Us$ 36,ooo to
US$ 70,000), and 5% for more than Ptas 5 million (US$ 70,000 equivalent). Loans
for investments in fixed canital are repayable over 10 years, for cattle
purchases over four years, and for working capital over one year, without any
grace periods.
24.       In order to particiDate in the program, each producer is supposed to
follow a predetermined system of husbandry, and in principle the enterprise is
subject to periodical inspection during the term of the loan. During the en-
tire period of the agreement, the mininum permissible weight at sale or slaugh-
ter of animals is 350 kg (liveweight), except for animals used as breeders.
'he producer is free to sell his animals to any purchaser provided they fulfil
the foregoing requirements and are subject to the same official price guaran-
tees as the producer of other livestock enterDrises.
25.       The program has been somewhat less than a complete success, with
only about one-third the authorized credit actually granted. The planning and
lending procedures are involved, time consuming and cumbersome. Furthermore,
there has apparently been a lack of coordination between the Ministry of Agri-
culture, which draws un farm plans, and BCA, which evaluates the creditworthi-
ness of prospective borrowers.   Thus, after a comDlete farm plan has been for-
rnulated, BCA finds that creditworthiness is in some way impaired.   In addition,
it appears that no definite guidelines have been set forth so that producers
can be provided with programs for livestock imnrovement.    The Government appears
dissatisfied with the performance of Accion Concertada and looks to the pro-
posed Bank Project to Drovide it with a more effective alternative.
26.       Special Commercial B aking Credits:   The Decision (Order) of January
19, 1968, of the Minister of Finance, authorizing private bankers to extend
credits to livestock producers for longer than 18 month periods (para 16) was
also made to materialize a pledge made by the commercial banks to devote Ptas
2 billion (US$ 29 million equivalent) of their resouces to development of the
livestock industry.
27.       Under the provisions of the Decision, ICP will authorize the pri-
vate banks and the Banco Exterior to extend credit to the extent of the amounts
they would assign to development and improvement of the cattle industry, sub-
ject to a favorable report of the Banco de Espana. Credits made would have
the following characteristics:
Purposes: Acquisition of breeding stock, construction of stables,
silcs and other facilities necessar,r to livestock farms and, when
required, for working capital up to an amount of 30% of the total
credits.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Terms: From 18 months to five years.
Interest Rates:  Maximum interest of 5% per annum, including any
commission.
At the end of 1968 only about Ptas 400 million (Us$ 6 million equivalent)
had been committed under this program.
II. Volume of Agricultural Lending
28.       BCA, Savings Banks and Rural Savings Societies are the principal
source of intermediate- and long-term lending to agriculture, while the commer-
cial banking sector is the principal source of short term financing. During
recent years there has been a rapid expansion of all types of agriculture
credit in Spain, reflecting the sector's need for capital inflow both to bring
about much needed modernization and to substitute for outmigrating farm labor.
The amount of total agricultural credit at year end about doubled between 1964
and 1968. During that period, short-term credit expanded approximately from
Ptas 23.0 to 34.3 billion (from about US$ 328 to 457 million equivalent)
while medium- and long-term credit increased approximately from Ptas 24.2 to
58.2 billion (from about US$ 357 to 828 million equivalent). The following
table provides a breakdown of outstanding agricultural credit at the end of
the year by main sources:



ANNEX 1
Page 8
OUTS'TANDING AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AT YEAR END BY PRINCIPAL SOURCE
1964   1965   1966  1967   19681'
........ (billion Pesetas).
I.   SHORT TERM
A. Private Sector
Commercial and Industrial Banks    22.7   25.1  26.6   29.0   29.9
Savings Banks and Rural
Savings Societies                  .3    1.4    2.2   3.4    3.4
Sub-total                          23.0   26.5  28.8   32.4   33.3
B. Banco de Credito Agricola             -      .4    .2     .9    1.0
C. Total Short Term                    23.0   26.9  29.0   33.3   34.3
II. MEDIUM AND LONG TERM
A. Private Sector
Commercial and Industrial Banks      .2    .6     .8    1.1    1.6
Savings Banks and Rural
Savings Societies                10.7   13.7  16.0   21.5   26.5
Sub-total                          10.9   14.3  16.8   22.6   28.1
B. Banco de Credito Agricola           13.3   19.1  23.1   26.0   30.1
C. Total Medium and Long Term          24.2   33.4  39.9   48.6   58.2
III. TOTAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT              47.2  60.3   68.9   81.9   92.5
1/   Sentember 1968; tentative figures.
Source:   Bank of Spain



SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco de Credito A   cola
Balance Sheet at December 31 1967
(Puts M)
ASS3.TS                                                      LIABILITIES
Treasury                                     94.6           Capital                                         220.0
Cash                           .8
Bank of Spain                 93.8                        Instituto de Credito a medio
y largo plazos  Grants                     22,211.8
Securities                                   4.7
Loans from Banks and Cajas
Public Funds                  h.7                           de Ahorro                                   h,ooo.o
Loans and Discounts                      27,015.3
Credits                   29,512.8                        Creditors:                                       L8.
Less:  Credits not                                          Withholdings for loan expenses     3.3
yet used          _ 2,609.5
Amortizations due                                           Interests of loan from banks
for collection             93.8                             and Cajas de Ahorro             40.3
Interests due for
collection                  18.2                          Various (Creditors)                1.5
Other Debt Accounts                         90.4            Otherst                                           5.9
Delinquencies                 83.4                          Pending applications               3.2
Loans for Housing              6.2
other debtors                   .8                          Various                            2.7
Fixed Assets                                11.8
Institute: Imputed interests on
Materials                     11.8                                    grants                              967.2
Real Estate                   29.2
Collateral assigned             .8
Others                                   -127.1
Various (transfers)       -  127.1
Fiscal Year Loss                           333.3
TOTAL ASSETS                         27,h53.0                   TOTAL LIABILITIES                     27,453.0
Source: Banco de Credito Agricola
- :3
x' 






ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 2
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Interest Rates in Spain
Percent
Private Banks
Savings Accounts
up to 3 months                                     2.5
3- 6 months                                     3.5
up to 1 year or _ re                               4.0
more than 2 years_/                                5.0
2/
Loans;
With personal guarantees                         6.0-7.5
Commercial discounts                               5.5
Other credits                                    5.5-6.5
Cajas de Ahorro
(Same as commercial
Savings Accounts                                   banks)
Agricultural loans:
Working Capital                                    5.5
Investments                                     5.75-6.o
BCA
Loans through collaborating agencies               4.0_5.0
Accion Concertada                                  3.5-5.0
Direct credits -
To cooperatives                                    2.75
Direct farm loans-
from 750,000 - 2.5 million Ptas                  4.0
2.5 - 5.0    "      n                   4.5
5.0 - 40                                5.0
1/ Industrial banks only
l/ Excluding loan fees and cost of guarantees
Source:     ICP and Banco de Espana






ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 3
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco de Credito Agricola
Detail of Loan Portfolio as of December 31, 1964-1967
1964~     1965      1966      1967    1968/
.*.*.*.***., (Ptas million) ..........
Total credits approved           15,967    22,363    26,003    29,513
Credits not disbursed
at end of year                  2,645     2,838     2,668     2,608
Net credits disbursed            13,322    19,525    23,335    26,905
Instalments fallen due                                             94
Interest fallen due                              )      339        18
Loans under judicial action                              33        83
Guarantees
Housing loam                          2         2         4         6
Various debtors                                                     1
Total Portfolio                  13,324    19,527    23,711    27,107   31,000
Source:   Banco de Credito Agricola
1/ September 1968, tentative figure.






ANNEX 1
APPENDIX h
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco de Credito AAricola
Distribution of Credit approved by Purpose - 1964-1967
1964     1965     1966     1967
....... (Ptas million) ......
Working Capital
Socio-economic                    3,259    4,1417   2,984    2,677
Guaranteed by agricultural
deposits                         122       58       15        7
On-farm Development
Machinery and livestock           1,656    1,798    2,027    2,949
Irrigation                          614      870     686      456
Farm buildings                      268      392     508       494
Farm improvements                   105     105       72      103
Processing                          1,366   1,631    2,408    1,895
Various
Emergency                           175    1,1451     533      54
Local infrastructure                850    1,200   1,200    1,200
Others                                3      -        250     400
Total.                        8,418   11,922   10,683  10,235
Source: Banco de Credito Agricola, Memoria de Actividades 1966 and 1967






ANNEX 1
APPENDIx 5
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco de Credito Agricola
Profit and Loss Statement including imputed Interest on Grants, 1967
(Ptas M)
INCOME                                                                  762.1
Interest Income                                761.9
Other Income                                      .2
EXPENSES                                                                128.2
Personnel                                       44.1
Materials                                        2.3
General Services                                 2.3
Subsidies                                         .1
Private Financing Charges                       79.4
Other Financial Expenses                        (1)
Credit losses                                   (1)
NET OPERATING INCOME                                                    633.9
SXPENSES - Imputed interest on grants            967.2
NET INCOME                                                             - 333,3
(1) Negligible
Source: Ministerio de Hacienda, Instituto de Credito a Medio y Largo Plazo, Banco
de Credito Agricola, Memoria de Actividades 1967    (Madrid, 1968)






ANNEX 2
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GOVERNMENT POLICIES RELATED TO PROIUCTION,
PRICING AND MARKETING OF LIVESTOCK
Cattle Inventory and Slaughter in Spain
1.        Cattle numbers have increased about 10 since 1962, while slaughter
numbers have increased by nearly 20%.   Over half the total animals marketed
are calves (weighing less than 125 kg).   Calf slaughter has increased great-
ly since 1961, both in terms of numbers and as a percentage of total slaugh-
ter (Appendix 1). The number of young animals (one to two years, and weigh-
ing more than 125 kg) has declined slightly, and slaughter of older animals
has remained relatively constant (although declining as a percentage of the
total).
2.        About one-half of Spain's total cattle inventory is located in
the northern tier of provinces, comprised of Galicia, Vascongadas, and
Asturias-Santander.
Relative Prices of Beef and Veal
3.        In spite of the large calf slaughter relative to slaughter of
heavier animals, prices for veal calves have consistently remained well
above prices for beef animals. In fact, the average margin has increased
over the past few years (Appendix 2), although it apparently narrowed
slightly during the first half of 1968. Average prices for calves have
trended upward since the second half of 1965, while prices for yearlings
have remained relatively constant, and prices for older cattle have shown
a slight downward trend (Appendix 3). Although there have been marked price
fluctuations, no real seasonal price movements are apparent. With a few
notable exceptions, veal and beef prices have tended to move together.
Lamb and Mutton Production and Pricing
4.        The major alternative livestock enterprise to heef cattle in the
dryland pasture region of the Southwest is sheep production.    Spain's sheep
inventory was about 16.6 million in 1967. It had declined about six percent
since 1964. Production, however, has remained roughly constant. Wool pro-
duction has decreased slowly during the past four years, following a sharp
drop in output after 1958.
5.        Prices of lamb (lechal 1/ and pascual 2/) have shown much greater
1/   One month old.
2/   Nine months old.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
seasonal variation than have beef prices (Appendix 4). However, lamb prices
have trended strongly upvard during recent years. Much of the seasonal
nrice variation is due to the seasonal nature of natural pastures in Spain,
which force lamb sales at relatively low prices during the dry season in
late spring, summer and early fall. The upward trend in prices is due to
strong consumer demand for lamb, and the fact that Soanish oroducers operate
in a completely protected market with no imports permitted. There exists
a price guarantee of Ptas 60 per kg carcass weight for lamb carcasses weigh-
ing under 17 kg that applies between April and September and a guarantee of
Ptas 65 from October through December. Prices have consistently been above
these levels in recent years.
Meat Marketing Channels and Facilities
6.        Farmers' cattle and other livestock are Durchased:
(a) in some cities, by meat wholesalers who slaughter
and process livestock at municinal abattoirs;
(b)  for other cities such as Madrid, by "tratantes"
(dealers), who consign the livestock to "entra-
dores" who on behalf of the tratantes slaughter
and process the livestock at the municipal
abattoirs: and
(c) by freezing companies which slaughter and process
livestock through their own Dlants.
All of these -- the entradores, the meat wholesalers, and the freezing com-
panies -- sell and distribute the processed meat to meat retailers. Appen-
dix 5 presents an outline of the principal channels of beef marketing.
Entradores, meat wholesalers and meat retailers, are required to obtain
from their local municipal authorities licenses to operate. Most meat
retailers are not licenses to sell frozen meat which is sold by retailers
who have obtained special licenses from the local municipalities.
7.        The establishment of a municiDal abbattoir by a municipality re-
quires a license from the Ministry of the Interior; and the establishment
of a freezing company requires a license from the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Ministry of the Interior (which is responsible for hygiene). Muni-
cipal abattoirs do not generally have freezing and cold storage facilities,
although these are available at the Madridi abattoir. There are also co-
operatives which, on behalf of their farmer members, process livestock and
sell the meat therefrom to meat retailers.   These cooperatives have freez-
ing and cold storage facilities.
8.        Appendix 6 presents information on the probable unit costs of
transporting and marketing a load of 15 yearling steers, showing margins
of the various agents. Charges approximate Ptas 10 per kg carcass
weight (50 percent dressing percentage). In addition, meat retailers



ANNEX 2
Page 3
normatlly receive a margin of about 25% of the cost price. Framers, as a
rule., receive about 55% to 60% of the retailers price to consumers. The
data suggests that, althbugh the marketing cycle may. in some case be
fairly complex, charges at the various stages are not out of line and costs
of marketing are reasonable. It may be added that Government collects a
turnover tax of 2.7% on every occasion that meat carcasses or cuts are
sold., The tax is not charged on the sale of livestock.
9.        Meat importing is done solely by the Comisaria de Abastecimientos
y Transportes (CAT) under reciprocal trade agreements with Governments of
meat exporting countries.   These agreements are of two types:   (a) the
usuaL form of bilateral trade agreemert which provided for money payments
for each transaction; and (b) barter agreements where only goods are ex-
changed. Imported frozen beef is purchased directly from CAT by selected
meat retailers who have special licenses to buy and sell frozen meat. CAT
sells imported chilled beef to the Retail Butchers Association which then
distributes the meat to selected retailer member'(Appendix 5). Appendix 7
shows imports of chilled and frozen beef into Spain from 1961 through 1968.
Frozen beef has been the principal import since 1964.
Beef Price Policies
10.       CAT supports domestic beef prices for earc'asses in exces,s of 125
kg according to the following schedule:
Offals
Carcass        Support                    Including
Weight          Price          Bonus        Hides
Tkg)           - - - (Pts/kg Carcass Weight) -   -
Yearlings                1257180          67              -            6
Male Yearlings          above 180         73              3            5
Male Yearlings          above 210         73              6            5
Cows                    above 175         50              -            4
Support prices are based on carcass weight so that payments are not made
until after slaughter and grading take place.
11.       Support payments are not made to farmers, but to the owner of the
animals at time of deliverly to the abattoir. Thus, it is uncertain to what
extend the farmers would benefit by price support operations if there are
middlemen between farm level and slaughter. In addition, price supports
are not uniformly applicable throughout the country. There is no auto-
matic provision for purchasing meat in individual cases. Rather, an en-



ANNEX 2
Page 4
tire area or region must be declared as one in which cattle prices are
potentially below support levels. Only then does CAT stand ready to buy
at support prices in selectedl abattoirs, with which CAT has contracts,
after a rather involved process which is both administratively cumbersome
and time-consuming. Furthermore, the seller may wait for as long as
several months to receive payment from CAT. Therefore, it is possible that
there could be numerous sales which are not subject to price supports in
areas which have not been designated as requiring assistance.
12.       To date, CAT's beef price support operations have been small,
mostly because market prices have remained consistently above price support.
Only 172 head of cattle were purchased in 1967 and 2,200 to mid-1968. CAT
may conceivably avoid support operations as much as possible, since it makes
relatively large losses on each kg of domestic beef it handles. 1/
13.       Argentina is by far the major supplier of imported beef to Spain.
Current prices quoted for Argentine frozen beef are US$ 510 per m ton C.I.F.
or Ptas 35.70 per kg. Interior distribution costs are estimated by CAT to
equal Ptas 9.30 per kg giving total expenses of Ptas 45.0 per kg. However,
in an attempt to keep retail prices low, CAT sells peef to retailers at Ptas
40.0, losing Ptas 5 per kg on each transaction. Retail markups for imported
beef are also controlled, with the result that although there is no price
control on domestic production, prices are indirectly controlled through-
controlled import prices. Similar arrangements prevail for imported chilled
beef with the result that CAT loses about Ptas 4-5 per kg per sale.    During
1968 the retail price of first qualities fresh beef, imported chilled and
imported frozen beef was Ptas 125, 110 and 79 respectively.
14.       The losses arising from handling both domestic and imported beef
are partially the result of an attempt to keep domestic prices from rising
as a result of the 1967 devaLuation, while at the same time honoring, in
the case of imports, previously arranged import commitments at the previous
exchange rate. However, a recent Decree limits increases in consumer food
prices to two percent per year or less until the end of 1969.    The Government
has decided to reduce imports of chilled beef in favour of frozen beef to
facilitate storage and handling. This should strengthen prices of domestic
beef since frozen beef i's a less acceptable substitute than chilled beef.
15.       Although no definite evidence could be obtained, it is likely
that subsidized sales of imported refrigerated and frozen beef would tend
to depress market prices for domestically produced beef. Total slaughter
of domestic cattle (yearlings and older) was about 116,000 tons in 1967,
while imports totaled over 1114, 000 tons. It may, of course, be argued
that fresh and frozen beef are imperfect substitutes, although most probably
a substantial degree of substitutability exists with consequent price ef-
fects.
1/   CAT sells beef to processers at Ptas 56 per kg.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
16.       The present system for marketing meat products has resulted in
a combination of a relatively competitive marketing system for domestically
produced meat and a highly regimented, heavily subsidized system of meat
imports. This has ensured low prices to consumers, and coupled with the
rise in consumer incomes which has taken place over the past years, has
stimulated meat consumption greatly. Low relative beef prices have reduced
the incentives for domestic beef production, while creating further pressure
to increase beef imports.
Recommendations on Livestock Production and Marketing, Policies
17.       The mission believes that certain modifications in policies could
be made to improve livestock production and marketing efficiency, while at
the same time, increasing producer incentives to produce beef. The follow-
ing points are considered to be among the most important policy recommenda-
tions:
(a)   Meat import privileges should be extended to the
private sector. Imports of veal should be allowed
on a sufficient scale to give consumers an added
choice of meat. Such imports would prevent further
widening of the gap between veal and beef prices.
Thus, better pricing relationships may prevail.
(b)   Periodically adjustable import levies for meats
should be made effective. A variable levy
such as is used by the EEC is not considered
necessary, since meat importing is performed under
long-term contract. Instead, a fixed duty, which
can be adjusted when necessary is deemed adequate.
At any rate, duties should be sufficiently great
to maintain prices of domestic meats at remunerative
levels.
(c)   The establishment of adequate meat import levies
would supersede CAT's traditional activities in
support of the average price levels of meats.
CAT's price support intervention, however, will
remain essential in instances when accidental
meat marketing problems develop such as an ab-
normal liquidations of stock caused by a drought.
In such cases CAT's price support operations
would become effective. CAT should therefore
provide a mechanism whereby any producer can
deliver beef to an abattoir, and receive prompt
payment at the time of slaughter and grading.
Furthermore, the price at which beef is sold out
of the abattoir under the price support scheme
should not be below prevailing market prices.






ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
S P A I N
LIVESTOCK D-EI-LOPMEINT PROJECT
CATTLE SLAUGHTE1L BY T-YPE IN SPAIN
1961-1968
(t6oo head)
Type               1961     1962     1963    1964     1965     1966     1967    1968
Calves              616     574      615      765      605      720      798
% of total         50       51       52      50       53       58       59
Young animals       341      306      326     407      284      294      291
% of total         28       27      28       27       25       24       22
Old animals         274      241     240      346      253      228      259
of total           22       22       20      23       22       18       19
Total head        1,231    1,121   1,181    1,518    1,142    1,243    1,348
Total tonnage       178      163      172      225     177      198      215     243
(0ccO) l/
1/ Carc:ass -weight
SOURCE: 1inisterio de Agricultura.






ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 2
S P A I N
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICES OF BEELF AND VEAL IN SPAIN
(Ptas/kg Liveweight)
1965     1966     1967     1968
Veal
Average                 47.4     48.5     50.3     51.3
High                    49.8     51.4     51.5     54.4
Low                    141.1     45.2     48.5     48.2
Deviation                8.7      6.2      3.0      6.2
2/
Beef
Average                 40.4     41.1     41.0     41.6
High                    42.7     43.4     42.3    44.2
Low                     35.0     39.2     38.4    40.4
Deviation                7.7      4.2      3.9     4.2
Price Differentials
Average                  7.0      7.4      9.3      9.7
High                     7.1      8.o      9.2    10.2
Lo*t7                    6.1      6.o     10.1     7.8
1/ Calves to 5 months
2/ Bee'^ under 2 years
SOURCE: Ministerio de Agricultura, Secretaria General Tecnica,
La Agricultura Espanola en 1966, (Madrid, Enero 1967),
p 55. Rinisterio de Agricultura, Secretaria General
Tecnica, La &ricultura Espanola en 1967 (Iladrid, Enero
1968), p 59 and La Agricultura Espanola en 1968.






ANNEX 2
APPEIIDIX 3
S P A I N
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
MNNTHLY CATTLE LIVEWEIGHT PRICES 1965-1967
-Ve a 1-           -      ----S t e e r s     ----  -C u 1 1 C o w s--
1965    1966    1967      1965    1966    1967      1965     1966    1967
* . *  0 a *  * . e * * *  (Pts/kg l1veweight) .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . .  
January         41.16   47.92   48.52     34.99   43.36   38.44     29.31    34.20   29.°9
February        43.94   48.87   49.28     37.40   42.77   39.87     29.74    33.57   29.36
March           45.74   47.31   50.11     39.13   41.54   40.54     32.86    32.45   30.99
April           48.40   47.73   50.83     40.53   41.40   40.52      33.91   31.90   30.87
s4ay            49.85   47.80   50.78     41.16   40.97   42.16      33.73   31.83   30.34
June            48.74   45.25   51.01     40.44   40.96   41.74     33.29    31.40   30.49
July            48.51   48.16   49.87     41.28   41.01   40.74     32.44    32.16   29.38
August          48.05   49.63   49.00     41.37   41.31   41.08     32.09    31.87   29.87
September       48.82   49.86   50.51     41.00   40.44   41.34     32.95   30.54    30.25
October         49.16   48.09   51.28     41.49   39.16   41.44     33.37    29.93   30.56
November        48.45   51.37   51.15     42.48   41.53   41.33     34.29    30.95   30.52
December        47.37   49.41   51.52     42.74   38.39   42.35     33.59   28.51    31.86
Average         47.41   48.47   50.34     40.37   41.10   41.00      32.65   31.64   30.40
1/ 5 months old
2/ 2 years old
SOURMCE:  I4,nisterio de Agricultura, Secretaria General Tecnica, La Agricultura Espanola
1966 and 1967.






ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 4
S P A I N
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONTIHY ILA4B AND MUTTON LIVEWEIGHT PRICE, 1965-1967
1/                          2/
---Lamb (Lechal)-----     ----Lamb (Pascual)-        ------utton-----_
_196    1966    1967      1965    1966    1967      1965    1966    1967
* . .    .  e a .  a .  a * e(Pts/kg liveweight). .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  . 
January         46.48   55.07   53.06     34.52   41.83   39.48     22.40   28.75   25.48
February        47.68   50.74   49.92     36.64   38.89   38.37     23.98   27.11   24.68
IIarch          46.72   49.09   51.60     36.37   37.08   39.51     23.96   25.47   25.08
April           45.73   47.01   53.57     34.53   34.80   40.63     23.64   25.29   24.33
I-lay           45.34   48.13   54.21     33.57   35.10   40.47     23.34   24.60   24h53
June            44.63   47.88   51.21     33.76   36.03   39.47     23.17   24.44   24.18
July            45.49   50.10   50.53     34.14   36.58   38.63     23.12   24.65   22.65
August          46.55   51.40   52.74     34.81   37.50   38.36     22.67   24.33   23.89
September       49.81   53.20   54.54     35.75   37.82   39.39     23.53   25.05   24.27
October         50.31   55.38   57.43     37.37   40.67   41.34     24.06   25.15   23.07
November        54.10   56.63   60.32     40.07   41.10   43.14     26.39   25.41   23.51
December        56-75   54@8    60.46     41492   40.65   42.86     26.84   25.09   23.J5
Avera-e         48.32   51.50   54.15     36.12   38.16   40.14     23.93   25.52   24.10
1/ 1 month old
2/ 9 months old
SOU?t1B: Ministerio de Agricultura, Secretaria General Tecnica, Ia Agricultura Espanola
1966 and 1967.






ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 5
SPAIN: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OUTLINE OF PRINCIPAL BEEF MARKETING CHANNELS
Percentage
A. RURAL LIVE CATTLE MARKET                                                                                 20
I. PRODUCER!'               "TRATANTE"                   Municipal Abattoir              CONSUMER        10
_                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~BUTCHER RETAILER       .
Municipol Abottoir
2.   PRODUCER                                                                             CONSUMER       10
BUTCHER RETAILER
B. URBAN LIVE CATTLE MARKET                                                                                 18
nduncio   Municipal Beef 
I.  PRODUCER   -->"TRATANTE"          Abattirl  Wholesale Market  -1 BUT'CHER RETAILER   CONSUMER        1 2
Municipal dMunicipal Be 
2.   PRODUCER       Travelling  Commission    |Abattir   Wholesale Market    BUTCHER      CONSUMER        6
C. URBAN BEEF MARKET                                                                                        14
l                              l    n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipol Beefn 
I.  PRODUCER         Commission Man      Packing       Wholesale Market    BUTCHER        ONSUMER |
2.   PRODUCER                                                                             COcil  Mtun.c.,: ~k,-NSUMER  9
{    <      | ~~~~Commission Man'|  Houre |         elr        |   {RETAILER 
D. MARKET FOR PROCESSED BEEF                                                                                 5
I.  PRODUCER           Commission Ma        ROESO-alsan                   RETAILER       CONSUMER         2
2.   PRODUCER                               PROCESSOR        Salesman      RETAILER       CONSUMER         3
E. MARKET FOR IMPORTED BEEF                                                                                 30
Liesed Cold Store     eolBthr    soi
.                           Ra    uc    AsiiBUTCHER RETAIL                               CONSUMER        21 
CAT
Liced  Cold Stnre
2.                          Meat Processors Association -- 0PROCESSOR  BUTCHER RETAILER   CONSUMER        9
CATH
F. OTHER MARKETS                                                                                            13
ALL MARKETS                                                                                               0
i/ Capital letters indicate owner of the goods.
L Agent who, on behalf of the Dealer, slaughters ond processes livestock at the abattoirs.
Small letters outside a square indicate an institution.
./ Small letters within a square indicate the agent that provides the service.
IBRD-4277






ANNEX 2
APPENIIX 6
S P A I N
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIMET PROJECT
EXPE2NSES FROMI AN ENTfY OF 15 YEARLING CALVES
OF 200 KILOGRAMS CARCASS WEIGHT
TRANiSPORTED 300 KILOMETERS TO A SLAUGHTERHOUSE
Variable      Fixed        Total
Expenses     Expenses     Expenses
(           (Pts/kg liveweight)
Dealer's commission               3.0 eO                      --
Shrinkage                         5.0
Transportation
(300 kn. @ Pta loOO/nt/km)       -            o.600        --
Insurance                          -          0.02            --
Certification                      -          0.025           --
Feed and yardage                   -          o.02            --
Inspection and care                -          Oel50 
Slaughter                          -            015           --
Storage                            -          0.035           --
"Entradorts" camnission          15            --           __
Other                              -          0.020           --
Total                             9.5         1.120           --
Fixed expenses                     -            --
Variabl expenses equivalent 1/      _            __          1.12
Total Expenses                                              4 --  j.92
1/ Assumiang a price Pts 40/liveweight
SOURCE: Ministry of Agriculture






ANNEX 2
APPENDIX: 7
S P A I N
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPI1ENT PROJECT
BEF IivOfTS, 1961-1968
1961     1962     1963    196h     1965     1966      1967     1968
e* * . * * * .  a *  a *( 000 tons) ... . . . . . . . . .a 
Chilled      -      22.0     67.8      7.6     12.7     14.7     17.0      12.8
Frozen      3.0      20.5    1-5.     11.6     36.8     65.1     _L2      90.2
Total       3.0      42.5    83.3     19.2     49.5     79.8     101.9   103.1
SOURE: Anuario de Comercio Exterior 1961, 1962, 1963 and 1964 and
Direccion General de Ganaderia.






SPAIh
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
-- .SCAL ANOD2^CA     CEFCDT
CATESORY                 UNIT       Before                  _T                                        A R S
Development   1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9        10        11         12
500-HA DRTLAIID RANCHES - SOUTnWEST
Cattle
Weaning rate              %          n.../       n.a.      65        70       75        80       80        s0       80        80        B0        80         OD
Culling rate:
a) Cws                    %          n.a.        n.a.      10        10       12        15       15        15       15        15        15        15         15
b) Bulle                  %          n.a.         15       15        15       15        15       15        15       15        15        15        15         15
Mstality:
a) Heifers 8-20 mos.      %          n.a.          4        3         2        2         2        2         2        2         2         2          2         2
b) Steers 8-20 m.         %          n.a.        n.a.       3         2        2         2        2         2        2         2         2          2         2
c) Cowa                   ,          n.a.        n.a.       3         2        2         2        2         2        2        2          2         2          2
d) Balls                  %          n.a.          4        3         2        2         2        2        2         2        2          2         2          2
Liveweight at sale:
4) We3ners               kg          n.a.        n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     225       225      225       225       225        225       225
b) Heifers               kg          n.a.        n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     350       350      350       350       350        350       350
c) Steera                kg          n.a.        n.a.     n.a.      450      450       450      450       450      450      450        450       450        450
d) Cave                  kg          n.a.        n.a.     400       400      400       40O      100       400      100       400       400        400       400
e) Bus                   kg          n.a.        n.a.     600       600      600       600      600       600      600       600       600        600       600
Sale price liv±eieght:
a) Weaners              Ptas/kg      n.a.        n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.e.      n.a.      145       45       4t5      145       145        145       145
b) Heifws               Pies/kg      n.a.        n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.e.      40        40       40        40        40         40        40
c) Steers              Ptas/kg       n.a.        n.a.     n.a.       40       40        40       40        40       40        40        40        40         40
d) Gows                Pesa/kg       n.a.        n.a.      30        30       30        30       30        30       30        30        30         30        30
e) Bulls                Ptas/kg      n.a.        n.a.      35        35       35        35       35        35       35        35        35         35        35
Purchase prices:
a) Heifers              PtqB         n.a.     15,000   15,oo0       n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
b) BUlls                 Ptes        n.a.     40,000    40,000   40,000   40,000    40,000   40,000    40,000   40,oo0    40,000    40,000     40,000    40,000
Sheep
Lanbing rate              %           65          65       70        70       75        75       75        75       75       75         75         75        75
Culling rate:
a) DEes                   %          15           15       18        20       20        20       20        20       20        20        20         20        20
b) Rams                   %           15          15       18        20       20        20       20        20       20        20        20         20        20
Mortality:
a) Ees                    %            5           5        4         4        1         4        L4        4        1         4         4          4         4
b) Rams                   %            4           4        3         3        2         2        2         2        2         2         2          2         2
c) Replacennt  vee        %            8           8        7         6        5         5        5         5        5        5          5          5         5
Yield of ool.        kg/ewe equiv.   1.7         2.0      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5       2.5
Livewei Et at sale:
a) Lambs                 kg           20          25       30        30       30        30       30        30       30        30        30        30         30
b) Cull ewes             kg           35          35       40        40       40        Lo       40        40       140      40         40         40        440
Sale price liveweight:
a) Lbs -,Ptaa/kcg                   32          32       35        35       35        35       35        35       35        355       313                  35
tl CM     ewe           Ptas/k       20           20       2        200 2     0                  2 0           0    O        220                  20        20
Price of wool           Ptae/kg      40           40       40       40        40       40        40       40        40       40         40        40         40
Stocking raet  (Total)  ha/AU        5.6         3.4      2.4       2.1      1.9       1.7      1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5
Cash Crop (barley) ;/
Area                     ha           41          73       59       29        19       14        10      n.a.      n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Yield                   kg/ha      1,500       1,500    1,500     1,500    1,500     1,500    1,500       a.a.     n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      n.-.       n.a.
Price                  Pt.aa/k.g     S3          5.3      5.3       5.3      5.3      5,3_    _ 5.3a                                   aa        n.a. _       _.
y/ n.a. = not applicable.
2/ Fefers to the portion of the crop that is marketed.






SPAIN
LTV.ESTTKI DE OPEM T  'c0cw
DMDVEPVWJT PROJECT IONS
PH4YSICAL AND FINANCIAL 665PPicIENrs (CodA)
GA.T~~~~~~!~UKNTO              De,s1csnt     1                   3        11        5        6          .        8        9         10
1.0-NA IRRI0kTED RKWC'AES-' S01Tt9WESY
cattle
St.cin rate              Ia/Au       fl.a.       n.a.      n.a.      n.e..    n.a.      U..n .a.      n.a.            ..      Me..            n.     e .a.
Cal.f antalht2Te.to        %         n.a..         4.        3         3        2         2        2         2         2        2222
Li,ews1att at ae          kg         n.a.        4.25      4.25     4.25      1.25      1.25     4.25      1.25     4.25      4.25       4.25      4.25       4.25
saaa  ne-i,ni=gh&t      Pine/k       ...e.         10       40        Lo0      1.0       Lo0      1.0       4.0      1.0       10         40        Lo         4.0
Livwmiet at    WCIbase.   kg         n.e..       200       200       2W0      200       200       200      200       200      200        200        200       200
PM-classeprime1i"'k.    PIaa/kg      n.a.          1.5      1.5      1.5       4.5       1.5      1.5       45       4.5       1.5        45         .5        45
Cash Crop
Areas,a                                                                                                                                   ..       na
A) Imeat                  ha           8           2       n.e..     n.e..    n.a.      n. a.     nae.     n2.a.     n.a..    ne.         ...        .a       ne.
b) Wse                    h           10           5       n.a.      n.A..    n.a.      n.a..     n.e..    n.a.      n.e.     n.a..      n.e..      n.e..     n.e..
e) POt atoes              he.          4         n.a..     n.e..     n.e..    U.&.      U.&..    n.e.                A.e. .  n.e.  .e.    ..         ..        ..
4i) Cothan               hi           1.          n.e..    n.a..     a.e.     n..a.     n.e..     n.&.  n.           n.e..    La.        D.&..       ..        .
a) TointoeB               ha           4.        n.e..     n.&..     n...     n.e..     D.&..     n.e..    nk.a.     n.e.     n.&..      U.&.      U.e..       s.e.
f) Alfalfa                ha           1.           2      n.a.      n.e..    n.e..     n.a.      n.e..    a.e..     .a.&      na.       n.e..      n.e..      ..
Qnp yields,
a) ~Mx                   kg&&       ,04   3,000   ,o       ne.       n.eA.    n.a.      n.a.      n.e..    n.a.      n.a.     n.a.       n.a.       n.e..     n.e..
b)H    .                 kg/aoe    5,009         5,0O0     n.e..     n.e..    n.a.      n.e.a  ..          n.e..     nae.     n.e..      n.e..      n.e..     U.e..
c)Potatoes             kg.Ae     1:00           ne.       ne.      ne.        ..        ..       ..        ...     ne.       ne.       ne.        ne.        L.e..
4)Catton               kVUh       2,000         n.e..     n.e..    n.e..     n.e..     n.a..    IL. a.    n.a..    n.e..     n.e..     D.e..      n.e.       ne
.)?ustnes               gh        3 00          n.e..     n..      n.. a      a. a     Mea.     n.. o-      . n.     e..     M.e..     nt.e.      n.e..      n.eL.
f)AlI2 lgAk                        50,000       50, 000    n.e..:    n.e..    U.&.      n.e..     n.e..    n.&..     nae.      M.e..     n.e..     D.eA.      n6.e.
a)p prcs                PIBAe/       6.5          6.5      n.e..     U.eA.    nae.      n.e..    n.e.      n.e.      n.e..    n.e.       n.e..      n.e..       ..
b)  eZ                   tak         5.2          5.2      n.e..     n.e..    n.e.      n.e..     A.e..    n.e.     Zn.e.     n6.e.       .          ..        ..
e)Pvte.tows             Pteas/k9     2.0          n.e..    n.e..     n.e..    n.e..     U.m       n.a.     n.e..     n.e. 8   nea.       n.e..       A.e.      ..
d) Octton               Ptae,'kg    16.0          n.e..    n.e..     n.e..    n.e..     n.e..    n.e.      n.&..     n.e.     n.eL.      nL.e.      ..         .
a) ?    ePeak                        2.5          n.e..    n.e..     n.e..    n.&.      n.e..    n.e. A     ..  n     .e.  n   .e.z6.    n.e.&      ne.        na.e
4.0-Hi DLIR  TAMl -NORT2
Cattle
Stocking rate            ha/AU       0.9          0.9      0.8       0.?      0.6       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5        0.5        0.5       0.5
Gm frtility rae.t                     70           70       75        80       85        90       90        90       90        90         90         90        90
mwte.a1tyz 
a)ciem                                 3            3        2         2        2         2         2        2         2        2          2          22
b)HeLfer cAlvee                        1.          1.        3         2        2         2         2        2         2        2222
C) Bnllealve                           1.          1.        3         2        2         2         2        2         2        2222
~~'HnEfn?2C,IAOUUflt  2   2       2                  2         2             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  2    2         2          2z
-11nG  t-1-5                   15        15       el        201       20       20        80       20        to         Be        20         2
LIlk yield              It/cow     2,500        2,500    2,700     2, 90    3,100     3,300     3,500    3,700     3,900    4.,100     4.,300     4.,500    4.,500
sale pic1e.s, 
a.)Milk                 p~t            6            6        6         6        6         6         6        6         (t.      6          6          66
b) Cufll cove           P=e.s     1.5,000      1, 15,000     15,000    15, o         15,000  15,000  15,000  15,000     . 15, 000. 15,000   15,000     . 15,  000 ., D
c) Heifer ~~~1wa  Pine  1.,000      1.,DE~00  1.,0    1,000     4 ,00     1.,000   1.,000    4.000     4.,ooe.  4.00 MO      00       1,00       .00
a) Nelfere 1-2 yocre Pins   18,000       18,000C  18,000    l8~18,000     1     8,00     18,000   18,000    18,000.  18, W      18,000     15,000)   18,000
Cah  2/
a) Itize                  ha           6          n.e.     ne.       ne.       ne. n.a.  n.e..              n.e. n.e..         n.e. n.a..           n.e. .a.
b) Potatoes               ha           2          n.a.     n.e..     n.e..    n..a   .   n.a      n.e.a     ne.      n.a..     n.e..     U.&.       n.e..       ..
a) Maoize                kg/ha.     2,500         n.a..    n.e..     n.a..     n.e..    n.e..     nl.a.     a.a.     n.e..      ..        ..         ..         ..
b) Potatoes              kg/ha     12,000         n.a..    n.a.      n.a.      n.e..    n.e..     n.e.      n.e..    n.e..     n.e..      n.e..     na         n..
Prices:                                                                                                                        UL          a
a) Meaize               PtLas/kg     5.2          n.e.      .. ...   n.a.      n.         e.. n.e..  n.      e.. n.    e.. n.   e.        ...       ne.         ..
b) Potatoea             Ptas/kc       20          n..      n.a.      n.a..     n.e..    n.e..     n.e..     n.e..    n.e..     n.e..      n.e..     n.e..       ..
I/! n.a.. - not applicable.
87/ Refers to the portion of the crop tha.t iC marketed.






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DELWOPWT    PROJECT
DEVELOPMDENT FF'JE'-rTIONS
DEVELOPME   F 500-HA DRYLAND RANCH - SOUTHWEST
ON-RANCH INVESTMENT PROJECTIONS
Developnent Phasing
Average      Average         Cost Per Ranch                   Y3ARS                        Cost - 780 Ranches
Units      Unit Coet                  (US$ 000       1       2       3      4                         (UB$ million
Investment Item          Unit    Per Ranch     (Ptas)      (Ptas '000)     egaiv.)     (    -   Ptas '000--------)     (Pta  minion)            v.
Pasture establishment     ha        360         2,100           756         10.8       210     252     294     --             590            8.4
Pasture consolidation     ha        360           400           144          2.1        --      40      48     56             112            1.6
Fencing                   lou        13.5      30,000           405          5.8       123     135     147     --             320            4.5
Watering points            NQ.         2       82,000           164           2.3       82      82      --                     128           1.8
Silos                               300           12i            37.5        0.5        37.5    --                             30            0.4
Tracto                     No.        1       160,000           160           2.3       --     160      __     __              125           1.8
Forage  harvester          No.         1       37,500            37.5         0.5       37.5                                    30           0.4
H   baler                  No.        1       11o0,000          140           2.0      140      _-                             109           1.6
Cattle:
Heifers                 rio.      100        15,000         1,500          2'L.4     750     750      --                   1,170          16.7
Bu5 s                _   No.        I        440,000_         160          2.3        80      80      --                    125            1.8
Total                --         --         --           3,504          50.0    1,460   1,499     489     56            2,739          39.0






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVIILORItT PROJECT
.SVENDST PRdMMIONS
DEVRLOPMENT OF rOHA DRYLAND RANCHES - SOUTHWEST
CATTLE =MEf DEV&W±'ET F=      E~IN
CATE3GRY               UNIT      Value of Cattle      Before                                                                  Y NA R S
tPtas)           Development      1          2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9         10          11          12
HERD COMPOSITION
Breeding COWs           No.          20,000                             --       148         89        92        109       124        ThO        140       140        1140       140         140
Bulls                   No.          30,000                              2         4          5         5          5          5         5          5         5          5           5          5
Calves weaned           No.          10,000             --              --        31         62        69         87         99       112        112       112        112        112         112
Heifers 8-20 mos.       No.          14,000             --              50        50         15        31         34         43        35         35        35         35          35         35
Steers 8-20 mos.        No.          18.000             --              --        --         16        31         35        44         40         40        40         40         40          40
Total incl. calves      No.            --               --              52       133        187       228        270       315        332        332       332        332        332         332
Total                   AU                              --              52       102        125       159        183        216       220        220       220        220         220        220
SheepI                  AU U                            78              7a        79         81        81         81         81        81         81        81         81         81          81
Ormnd total             AU             _                78                       181        206       240        264       297        301        301       301       3)U         301         301
MDRTALITY
Heifers 8-20 mos.       No.            ----                              2         2          1          1         1          1         1          1          1         1           1          1
Steera 8-20 mos.        No.            --               --                                    1         1          1          1         1          1         1          1           1          1
Cows                    No.            --               __              __2                   2          2         2          2         3          3          3         3           3          3
Bulls                   No.            --               --              --        --          1         --         1         --         1         --        --         -           --         --
Total                   No.            --               __               2         4          5          4         5          4         6          5          5         5           5          5
SALES
Weaners                  No.         10,000             --                         --        --         --        --         24        37         37         37        37          37          37
Steers 20 mos.          No.          18,000             --              --        --         15         30        34         43        39         39         39        39          39         39
Heifers 20 mos.         No.          14,000             --              --        --         --         --        --          5        10         10         10        10          10         10
Cull cows               No.          12,000             --              --         5          9         1         16         19        21         21        21         21          21         21
Cul bulls               No.          21,000                                        1        ---          1         1          1        --          1          1         1           1          1
Total                    No.           --               __              --          6        24         42        51         92       107        108        108       108         108         108
PU1RCHASES
Heifers 1-2 yrs.        No.          15,000             --              50        50         --         --        --         --         --        -          --        --          -           -
Bulls 1-2 yra.          No.          40.000             --               2          2         1          1         2          1         1          1          1         1           1           1
Total                   No.            --               --              52        52          1          1         2          1         1          1          1         1           1           1
TECHNICAL COEFFICIETrS
Calves weaned                          --               --              --        65         70         75        80         80         80        80         80        80          80          80
Cow  culled               %            __                               --         10        10         12        15         15         15        15         15        15          15          15
Bulls culled              ,                             -_              15        15         15         15        15         15        15         15         15        15          15          15
Mortality:
a) Heifers 8-20 mos.      %            -                --               4          3         2          2          2         2          2         2          2          2          2           2
b) Steers 8-20 mos.       %            --               --              --          3         2          2          2         2          2         2          2          2          2           2
C) cOws                                --               ----                        3         2          2          2         2          2         2          2          2          2           2
d) Bulls                  ,--                           --               4          3         2          2         2          2          2         2          2          2          2           2
I/ From Table 5.






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_DEVELOPME0T PROJECTIONS
DfEVEOPMENT OF 500-HA DF1UfLD RLNCHE  - SOT7HWET
SHEEP HERD DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
CATEGORY               UNIT        Before                                                              Y E A R S
Development      L         z         J         L         >U 
HERD COMPOSITION
Breeding ewes           No.          375           375       375       375       375       375       375       375       375       375        375        375        375
Breedirg ramB           No.           14            14 114 h                      1.4       14        14        14         1J4      14         14         14         14
Lambs weaned            NO.          (244)         244       262       262       281       281       28].      281        281       281       281        281        281
Replacement ewes        No.            78           78        86        92         92        92        92        92        92        92        92         92         92
Replacenent rams        No.            3             3         3         4         3          4         3         3         3         3         3          3          3
Total                   No.          714          714       740       747       765       766       765       765        765       765       765        765        765
Total                   AU            78            78        79        81        81        81         81        81        81        81        81         81         81
Ewe equivalents         No.          470           470       478       485       484       485        485      485        485       485       485        485        485
?4RTALrTY
&Mes                    No.           19            19        15        15        15        15        15        15         15        15        15         15         15
Rmns                    No.            1             1         1         1         --         1        --        --        --        --        --         ---
Replacement ewes        No.            6             6         6         5         5          5         5         5         5         5         5          5          5
Total                   No.           26            26        22        21        20         21        20        20        20        20        20         20         20
SALES
Lambs                   No.          163           155       166       167       185       186        185       185       185       185       185        185        185
Cull ewes               No.           53            53        65        72        72         72        72        72        72        72        72         72         72
Cu]l rams               No.            2             2         2         3         3          3         3         3         3         3         3          3          3
Total                   No.          218           210       233       242        260       261       260       260       260       260       260        260        260
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Mortality:
a) Ewes                  %              5             5        4          4         4         4         4         4         4         4         4          4          4
b) Rams                  %             4              4         3         3         2         2         2         2         2         2         2          2          2
Replacercnt ewes         %             8              8        7          6         5         5         5         5         5         5         5          5          5
Lambing                  S            65            65        70         70        75        75        75        75        75        75        75         75         75
Culling:
a) Ewes                  %            15            15         18        20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20         20         20
b) Rams                  %            15             15        18        20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20         20         20
Yield of wool       kg/ewe equiv.    1.7            2.0       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5        2.5






ANN EX 3
SPAIN
LIVSTOCK DEVEIOPNIT PROJECT
DEVEWPMINT PRdJECTIONS
DEVE=LPMIJT OF 5oo-HA fRYLAlD RANCH - SOUTHWEST
SAILS PROJECTIONS
Before                                           YE A R S
Categar,             'Jilit   Developoent     1       2       3       4       5       6        7       8       9       10-12
CATTLE
Nuimber of Head Sold
Wean.ers              'lo.       --            --      --      --      --      --      24      37      37      37        37
Heifers 20 mos.       No.        --            --      --      --      --      --       5      10      10      10        10
Steers 20 mos.        No.        --           __       __     15       30      34      43      39      39      39        39
Cull cows             No.        --            --      5        9      11      16      19      21      21      21        21
Cull bull s           No.        --           __       1       __       1       1       1      __       1      __         1
Average Liveweight
Weaners               kg                               --                             225     225     225     225       2.25
eifers 20 mos.      Icg         --           --      --      --      --      -      350     350     350      350       350
Steers  20 mos.       kg         --            --      --    450      450     450     450     250     450     450       450
Cull cows             kg         --           --     400     400      400     400     400     400     400     4O0       400
Cull bullUE           kg         --            --    600     60         0 600  600    600     600     600     600       600
Price Liveweight
Weaners             Ptas/kg       --           --      --      --      --      --     465     445     )45    1J56       445
Heifers 20 mos.     Ptas/kg      -_            __      _       _                       40      ho      4o     4h 
Steers   20 mos.    Pt-as/kg     --            --      --     40       40      40      40      40      4o     4h         4o
Cull cows           Ptas/kg      --            --      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30        30
CulL bl. l              s/kr     --            --     35      35       35      35      35      35      3'      35        3'
Cattle Sales
Weaners            Ptas 1000      --                   -       -       --      --     240     370     370     370       370
Heifers 20 mos.    Ptas '000     --            --      --      --      --      --      70     140     14h     140       140
Steers   20 mos.   Ptasa 000     --            --      --     270     540     612     774     702     702     702       702
Cull cows          Ptas '000     --            --     60     108      132     192     228     252    52    52 22
u,ll hulFl        ,tas '000     --            --     21       --      21      ?1      Pt      --      2t      --        ?1
Total          Ptas '000     --           -       81     378      693     825   1,333   1.I64l 1,485    1,464     1,485
LAMB AND MUTTON
Number of Head Sold
Laynbs                No.       163          155     166      167     185     186     185     185     185     185       185
Cull ewes             No.        53           53      65      72       72      72      72      72      72      72        72
Average Liveweight
Lambs                 kg         20           25      30      30      30       30      30      30      30      30        30
Cull ewes             kg         35           35      40      ho       40      40      hO      40      40      40       4h
Price Liveweight
Lambs               Ptaas/kg     32           32      35      35       3;      35      35      35      35      35        35
Cu'L ene,;         Pa"s/kg      20           20      20      20       20      20      20      20      20      20        20
Sheep S.le 
Lambs              Ptas '000    104          124     174     175      194     195     194     194     194     19h       194
CuUl ewes          Ptas '000     37           37      52      58      58       58      58      58      58      58        58
Total          Ptas '000    1141         161     226     233     252     253      252     252     252     252       252
WOOL
Nvmber shorn      ewes eqti v.  470          470     478      485     484     485     485     485     485     485       h485
Yield            kg/ewe equiv. 1.7           2.0     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5     2.5     2.5     2.5     2.5       2.5
Productiorn         kg '000     8.0          9.4    12.0    12.1    12.1     12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1      12.1
Price               Ptas/kg      ho          4h       140    4h        40      ho     4h       40      40      40        4o
Sales              ?tas '000     32           38      48       49      48      248     48      48      48      48        48
CASH CROP (Etarley)
Area                  ha         hI,          73      59      29       19     UA        C      --      --      -- 
Yield                kg/ha    1,500        1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500    1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500     1,500
Productioni          m ton      66.0        109.0    88.0    43.5    28.5    21.0    15.0      --      -_      --
Price               Ptas/kgr    5.3          5.3     5.3     5.3     5.3     '. 3     5.3      --
Sales              Ptas I '00   350          580     470     230     150      LLO      80      --      --      __
TOTAL SALES
Cattle             Ptas '000     -            --      81     378     693      825   1,333   1,464  1,,85    l1464     1,1685
Sheep              Ptas '000    11           161     226     233      252     253     252     252     252     252       252
Wlool              Ptas '000     32           38      48      49      48       48      48      48      48      48        48
Cash crop'         Ptas '000    350          580     470     230     150     nO       80      --       --      --
Total          Ptas '000    523          779     825     890   1,143    1,236   1,713  t.,764   1,785   1,764     1,785






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM! NT PROJECT
DE_ELPMDNT PROJECTIONS
DEVEELPMDT OF 500-HA DRrhAND  MNCH - SOUTHWEST
PROJECTED OPFUTINO  IPIVNSES
Before                               Y E A R S
Unit      Unit Coat      Develotment      1      2       3       4      5       6      7-12
(Ptas )      ---- - ----------- --------- Ptaa t 000 ---_________________________--
Labor                   Man ecliv.    75,000      225.0           225.0  225.0   225.0  225.0   225.0  225.0    225.0
Pasture mraintenancet
Reseeding                ha            840       --              --     --      --     --      60.5    60.5    60.5
FertilLzer               ha            200       --              --     --      20.0    44.0   72.0    72.0    72.0
Annual crops:
Cereal seeds             ha            600       27.0          143.2    34.8    27.0   27.0    27.0   27.0     27.0
Forraga seeds            ha            700       --              12.6   22.4    31.5   31.5    31.5    31.5    31.5
Fertilizer               ha            400       18.0            36.0   36.0    36.0   36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0
Harvest                  ha            600       27.0            43.2   34.8    27.0   27.0    27.0   27.0     27.0
Pwrchase of bulls         head        40,000       --             --      --      40.0   40.0    80.0   40.0     40.0
Animal health              __            1/         4.7             9.9   15.0    17.4   20.7    23.2   26.5     26.9
Shearing                e'M equiv.       -lo        4.7            4.7     4.8     4.9    4.8     4.9    4.9      4.9
Machinery repair, main-
tenance and oteration                   2/        73.0            98.0  117.2   123.0  123.0   123.0   123.0   123.0
Building repairs and
maintensnce              --                      25.2            30.0   34.4    37.3   37.3    37.3   37.3     37.3
Taxes                      __            ;/        37.0           38.2    43.2    45.5   48.9    51.3   54.6     55.0
Sub-total            --           __         441.0          540.8  567.6   634.6  665.2   798.7   765.3   766.1
arand total.         -_           __         441.0          595.0  625.0   696.0  732.0   879.0   842.0   843.0
1/ 10 Ptas per ewe equivalent and 100 Mts per cattle AU.
2/ 15% on mnchinery inventory for repairs and maintenance plus 27 Ptaa per tractor hour for
combustibles and lubricants.
3/ 2% on bailding inventory for repairs snd maintenance.
1/ 50 Ptas per h real estate tax plus 100 Ptas per AU.
5/ Including approxfrtely 10% allowance for contingency, except in the situation "Before Development".
t1-






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500 HA DRYLAND RANCH - SOUTHWEST
FINANCIAL PROJECTION
Before                                                          YEARS
Development     1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8         9        10        11        12
------------------------------------------------(Ptas '000 -…-------------------------…--    ----------------  ---------- ----
I.     Cash inflow
(a) Sales                          523        779     825       890    1,143    1,236     1,713    1,76L     1,785    1,764     1,785    1,785      1,785
(b) Loan:
Development                             1,207   1,24s6      420      -        -          -        -        -        -         -        -          -
Working Capital                            65      205       326      454      643       400      250       80
(c) Farmer's contribution 1/                  130     130        35       56      -         -        -         -        _         _        _          _
(d) Total cash inflow              523      2,181   2,406     1,671    1.653    1,879     2,113    2,014    1,865    1,764     1,785     1,785      1,785
II.    Cash outflow
(a) Investment                              1,460   1,i499      489       56      -         -        -        -         -         -        -          -
(b) Operating expenses             441        595     625       698      732      879       842      843      843       843       843      843        843
(c) Total cash outflow             441      2,055   2,124     1,187      788      879       842      843      843       843       843      843        843
III.   Annual cash balance before
service charges                      82        126     282       484      865    1,000     1,271    1,171    1,022      921       942      942        942
IV.    Incremental cash balance
before  service charges                        44/  i  200      402       783      918    1,189     1,089      940      839       860      o60        860
V.     Service charges
(a) Debt service
i) Development Loan
Interest 2/                              39     119       173      187       171       154      136      117       97        75       52         27
Amortization 4/                                  -         -        240      257       275      294s     314      336       360      385        412
ii) Working Ca ital
Interest 5/                               2       7        10       15       21         14        o        3           -             -          -
Amortization                            -        65       205      326      454        643      40o      250       80       -        -          -
iii) Total Debt ServNce                       41      291       388     768       903     1,086      838      684      513       435      437        439
(b) Technical serviceŽ /                         3       9        14       15       15        13        12        9        8         6        4          2
(c) Total service charges                       44     200       402      783      918      1,099      850      693      541       441      441        441
VI.   Annual cash balance after
service charges                                 82      82        82       82        82       172      321      329      380       501      501        501
VII.  Incremental cash balance after
service charges                                  0       0         0        0         0        90      239      247      298       419      419        419
V/ Farmers' cash contribution accounts for about 10% of the total on-farm investment cost.   The rest of the farmers' contribution
is provided in the form of labor and unutilized materials on the farm.
2/ Difference with "Before Development".
6.5% on the outstanding Development Loan.
12 years repayment with 3 years of grace.
6/ 0.5% on one half of the loan for Working Capital.
6/0.5% on the outstanding debt.






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DKVEWJ)PMENT OF 40-HA IRRIGATED RANCH - SOUTHWEST
ON-RANCH INVETMSTMI PROJ1CTIONS
Development Phasing
Average      Average         Cost Per Ranch               Y B A R S               Cost - 110 Randies
Units      lhit Cost                  (us$ '000       1            2                         (t$ 000
Investment Item           Uhnit   Per Ranch     (Ptas)      (Ptas '000)     equiv.)   (----- Ptas '000 -----)   (Ptas million)     equiv.)
Pasture establishbrnt      ha          20        5,800         116           1.7         116            --          12.8           1.87
Pasture consolidation      ha          20        1,500          30           0.4          --            30           3.3             44
Fencing                    k                        30         120           1.7          60            60          13.2            187
Silo                       m          550          125          69           1.0          69            --           7.6            .10
Hay barn                   m          226          800         181           2.6         181            --          19.9            286
Feedlot                    No.          1       50,000           50          0.7          50            --           5.5             77
Machinery                   1/       --           --            120          1.7         120            --          13.2            187
Total                 --        --                        686          9.8         596            90           75.5         1,078         1
1/ Package containing foarge seeder, roller, forage harvester and feed grinder.






AW NEX 3
Tabl=el
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DE LNENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT pROJECTIONS
DZVELOPMENT OF 40-HA  lRIGATZD RANCH - SOUTHWEST
SALES PROJECTIONS
Before                             Y B A R S
Category                llnit     Desvelopnt            1                      3          4-12
CATTLE
Steers
Number of head sold      No.        __                   62        175        175         177
Average liveweight       kg         __                  425        425        425          425
Price liveweight       Ptas/kg      --40                            40         40           40
Cattle sales          Ptas I 000    _                 1,054      2,975      2,975       3,009
CASH CROPS
Area
Wheat                    ha           8                   2        --          --          --
Maize                    ha          10                   5        --         --           --
Potatoes                 ha           4--                          --         --           -
Cotton                   ha          14                 --         --         --           --
Tomatoes                 ha           4                 --         --         - 
Alfalfa                  ha           4                   2        --          --
Yield
Wheat                   kg/ha     3,000               3,000        --          --          -_
Maize                   kg/ha     5,000               5,000        --          --          __
Potatoes                kg/ha    15,000                 --         --         --          --
Cotton                  kg/ha     2,000                 --         --         --           --
Tomatoes                kg/ha    30,000                 --         --          __          __
Alfalfa                 kg/ha    50,000              50,000        --          --          --
Production
Wheat                   tons         24                   6        --          __          __
Maize                   tons         50                  25        --          --          --
Potatoes                tons         60                 --         --         --          --
Cotton                  tons         28                 --
Tomatoes                tons        120                 --         __         _    
Alfalfa                 tons        200                 100        -_          __          __
Prices
Wheat                  Ptas/kg      6.5                 6.5        __          __          __
Maize                  Ptas/kg      5.2                 5.2        --          --          --
Potatoes               Ptas/kg      2.0                 - -        ----
Cotton                 Ptah/kg     16.0                 __         __          __          __
Tomatoes               Ptas/kg      2.5                 --         --         --           --
Alfalfa                Ptas/kg      0.5                 0.5        --          --          --
Sales
Wheat                 Ptas '000     156                  39        --          --          --
Maize                 ptas '000     260                 130        --         --           __
Potatoes              Ptas '000     120                 --         --         --          --
Cotton                Ptas '000     448                 --         --         --          --
Tomatoes              Ptas '000     300                 --         --         --          --
Alfalfa               Ptas '000     100                  50        __         __           __
Sub-total       PtaB '000   1,384                 219        --         --          --
TOTAL SAIES
Cattle                Ptas '000     --                1,054      2,975      2,975       3,009
Cash Crops            Ptas '000   1,384                 219        --         --          --
TOTAL           Ptas '000   1,384               1,273      2,975      2,975       3,009






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJ.CT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVOPMET OF 40-HA IRRIGATED RANCH - SOUTHWMT
PROJECTED OPERATING EPENSBS
Before                                             Y E A R S
uini        t it Cgst       Bevelopment        1         2         3                   5         6         7         o-12
(Fts   }           2~:t                - -- --  - - - -P - - - -IT48  WO  ----------__ --_____________-  i, ---------- 
Purchase of weaners           No.          9,000            --             565     1,620     1,620     1,620     1,620     1,620     1,620       1,620
Labor                      Man equiv.     75,000           1490            225       225       225       225       225       225       225         225
Pasture maintenance:
Reseeding                   ha           2,000             --              --       --        --        --        --        --        40          --
Fertilizer                  ha           1,500            --              --         --       30        30        30        30        30          30
Annxal cro:
3eed                        1/           3,000 2          63              26        26        26        26        26        26        26          26
Fertilizer                  Ea             800-'         1148             60        60        60        60        60        60        60          60
Insecticide and fung.       ha             7501/          69              32        32        32        32        32        32        32          32
Harvest                     ha             300            10               8         8         8         8         8         8         8           8
Irrigation fees              ha              70             12              12        12        12        12        12        12        12          12
Aninal health                head           --               --              5        13        13        13        13        13        13          13
Machinery repair, mainte-
naice and operation         4t/           __              86              96        96        96        96        96        96        96          96
Building repair and
:naintenance                5/            --                7             114       15        15        15        15        15        15          15
Taxes                                       --20                            23        29        29        29        29        29        29          29
Sub-total                             --             905           1,086     2,136     2,166     2,166     2,166     2,166     2,206       2,166
7/
Grnd totaa-                                           905          1,165     2,265     2,301     2,301     2,301     2,301     2,3145      2,301
1/ Coast of annual crop seed was estimated at: barley Ptas 600/ha; vetch Ptas 700/ha; maize for silage Ptas 750/ha; and maize for grain Ptas 500/ha.
7/ The estimated average cost per hectare before developmnent is approximately Ptas 1,600/ha.
3/ Before development the cost of harvesting (wheat) was estimated at Ptas 1,200/ha.
TV 15% and 8% respectively on the old and new machizery inventory has been allowed for machinery repairs and maintemance, plus Ptas 27
per tracto hour for combustibles and lubricants.
5/ 2% on the eatinated value of building inventory.
E/ Ptas 50/ha real estate tax plus Ptas 50 per calf.
77  Inclnding a contingency allowance of approximately 10% on operating expenses except purchase of weaners plus 5% on the purchase of weaners,
except in the situation "Before Development".






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 142-.u IRRIGATED RM=NCH - SOUTHWEST
FINAINCIAL PROJECTION
before                                                               YEARS                                        12
Development     1        2        3       4        5        6        7                 9        10        11        12
------------------------------             -…Ptas'000---------…-----                       -------------------
I.    Cash inflow-
(a) Sales                          1,384      1,273    2,975    2,975    3,009    3,009    3,009    3,009    3,009    3,009     3,009     3,009     3,009
(b) Loan:
Development                     -           515       48      -       -        -        -        -        -        -         -         _         _
Working Capital     1                       1437     275      166      139      121     103       85       67       49        31        13       -
(c) Farmer's contribution-'          -            48      20      -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -         -         -
(d) Total cash inflow              1,384       2,273    3,318   3,141    3,148    3,130    3.112    3,094    3,076    3,058     3,040     3,022     3,009
II.   Cash outflow
(a) Investment                       -           596      90      -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -         _         _
(b) Operating expenses               905       1,165    2,265    2,301   2,301    2,301    2,301    2,345    2,301    2,301     2,301     2,301     2,301
(c) Total cash outflow               905       1,761    2,355    2,301   2,301    2,301    2,301    2,345    2,301    2,301     2,301     2,301     2,301
III. Annual cash balance
before service charges               479         512      963      840      847      829      811      749      775      757       739       721       708
IV.   Incremental cash balanos
before service charges                            33      484      361      368      350      332      270     296      278       260       242        229
V.    Service Charges
(a) Debt service
i) Development Loan
Interest I/                                17       34       36       34       31       28       25       21       18        14         9         5
Amortization                              -        -         41       44       47       50       53       57       61        65        70        75
ii) Working Capital
Interest Ž1                                14        9        6        5        5        4        3        3        2         1       -         -
Amortization                              -        437      275       166     139      121      103       85       67        49        31        13
iii) Total debt service                         31      460      358       249     222      203      184     166       148       129       110        93
(b) Technical services §/                          2        4        3         3       2       2         2        2        1         1         1       -
(c) Total service charge                          33      484      361       252     224      205      186      168      149       130       111        93
VI.   Annual cash balance after            479         479      479      479       595     605      606      563      607      608       609       610       615
service charges
VII. Incremental cash balance after        -             0        0        0       116     126      127       84      128      129       130       131       136
service charges
1/ Farmer's cash contribution accounts for about 10% of the total on-farm investment cost.   The rest of the
farmers' contribution is provided in the form of labor and unutilized materials on the farm. 
2/ Difference with "Before Development".
3/ 6.5% on the outstanding loan.
v 12 years repayment with 2 years of grace.
5/ 6.5% on one half Of the loan for working capital.
6/ 0.5% on the outstanding debt.






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEYE0PDSNT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJE;CTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 4o-HA DAIRY FARM - NORTH
ON-FARM INVESTMNT PROJECTIONS
Development Phasing
Average       Average          Cost Per Farm                   Y E A R S                    Cost - 160 Farms
Units       Unit Cost                   (US$ '000      1      2       3       4                        (IE$ '000
Investment Item           unit     Per Farm       (Ptas)       (Ptas '000)     equiv.)     (------ Ptas 000 -------)      (Ptas million)       equiv.)
Pasture establishment      ha         26           4,600          120           1.7         30      60     30     --           19.2              272
Pasture consolidation      hs         26             500           13           0.2         --       3      7      3            2.1               32
Fencing                     km         3          30,000           90           1.3         23      45      22     --          114.4             208
Silo and hay barn           V/        --            --            100           1.4        100      --      --                 16.0              224
Machinery                   E/--                    --              75          1.0         75      __      __     __           12.0             160
Milking equipment           No.        1          70,000            70          1.0         70      __      __     __           11.2             160
Total                 __   --                 -- _468                     6.7        298     108      59      3           7h.9           1,056
1/ It has been estimated that the model farm would require 120 m2 of hay barn (Ptas 800/m2) and 400 m3 of silo (Ptas 125/m3) for a total of 
Ptas 146,000. However, most prospective borrowing farms already possess a substantial number of farm buildings. Thus, an investment of
only about 3/5 of total requiremnt has been imputed to this model.
2/ Package including a forage harvester, forage seeder and a roller.






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPLENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DSVELOPMENT OF 40-HA DAIRY FARM - NORTH
DAIRY HERD DEVMOAWF PROJEZCTIONS
Unit    Value at Cattle     Before                                                 Y I A R S
Category                                    (Ptas)          Development     1       2       3        4      5       6       7               9       10
HERD COMPOSITION
Cows                            No.         25,000             40          40      40      46      53      58      60      60      60      60       60         60
Heifer calves (born)            No.          4,000             14           14     15      18      22      26      27      27      27      27       27         27
Bull calves (born)              No.          4,000             14          14      15      19      23      26      27      27      27      27       27         27
Heifer replacements 1-2 yrs     No.         18.000              7            7      13     15      17      17      15      15      15      15       15         15
Total including calves          No.           -                75           75     83      98     115     127     129     129     129     129      129        129
,Total                          AU            -                47           47      53      61      70      75      75      75      75      75       75         75
MORTALY
Cows                            No.           _                 1           1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1        1          1
Heifer calves (born)            No.           __                1           1       --      1       --      1      --      --       -       _                  -
BaU    calves (born)            No.           _                 1           1       1      --       1      -        1       1       1       1        1          1
Heifer replacements 1-2 yrs     No.           -                --           --      -       -       --      -      -        --      --     --       -          --
Total                           No.           --                3           3        2       2      2       2       2       2       2       2        2          2
SALES
Cows                            No.         15,000              6            6       6      7       U      12      12      12      12      12       12         12
Heifer calves (born)            No.          4,000              6           --      --      --       5      10     10      10      10      10       10         10
Ball calves (born)              No.          4,000             13          13       14      19      22     26      26      26      26      26        26        26
Heifer replacenlmmts 1-2 yrs    No.         18,000             --           --      --      --      -        2       2       2       2       2        2          2
Total                           No.           --               25           19      20      26      38      50     50      50      50      50        50        50
TECHNICAL COEFFICIITS
Fertility                        %             -               70           70      75      80      85      90      90      90      90      90       90         90
Mrtality:
cows                           %                              3            3       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2          2
Heifer calves                  %--                            4            4       3       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2          2
BRUl calves                    %--                            4            4       3       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2          2
Heifer replacements                         --                2            2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2          2
Cows culled                      %                             15           15      15      15      20      20      20      20      20      20       20         20
Milk production               lt/cow          --            2,500        2,500   2,700   2,900   3,100   3,300   3,500   3,700   3,900   4,100    4,300      4,500






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
i VEnLOPMNT PROJltT IONS
0D9VUPHOIT 0? 40-EL DA       FAiL - WIORTH
SALES PROJECTMIIS
Before                                                   Y I A R 8
Category                    trlet                         1       2       3       4        5       6       7       o       9        10       U-L12
MILK
Cows                       No.            40             40      40      46      53       58      60      60      60      60      60          60
Fertility rate                            70             70      75      80      85       90      90      90      90      90       90         90
Cow  in milk                No.           28             28      30      37       45      52      54      54      54      54       54         54
milk yield                It/cow       2,500          2,500   2,700   2,900    3,100   3,300   3,500   3,700   3,900   4,100    4,300      4,500
Milk produotion          '000 it          70             70      81     107      140     172     189     200     211     221      232        2L3
Milk price               Ptse/lt           6              6       6       6        6       6       6       6       6       6        6          6
Milk sales               pta, '000       420            420     486     644      837   1,030   1,134   1,199   1,264   1,328   1,393       1,458
CATTLE
Number oe head sold
Cows                       tNo.            6              6       6       7       I       12      12      12      12      12       12         12
Heifers 1-2 yre             No0.          --             --      --       --      --       2       2       2       2        2       2          2
Heifer calves               lio.           6             --      --      --        5      10      10      10      10      10       10         10
Bullcalves                  No.           13             13      14      19       22      26      26      26      26      26       26         26
Ave     livewei,rht
1iVeVet            Iy            500            500     500     500     500      500     500     500     500     500     500         500
Price liveveight
Cows                      Ptae/kg         30             30      30      30       30      30      30      30      30      30       30         30
Heifers 1-2 yrs          Ptaegad      18,000         18,000  18,000  18,000   18,000  18,000  18,000  18,000  18,000  18,000   18,000     18,000
Heifer calves            Ptan/bead     4,000         4l000    4,000   4,000   41,00    4 000 4   000 4    0000 4 ,o00 o 4,000   4,000      4,000
Boll caLves             Ptaa/lead      4,000          4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000    4,000   4,000   4,,000  4        ,000 bD,000        4,000
Cattle males
Cowe                     Pt" I 000        90             90      90     105      165     180     180     180     180     180     180         180
Heifers 1-2 yre          PtUs '000        --             -                                36      36      36      36      36       36         36
Heifer calvea            Ptao 1000        24             __      __      __       20      40      40      40      40      40       40         40
Boll caLves              Ptba  '000       52             52      56      76       88    104      104     104     104     104      104        104
Sub-total           Ptts  000        166           1342    1146     181     273     360      360    360      360     360     360         360
CASH CROPS
Area
Wrie                        ha             6             --      --       --      _-      __      __      __      __      __       __         __
Potatoe s                  ha              2             --      --      __      __       __      __      __      __      __       __         __
'ield
9bize                      kg/ha       2,500             --      -       --      --       --      --      --      --      --       --
Potatoe 9                  ktAn       12,000             --      _       __       __      __      __      __      __      __       __         __
Product ion
Raoe     -                  igkB      15,000             --      --      -            -      _        _    - __    __      __       __
Potatoe's                   kg        24,000             --      --      --       _       _       _       __      __      __       __         _
Prices
Maize z                   Ptaa/kg       5.2              --      -_      __       -_      __      __      __      __      _ _         _ 
Potatoes                  PtaB/kg       2.0              --      -       __       __      __      _       __      __      __       __         __
Sales
Ptai '000        78             --       --      _       __      __      __       __      __      __      __          __
Potatoes                Ptas '000         48            --       --      --      __       __      __      __      __      __       __         __
Sub-total            Ptas '000       126            --       --      --      --      --      --      --       --      --      --         -
TOTAL SALES
Milk                    PMae '000        420            420     486     644     837    1,030   1,1334  1,199   1,264   1,328   1,393       1,458
Cattle                  Ptas t000        166            142     1.46    181     273      360     360     360     360     360     360         360
Cash crops              Ptas '000       126             --      --       -       --     --       --      --      --       -       --         --
Total               Ptas '000        712            562     632     825   1,110   1,390    1,494   1,559   1,624   1,686   1,753       1,818






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJEC(TIONS
DEVELOP!ONT CF 40-HA DAIRy-FARM - NORTH
PaOJECTED OPERATTIG EXPENSE
Before                                    Y E A R S
Unit       Unit Cost       Development        1         2         3         4         5          6-12
(FYas)        (…                     …---Ptas 'OWO -- ------------ --------… 
Labor                        Man Equiv.      75,000          225            225       225        225       225       225         225
Pasture maintemRnce:
Reseeding                      ha           2,000           --              --        --        --        --        --          13
Fertilizer                     ha             600           --             --         --         4        12        16          16
Annual crops:
Seeds                          1/            --             15              7         7          7         7         7           7
Fertilizer                     ha             800           12            1J0        10         10        10        10          10
Feeds                                          --             80             --         --        --        --        --          --
Animal health                    AU             100            5              5          5         6         7         8           8
Machinery repair, maintenance
and operation                  2/            --             55             77        77         77        77        77          77
Building repair and maint.                     --             20             25        27         28        28        28          28
Taxes                           ;/             __             10             11        12         13        15        15          15
Sub-total                                              422            360       363       370        381       386         399
Grand total i/                                         422             396       399       407       418        423         438
1/ Maize and vetch expenditure in seed of 375 and 7CO Ptas/ha respectively.
2/  15% anl 8% respectively on the old and rew nsEhinery inventory has been allowed for machinery repair and maintenance;
the outlay for machinery operation has been estimated at 20 Ptas/ba of tractor use.
3/ 2% on the building inventory.
b/ 100 Ptas/ha Real Estate Tax plus 150 Ptas/AU.
§/ Including approximately 10% allowance for contingency, except in the situation "Before Development".






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPHENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 40-HA DAIRY FARM - NORTH
FINANCIAL PROJECTION
Before                                                                            TEARS
Development         1         2        3         4         5        6         7        o         9         10        11-12
___-__ _ ------------------ -------------------Ptas 'ooo----------------------------------------------  -     -    - …-----------
I.     Cash inflow
(a) Sales                       712            562      632      825     1,110      1,390     1,494    1,559     1,624    1,688     1,753        1,818
(b) Development loan             --            278       88       22
(c) Farmers' contributionY/                    8 1                        ,1 3      13        19       15        12       16        1,
d  Total cash inflow           712            853       722     872     1,113      1,390     1,494    1,559     1,624     1,688    1,753        1,818
II.    Cash outflow
(a) Investment                   -             298      108       59          3       --        --       --        --        --       --           --
(b) Operating expenses          422            396      399      407       418        423       438      438       438       438      438          438
(c) Total cash outflow          422            694      507      460       421        423       438      438       438       438      438          438
III.   Annual cash balance
before service charges          290            159       215     412        692       967     1,056     1,121    1,186     1,250    1,315        1,380
IV.     Incremental cash balance V
before service charges           --           (131)      (75)    122        402        677      766       831      896       960     1,025        1,090
V.     Service charges
(a) Interest on development
loan  V-                                    9        22      26        25         23        20       19        16        13       10             7
(b) Amortization 4/                              -        -        -        32         34        37       39        42        45       48           52
(c) Technical servicesW          --              1        2        2         2          2         2        1         1         1         1           0
(d) Total service charges        --             10       24       28        59         59        59        59       59        59        59          59
VI.     Annual cash balance after       290            149      191      384       633        908       997    1,062     1,127    1,191     1,256        1,321
service charges
VII.    Incremental cash balance         __           (141)      (99)     94       343        618       707      772       837       901      966        1,031
after service charges
/ Farmers' cash contribution accounts for about 10% of the total on-farm investment cost.         The rest of the fanrers'contribution
is provided in the form of labor and unutilized materials on the farm.
2/ Difference with "Before Development".
,/ 6.5% on the outstanding loan.
12 years repayment with 3 years of grace.
0.5% on the outstanding debt.






ANNEX h
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT OF BREEDING CATTLE FOR
THF SOUTHWEST PROJECT AREA
Background
1.        The original project proposal submitted by the Spanish Government
indicated that regular marketing channels would not be sufficient to supply
the 75,000 breeding cows required to stock participating ranches in the
Southwest. It suggested as alternative source of procurement, the importa-
tion from South America of about 75,000 head over a three-year period.   The
mission has r'ound itself unable to subscribe to this proposal in view of the
size of the existing national cattle herd of Spain of nearly 4 million head,
problems of adaptability to the Project area, and organizational problems
of purchase, shipment, quarantine and deployment of such large numbers of
animals. Further reservations concerned the disease factor, particularly
"Foot and Mouth" and the risks of early slaughtet for meat of "cheap"
imported stock.
2.        Discussions with officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, field
veterinarians and cattlemen in the Project area tended to confirm the
mission's reservations in regard to massive imnorts of breeding cattle.
Strong objections exist among cattlemen to imported stock on grounds of
adaptability. The veterinary group of the Ministry expressed its fears on
the disease control side. In particular, it was argued that although the
same three types of Foot and Mouth disease (A, B and C) existing in Latin
America also exist in Spain, the recent British experiences resulting likely
from the introduction of a specially virulent strain from abroad, which
proved so difficult to contain, make import of such large numbers of cattle
hazardous.
3.        The mission found, however, that a very high proportion (about 70%)
of the 350,000 head of female cattle slaughtered annually in Spain are under
two years of age. It, therefore, suggested that the Ministry of Agriculture
explore the possibility of acquiring selected females offered for sale
(mostly by small producers who currently have no alternative outlet), at their
meat value, for subsequent deployment in the Project area. This procedure
appeared to have the potential of supplying from 20-25,000 head per year. On
the question of suitability of local cattle, all farmers contacted were
emphatic as to their preference for locally bred animals, particularly of the
Retinto breed, because of their proven suitability to the Project zone. Many
indeed claimed that they would have no trouble in local procurement through
normal channels so that the special intervention of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture at slaughterhouses might turn out to be necessary only temporarily or as
a support approach.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Local Procurement of Breeding Cattle
4.        In accordance with the mission's suggestions, the Ministry of Agri-
culture studied the possibility of developing an organization that could sal-
vage female calves that otherwise would be slaughtered for meat consumption.
As a result of the study, it made a concrete proposal that the mission found
worthy of support. The proposed System of Livestock Procurement (SLP) would
essentially consist of three steps: (a) acquiring calves; (b) arranging
their rearing to maturity; and (c) selling "mature heifers" to ranchers par-
ticipating in the Project. Participating ranchers would be charged for a
mature heifer a price covering both the purchase price of the calf and the
cost to SLP of rearing it to breeding age. SLP's administrative costs and,
to the extent necessary, transport as well as other transfer costs, would be
absorbed by Government. The acquisition of calves would proceed according
to two alternative methods:   (a) compulsory method-, and (b) voluntary method.
In either case SLP would purchase the female calves on a cash basis.
5.        Compulsory Method:   This method would operate in about 12 abattoirs
located in the Project region. It would consist of purchasing, in situ, at
the on-going beef Drice, selected female calves and heifers offered for
slaughter. 1/ A resident veterinarian would make the individual selection.
SLP would have first claim over the heads selected, for which it would make
cash payments.  The cattle acquired would either be:    (a) immediately trans-
ferred to cooperating breeders who would rear the cattle to breeding age for
further denloyment among particinating ranchers. or (b) occasionally sold
to particioatina ranchers who -would undertake the breeding themselves.
6.        SLP would enter into arrangements with a number of cooperating
breeders strategically located in the Prolect area.    Proper cooperating
agreements would be celebrated with them. The coonerating breeders would
receive the calves properly identified and weighed. It would be their respon-
sibility to feed and care for the cattle according to usual norms of good
animal husbandry, until they reach breeding age (about 350 kg). They would
be assured of access to the necessary short-term financing. At the end of
the breeding cycle, the cooperating breeders would receive a pre-arranged
cash payment on the basis of kilograms of net weight gained. The legality
of this ai)proach would be effected by an appr-onriate decree law.
7.        VoluntarM ethod:    Under this alternative, SLP would purchase 8 to
12 month old female cal,ves directly from ranzhers who would have offered them
for sale. The suitability of the cattle would be determined individually on
the ranch by a member of a team of mobile inspectors, especially hired, that
would be responsible for the approval of each sale. Sales would be effected
on a cash basis at the beef price prevailing locally for similar cattle.    In
1/   It is expected that most of the cattle acquired at slaughterhouses will
consist of 8 to 12 month old female calves, although older suitable
females could also be acquired.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
addition to the two ways of rearing the heifers described for the "compulsory
method", the proposal envisages a third procedure for this method. It consists
of contracting grazing with the seller who, during the rearing period, would
act in the same capacity as the "cooperating breeder" under the "compulsory
method'. In either case, the contractual arrangements would be similar
(paragraph 6).
Size of the Operation
8..       According to the project proposal, stocking the ranches participating
in the Southwestern sub-region would require a total of 75,000 breeding cows
over a period of five years. It is estimated that about 20,000 breeding cows
could be forthcoming through conventional channels. It is expected that this
operation, in conjunction Vith the Project itself, will stimulate the develop-
ment of a market for breeding cows (para 3), and that, as the Project develops,
commercial channels will become progressively a larger source of supply. Thus,
it is estimated that over a period of five years SLP would need to rear 55,000
calves to breeding age.   The acquisition of female calves from the part of SLP
would proceed according to the following schedule:
Years    1     2     3    4    Total
(thousand
Number of female calves                    10    20    15   10     55
Breeds Considered and Size of-Calf Crop
9.        There are three breeds that are likelv to make most of the contri-
bution to the proposed rescue operation:   "Ratinto Andaluz", "Avilena" and
"Blanca Cacerena". These breeds are indigenous to the Project area and con-
sequently perfectly adapted to its natural environment. The population of
these breeds and the estimated annual female calf crop are shown in the
following table:
Retinto
Unit           Andaluz       Avilena   Cacerena
Breeding Cows              No            200,000        40,000    25,000
Fertility                Percent              60            60        60
Calf Crop                  No            120,000        24,000    15,000
Female Calf Crop           No             60,000        12,000     7,500
Replacement Rate         Percent              12            12        12
Replacement                No             24,000         4,8oo     3,000
Excess over Replacement    No             36,000         7,200     4,500



ANNEX 4
10.       The total number of female calves of the three breeds left in excess
of replacement would amount to about 48,ooo per year. It would appear that
this number is sufficient to permit achieving the target of supplying about
55,000 breeding cows to Darticipating ranches over a period of five years.
Administrative Organization
11.       The administration and operation of the SLP would be the responsibi-
lity of a new section to be created within the office of the Director for
Animal Production in the Ministry of Agriculture. The section would have a
small staff at headquarters. The positions at headquarters would not require
additional hiring and would be filled, effecting small readjustments to exist-
ing resDonsibilities within the Directorate for Animal Production. The staff
at headquarters would be in charge of administrative matters. In addition,
SLP would have a field staff of technicians in charge of selecting cattle for
the operation. It is estimated that to that effect, a total of 8 veterinarians
will have to be hired. Five of them will be resident inspectors located at
the principal abattoirs of the region 1/ and would be involved principally
with the 'compulsory method" of operation. Three veterinarians will constitute
the team of mobile inspectors that would visit ranches involved in the
voluntary method" of rescue.   In addition, the mobile team of inspectors
would also be responsible for overseeing the rearing of the calves by "cooper-
ative breeders" and under the alternative of contract grazing.
Cost Estimate
12.       It is estimated that the operation of SLP would cost Ptas 252
million (US$ 3.6 million) during its exnected four years of life. Operating
expenses and capital expenditure are comparatively small cost components rela-
tive to the cost of the revolving fund required to finance the purchase and
rearing of calves, and to the provisions for transport and other transfer
costs. T'he success of SLP will denend upon its prompt access to a revolving
fund that would allow cash payvments to the sellers of calves and to the sub-
sequent breeders.  It has been estimated that the revolvine fund would require
Ptas 160 million during four years. Ptas 29 million, equivalent to 4.5% per
year durirng four years on 160 million has been imputed as cost to SLP 2/.
It has been conservatively estimated that the item "Transport and Transfer
Cost and Contingencies", would be eauivalent to 25,° of the beef value of each
fully grown heifer passing through SLP. Apoendix I itemizes annual operating
expenses 3and capital exDenditure. The fcllowing table provides a breakdown of
SLP's total cost estimate:
1/   The relative smallness of many abattoirs and their being frequently
close to each other would permit that several pairs of abattoirs be
served each by one veterinarian.
2/   4.5i° is the estimated cost to Government of raising money.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Cost Estimate
(000,000 Ptas)        mUS$ equivalent
000, 000)
Operating expenses                        16.0
Capital expenditures                       1.2
Interest on the revolving fund
to finance livestock purchase           29.0
Transport and transfer costs
and contingencies                      205.8                     -
Total                          252.0                    3.6
Pr6pofed Financing
13.       The SLP will be wholly financed by the Spanish Government.   Budge
tary allocations will be required to finance:
(a) operating expenses and capital expenditures- and
(b) transport and other transfer costs associated with
displacing the cattle through different stages until
reaching the final users.
It is proposed that Government not only finance but, to the extent
necessary, also absorb these costs.   In addition, Government would provide
SLP with an advance through the official Banking System to finance live-
stock purchases. These funds would be recovered with the proceeds of the
sale of cattle to participating ranchers. Thus, the funds advanced to SLP
would be completely recovered at the end of four years upon the termination
of SLP activities. Financing of SLP would proceed according to the follow-
ing schedule:



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Year                        1       2         3       4
............ .(Ptas 'ooo) .
Operating expenses                          4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0
Capital expenditures                        1.2       -        -       -
Subsidy to defray transport
and transfer costs                       35.0    70.0      50.0   35.0
Revolving account                         160.o       -        -   (160.0)M/
Short term credit for                                                     2
cooperating breeders                     90.0      -         -    (90.0)-_
1!   Incoming funds resulting from the recovery of the revolving account.
2/   Recovery of short term credit.     The interest on short-term credit
would be borne by the breeders and thus need not be charged to SLP.



APPENDIX I
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPTIMIT PROJECT
System of Livestock Procurement:
Operating Expenses and Capital Expenditures
Operating       Capital
Item                     Expense     Expenditures
.......... ....(Ptas  OOO0) ..........
8 veterinarians:  salaries        2,800           -
Per diem                            360            -
Vehicles:
Investment                        -           1,040
Opera1;ion and rmaintenance       640            -
Office supplies:
Investment                        -             112
Expenses                           15            -
Sub-total                    3,815         1,152
Total (including
contingency)               4,000         1,200






ANNEX 5
Table 1
SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNSNT AGENCY
STAFFING SCHEDULE DURING DEVELOPMENT PHASE
Y E A R S
1.       2        3        4      5
( ----- number
Southwest
Director                   1        1        1        1         1
Technical DirectorQ/       1        1        1        1         1
Professionals2/            5        7       12       15        15
Technicians                2        5        5        5         5
Bookkeeper                 1        1        1         1        1
Secretaries                4        6       10        10       10
Mechanics                  2        2        2         2        2
North
Dairy Consultat2/          1        1        --       --       --
Profession l               2        2        2        2         2
Technicians               --       -         1        1         1
Secretaries                2        2        2        2         2
1/ Internationally recruited, five-year appointment.
2/ During years 1 and 2, four professionals will spend six months
each in Australia as trainees.
2 / Internationally recruited, two-year appointment.
4/ During years 1 and 2, two professionals will spend
six months in New Zealand as a trainee.






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPENT PROJECT
LJIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS DURING DEVELOPMENT PHASE
Y E AR S
1         2        34 
--       -   -  Ptas  '000  ---------------
Technical Director (southwest): cost-"   1,870    1,870     1,870    1,870     1,870
Dairy Consultant (North): cost./         1,800    1,800       --       --       --
Directors (southwest): salaries            650      650       650      650      650
Professional staff: salaries             3,500    4,500     7,000    8,500     8,500
Technical staff: salaries                  600    1,500     1,500    1,500     1,500
Bookkeeper: salary                         200      200      200       200       200
Secretarial staff: salaries                600      800     1,200    1,200     1,200
Mechanics: salaries                        300      300       300      300      300
Vehicles: investment                     1,OlO      780     1,430      650     1,040
operating expenses             2,500     2,500    2,500     2,500    2,500
Office supply                              500      800     1,100      550       550
Per diems                                  840    1,560     2,160    2,520     2,520
Training grants                          1,500    1,500       --       --
Sub-total                         15,900    18,760   19,910    20,440   20,830
Totall/                           17,000    20,000   21,000    21,000   21,000
1/ During years 1 to 5 the Technical Director will be internationally recruited.
A local professional will take over thereafter. The cost of the expatriate
expert includes all staff benefits and travel costs.
2/ Includes all staff benefits and travel costs.
:/ Including an average contingency of about 5%.






SPAIN: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTR   OF GRADVISORY COMMITTEE
GENERAL TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT                       : Representative of Producers, Southwest (Chairman)
Representative of Producers, North
r--- i Representative of Ministry of Agriculture
I   | Representative of BCA
I    I  Representative  of Private Lending institutions  I
|    t Representative of the Livestock Procurement System
I        - - - -  -CP
I     ~~I r-I     
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY               LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                          B BCA
TECHNICAL DIRECTOR                               DIRECTOR                          {  SEVILLE BRANCH
F _~~                                                                                      ~~ L ENDERS 
| TECHNICAL CONSULTAN 
,         I             |    r                          i                 I             iI  I                           I
PROFESSIONAL STAFF              PROFESSIONAL STAFF            NON-PROFESSIONAL STAFF          NON-PROFESSIONAL STAFF
NORTH                         SOUTHWEST                         NORTH                         SOUTHWEST
-DIRECT RELATIONS     ----COORDINATION AND RELATIONS                                                                            R 4
0
February ~969                                                                                                         (R)IBRD -4276 T<






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
FINANCIAL RATES OF RET!IRN
Before                                                                                                 Financial Rate
Development      1        2       3       4      5       6      7      8      9       10     11     12     of Return
'000 Ptas -                                         Over 12 years
(percent)
One 500 ha Dryland Ranch                                                                                                                  17.7
Southwest
Sales                           523        779       825     890   1,143  1,236  1,713  1,764   1,785  1,764  1,785  1,785   1,785
Operating Expenses              441        595       625     698     732    879    842     843    803    843    843    8h3     843
On Ranch Investment               -      1,460     l,h99     489      56      -      _   -      -      -       -      -          -
Incremental Value Herd                                                                                                       4,91o
Balance                        82      (1,276)  (1,299)   (297)    355    357     871    921    942    921     9h2    9h2  5,852
Incremental Balance-              -     (1,358)   (1,381)   (379)    273    275    789     839    860    839    860     860  5,770
One hO ha Irrigated Ranch
Southwest                                                                                                                                 17.5
Sales                         1,384      1,273     2,975   2,975   3,009  3,009  3,009   3,009  3,009  3,009  3,009   3,009  3,oo9
On Ranch Operating Expenses     905      1,165     2,265   2,301   2,301  2,301  2,301   2,345  2,301  2,301  2,301  2,301   2,301
Investment                        -        596        90       -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -
Balance                       479        (488)     620     674     708    708     708    664    708    708     708    708    708
1/
Incremental Balance              --        (967)     141     195     229    229     229    185    229    229    229     229    229
One 40 ha Dairy Farm                                                                                                                       54 3
Sales                           712        562       632     825   1,110  1,390   1,494  1,559  1,624  1,688  1,753   1,818  1,818                        tg
Operating Expenses              422        396       399     407     418    423     438    438    438    438    138     438    438                        F 
On Farm Investment                -         298      108      59       3      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -                        1 ,
Increment Value Herd              -           -        -       -       -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -    748
Balance                       290        (132)     125     359     689    967  1,056   1,121  1,186  1,250  1,315   1,380  2,128
1/
Incremental Balance               -        (422)    (165)     69     399    677     766    831    896    960  1,025   1,090  1,838
V/   Relative to "Before Development" situation.    Negative figures appear between parenthesis.






SPAIN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Retum_n/
1           2           3           1.          5           6            7           8           9          10          11           12          13          14
'000,000 Ptas
Aggregate y: Ranchea IncrosmnteJ. Cash
Balanctss/                                (308)       (693)       (939)       (460)         80         438         602          796         823        841         85o         1878         1962        1985
Net Transfer payment _/                      (27)        (61)        (85)        (56)        (31)         (10)         (9)         (8)         (8)        (8)         (8)           (8)         (8)         (8)
Operation of th  System of Livestock
Procurer nt                              (213)          79          61         288           -           -           -            -                      -           - 
Adjustment in Incremantal Hard Values5/        -           -           -           -           -            -           -           -           -          -           -          (112)       (134)       (176)
Operation of Livestock Devrelopment Agency   (17)        (20)        (21)        (21)        (21)         (19)       (19)         (19)       (19)        (19)        (19)         (19)         (19)        (19)
Sub-Total                                   (565)       (695)       (981)       (249)         28         405         574          769        796         811         823          1739        1801        1782
Adjustsnt in Value of69utput to
Intern&tioasl Prices                       (30)         (89)       (101)       (122)       (120)       (155)       (180)        (206)      (207)       (208)       (208)        (If8)        (41)        (397)
Balance                                     (595)       (784)      (1088)       (371)        (92)         250        394          563        589         606         615          1331        1390        1385
Rate of Return: U percent
1/ Negative figures appear between parenthesis.
2/ Cash balances have been aggregated on the basis of the imestmflt pkmsing.
7/ Taxes minus subsidiea.
Z/ The value of beef equivalent gaimd by ths cattle handlad through the system of livestock procurement haa been credited to the system.
7/ The gain in value of beef equivalent inputed to the system af livestock procurehent also appears in the insividual rancher's cash balances and thus
an adjumtment is necessary to avoid double counting.
6/ The domestic prices of mst products involved in the project (beef, mutton, lamb, wheat, maize and barley) are above world market prices.      It was felt
necessary to ad)ust the value of the project's output in order to reflect ore effectively the contribution of bhe project to the econo.ey in tarms
of import substitution. The    Adjutment in the Value of Output" used is the difference between the incremental values of the output generated by the
project at market prices and at prices at which Spain could reasonably import the products involved in the near future.    The -import" prices used are
expected c.i.f. prices to European ports near Spain and are based in tbrn on historical and current c.i.f. prices.






r         ~~~~~~~~000
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|~  ~   a 9 /                            V7    FRPA NC EA
12-~ ~~I.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 02 fSV
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ietc Deelpmn Prolec
-68-  14c.                    A  -3 2DRI
JUNE   LMueB                                               IC
CANARY ISLANDS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 2ILAD
400
JUNE:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



