Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1048 
Operation Name 
Guyana Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (30%); General education 
sector (20%); Health (20%); Water supply (10%); Private Sector 
Development (10%); Land Administration (10%). 
Project ID 
P078703 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA 
Implementing Agency 
PCPMU 
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [x ] No 
Date PID Prepared 
August 13, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 2, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 24, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
 
Although Guyana has made good progress on stabilizing the economy and implementing structural 
reforms within its overall PRSP framework,  overall growth performance remains disappointing and the 
risk of Guyana for not achieving its MDGs remains high.  To promote growth and reduce poverty, 
Guyana has to deepen and expand its policy reform agenda.  
Under the PRSC I, the Government achieved the following specific measures:  

An HIV/AIDS strategic plan has been approved by the Cabinet, and a program monitoring unit has 
been established; 

An overall education strategy has been adopted and is being implemented; 

A
new Policy Coordination and Program Management Unit has been established in the Office of the 
President;  

A
new National Procurement Act has been passed by the National Assembly which will enhance 
transparency and accountability in national procurement matters;  

A
general tax reform has been implemented; 

Financial management has been improved with the passage of the Fiscal Enactment Act of 2003; 

In the water sector, the two public water companies were merged into one entity, tariffs were 
adjusted, and a private operator was brought in to manage the new enterprise;  

In the sugar sector, an agreed plan to reduce costs by shifting production to a high-productivity area 
and the construction of a new sugar mill, along with a plan to limit salaries and reduce redundant 
workers, is being implemented. 
 
The PRSC II intends to continue supporting the reform program initiated under the PRSC I, with the 
focus on  social sectors, public sector management and private sector development.
 
Page  2
2. 
Proposed objective(s)
 
The overall purpose of the credit is to provide programmatic support for the implementation of the 
country poverty reduction strategy, with the overall objective of reducing poverty and reaching the 
MDGs. The
 
proposed credit
 
offers benefits in creating the economic and institutional environment for 
the sustained implementation of reforms to accelerate growth, reduce poverty, and improve key social 
indicators. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The reforms supported under this project will help to: 

Reduce poverty by improving the quality of human resources, via improved access to health, 
education and water supply services; 

Strengthen public financial management and improve governance, including enhanced 
transparency and accountability; 

Provide a better environment for private sector development, including improvements in land 
titling and administration, and forestry development; and 

Help maintain macroeconomic stability. 
 
The actions fall into three broad groups: a) those aimed at reaching agreement on a plan or action 
program, to be implemented during subsequent phases (20 percent); b) those establishing a legal or 
regulatory framework for a sector (20 percent); and c) those creating institutional mechanisms for 
implementing policies or conducting operations (60 percent). 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The credit is classified as an adjustment operation, and thus does not fall under OP 4.01, and does not 
require a Environmental Impact Assessment. The introduction of new Forestry Act will improve the 
regulatory framework for forestry development, taking account of environmental concerns and 
sustainability issues, as well as the rights of indigenous peoples. This legislation will be carefully 
reviewed during the preparation/appraisal process to ensure compliance with OP/BP 4.36 on Forests, 
and OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples.
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
9 
 Total 
9 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Mustapha Rouis 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4633 
Fax:  
Email: Mrouis@worldbank.org
Page  3
