                                            DOCUMENT       OF
                                         THEWORLDBANK

                                    FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                           REPORT   No. 32001-GY




                   INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION

                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                 FORA

                                        PROPOSEDGRANT

                            INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR 6.7 MILLION
                                (US$9.6 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                                     REPUBLICOFGUYANA

                                                 FORA

      POVERTYREDUCTIONAND PUBLICMANAGEMENTOPERATION




                                            March23,2006



Poverty ReductionandEconomicManagement
CaribbeanCountryManagementUnit
LatinAmericaandthe CaribbeanRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                          $US1.OO = $G200 (January 2006)

                                    E~SCALYEAR
                                January 1 -December 31


                        ACRONYMSANDABBREVIATIONS

BNTF     Basic NeedsTrust Fund                MDRI          MultilateralDebtRelief Initiative
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy          MIS           ManagementInformation System
CIDA     CanadianInternational                 MLHSSS       Ministry of Labor, HumanServices
         DevelopmentAgency                                  and Social Security
CDB      CaribbeanDevelopmentBank              MOF          Ministry of Finance
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability      NDC          Neighborhood DemocraticCouncil
         Assessment                            NPTA         National Procurementand Tender
CPAR     Country ProcurementAssessment                      Administration
         Review                                NPAS         National ProtectedAreas System
DFID     Departmentfor International           OAG          Office of the Auditor General
         Development(UK)                       PCPMU        Policy Coordination and Program
ECLAC    Economic Commissionfor Latin                       ManagementUnit
         America and the Caribbean(UN)         PEPFAR       The President'sEmergencyPlan
EFA/FTI  Educationfor AllEast Track                         For AIDS Relief
         Initiative                            PHRD         Japanese Policy andHuman
EU       EuropeanUnion                                      ResourcesDevelopment
FIAS     ForeignInvestmentAdvisory             PRPMO        Poverty ReductionandPublic
         Service (IFC)                                      ManagementOperation
GDP      Gross DomesticProducts                PRGF         Poverty Reductionand Growth
GEF      Global EnvironmentFund                             Facility (IMF)
GEMP     GovernmentExpenditure                 PRS          Poverty ReductionStrategy
         ManagementProject (CIDA)              PRSP         Poverty ReductionStrategyPaper
GNCB     GuyanaNational CooperativeBank        PRSC         Poverty ReductionSupport Credit
GOINVEST GuyanaOffice of Investment            PSTAC        Public Sector Technical Assistance
GPL      GuyanaPower and Light                              Credit (IDA)
GRA      GuyanaRevenueAuthority                PSIP         Public Sector InvestmentProgram
GUYSUCO  GuyanaSugar Corporation               RDC          Regional DemocraticCouncil
GWI      GuyanaWater, Inc.                     S N A P      Social Impact Amelioration
HIPC     Highly IndebtedPoor Countries                      Program(social fund)
         (program of debt relief)               SPS         State Planning Secretariat
ICA      InvestmentClimate Assessment           STI         Sexually TransmittedInfections
IDB      Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank         UNDP         UnitedNations Development
IMF      International Monetary Fund                        Program
JSA      Joint Staff Assessment                USAID        United StatesAgency for
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation                          International Development
MDGs     Millennium DevelopmentGoals



                            Vice President:  Pamela Cox
                          Country Director:  Caroline Anstey
                           Sector Director: Ernest0 May
                           Sector Manager:   Jaime Saavedra
            Sector LeaderLead Economist      Antonella Bassani
                        Task Team Leader: Homa Z. Fotouhi



                                           ..
                                           11

                                                                    GUYANA
                POVERTYREDUCTIONANDPUBLICMANAGEMENTOPERATION

                                                       TABLE CONTENTS OF


I. INTRODUCTION              .........................................................................................................................................         6
n.     COUNTRY CONTEXT                ................................................................................................................................         6
  A.   COUNTRYBACKGROUND             ................................................................................................................................. 6
  B.   GUYANA'SPOVERTY         REDUCTIONSTRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION                                            PERFORMANCE                .................................... 6
In. THEPROPOSEDOPERATION                       .....................................................................................................................           14
  A.   CONS~STENCY THECAS, LESSONSLEARNEDANDLINKAGESTOPRSC-I..............................................
                   WITH                                                                                                                                                        14
  B.   OBJECTIVES DESCRIPTION
                  AND                          .....................................................................................................................           15
  C.
  D. PRIOR CONDrrIONS........................................................................................................................................ 28
       RATIONALE....................................................................................................................................................           26

  E.   IMPLEMENTATIONMONITORING EVALUATION       AND                             ......................................................................................        28
  F.   POVERTY  ANDSOCIAL IMPACTS               ....................................................................................................................           29
  G.   ENVIRONMENTAL     ASPECTS         ........................................................................................................................... 29
  H. FIDUCIARY   ARRANGEMENTS              .........................................................................................................................           30
  I. RISKS ANDRISK MITIGATION               ........................................................................................................................           31


ANNEXES
     Annex I Guyana-Country at a Glance
     Annex II: Guyana-Key Economic Indicators
     Annex 111:      Guyana-Key Exposure Indicators
     Annex IV:       Timetable for Key ProcessingEvents
     Annex V:        Letter of Development Policy
     Annex VI:       Policy Matrix for PRPMO
     Annex VII:      Auditor General's recommendations
     Annex Vm:       Improving fiduciary oversight inGuyana
     Annex IX:        Status of triggers for PRSC-I1
     Annex X:         Guyana-IMFRelations
     Annex XI:       Guyana-IDBRelations
     Annex XII:      EnvironmentalAnalysis
     Annex XIII:     Debt Sustainability Analysis




The World Bank team for this operation was led by Homa Z. Fotouhi and included Fabiola Altimari,
Antonella Bassani. Mine Coudouel, Clara Ana Coutinho De Sousa, Edward Daoud, Enzo De Laurentiis,
Angela Demas, Dorte Domeland-Narvaez, Lucia Hanmer, George Ledec, Charles di Leva, Judith
Lisansky, Danielle Malek, Mary Mulusa, Moustapha Ndiaye, Emmanuel Njomo, Chris Parel, Mustapha
Rouis, Ricardo Rocha Silveira, Stefka Slavova, Evelyn Villatoro, and Daniel Wallace (Bank staff), and
Kevin Barthel, Lorraine Blank, Max Bradford, Norman Hicks, and Hendrik Koppen (consultants). The
team benefited from guidance from Jan Walker. Margarita Chavez-de Silva provided logistical and
administrative support. The PRPMO team coordinated with Judith Gold and Saqib Rizavi at the IMF,
and with DoraCurrea, MargueriteBerger, Adrienne Pratt, Sergio Varas and Javier Reyes at the IDB.


              POVERTY REDUCTION      AND PUBLICMANAGEMENTOPERATION

                                    PROGRAM   SUMMARY

Recipient:            Republic of Guyana.

Amount:               SDR 6.7 million (US$9.6 million equivalent).

Terms:                IDA grant terms.

ImplementingAgencies: The Office of the President coordinates the implementation of the grant,
                      working with the Ministry of Finance and several line ministries and
                      agencies.

Objectives:           The proposed Poverty Reduction and Public Management Operation
                      (PRPMO) supports the implementation of critical reforms in public sector
                      management identified in the country's 2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy
                      Paper (PRSP) and the 2004 and 2005 Progress Reports. In particular, the
                      proposed operation will contribute to improving the transparency,
                      accountability, and efficiency with which overall resources are utilized
                      across the public sector. The operation follows and builds on the support
                      provided under the Poverty Reduction Support Credit I(PRSC-I), approved
                      by the Board in December 2002.

 Description:         The PRPMO focuses on select reform measures in the following main areas:
                      (i) ensuring a sound macroeconomic framework; (ii)    improving the quality,
                      transparency and accountability of public sector management; and
                      (iii)improving the climate for environmentally-sustainable development.
                      Technical assistance for the implementation of the reform measures
                      supported by the PRPMO i s being provided by IDA through an ongoing
                      Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC, US$4.8 million), a
                      Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant
                      (US$595,0oO), and a Trust Fundfor Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB)
                      grant (USD 285,000).

Benefits:             The PRPMO supports the implementation of the Government's poverty
                      reduction strategy laid out in the PRSP and the PRSP Progress Reports, and
                      for reaching the MillenniumDevelopment Goals. Inparticular, the proposed
                      operation will contribute to improving the transparency, accountability, and
                      efficiency with which public resources are utilized. In addition, the PRPMO
                      will help improve the Government's institutional capacity to monitor
                      progress under the PRSP, evaluate the impact of poverty reduction programs,
                      and improve the statistical information for poverty analysis and targeting.
                      Finally, the operation will support actions to strengthen environmental
                      management and regulations to ensure the sustainable use of Guyana's
                      natural resources.

Risks:                The proposed operation faces a number of risks detailed in the Program
                      Document. In addition to the country's vulnerability to external shocks, two
                      critical risks are: (i)the uncertain political environment in the run-up to
                      general elections due by August 2006; and (ii)weak implementation


                                              4

                          capacity. Politicalrisks for programimplementation arise from the social and
                          ethnic tensions that divide the two main political parties, and have
                          periodically erupted into violence and hampered the implementation of
                          reform measures. While this is a difficult risk to mitigate, the donor
                          community, including the Bank, remains engaged in assisting the
                          Government in improving the dialogue, notably on issues related to key
                          development challenges, both with the opposition parties, as well as with
                          civil society and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). Institutional
                          risks for program implementation remain due to important capacity
                          constraints in conceiving, executing, monitoring, and evaluating government
                          programs. To address this risk, the Bank i s providing technical assistance for
                          key actions supported by the PRPMO under an ongoing Public Sector
                          Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC), a Japanese Policy and Human
                          Resource Development (PHRD) grant (US$595,000) and a Trust Fund for
                          Statistical Capacity Building(TFSCB) grant (USD 285,000) and has closely
                          coordinated with other donors, in particular the IMF and the IDB, in
                          supporting the implementation of the Government's reformprogram.

                          Possible spending pressures from the forthcoming general elections,
                          Guyana's hostingof the 2007 Cricket World Cup and wage demands, as well
                          as exposure to external economic and natural shocks are also possible risks.
                          The Government's macroeconomic program supported by the IMF PRGF
                          arrangement andthe preparation of five-year PSIPs will help maintain public
                          finances on a sustainable path.     Also, in the past, the authorities have
                          demonstrated readiness to adjust policies to meet the targets in the
                          macroeconomic program, and are committed to make additional adjustment
                          ifthe external environment deteriorates.

Schedule of Disbursements: Single-tranche of US9.6 million to be disbursed upon effectiveness and
                          based on actions already taken by the Government prior to Board
                          presentation, as listedinpara. 64.

ClosingDate:              March 31,2007

Project ID Number:        PO78703




                                                   5

                        INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                              PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA PROPOSED
           POVERTYREDUCTIONANDPUBLICMANAGEMENTOPERATION
                                                  FORGUYANA

                                              I. INTRODUCTION

1. This programdocument proposesa Poverty Reduction andPublic Management Operation (PRPMO)
for Guyana, in the amount of SDR 6.7 million (US$9.6 million equivalent). The overall purpose of the
grant is to support the implementation of critical reforms in public sector management identified in
Guyana's 2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the 2004 and 2005 ProgressReports. The
operation continues the earlier support provided by the International Development Association (IDA) to
Guyana under the Poverty Reduction Support Credit I(PRSC-I), approved by the Board in December
2002, andthe strategy outlined inthe Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) of 2002.'

                                           11.       COUNTRYCONTEXT

A.      CountryBackground

2.   Guyana is a low-income, commodity-based small economy which faces significant development
challenges. After rapid growth in the 1990s, following the transformation from a planned to a market
economy, economic activity has stagnated in recent years as a result of external and internal shocks, as
well as weak governance and a resultingpoor investment climate. A difficult security situation andsocial
andpoliticaltensions, includingtensionsbetween the two major political parties which aredeeply divided
along raciallines, have contributed to hampering growth andpoverty reduction efforts, weakenedinvestor
confidence and resulted in high migration of Guyana's skilled manpower abroad.2 Given Guyana's
dependence on sugar and the price liberalization in the EU sugar market planned to take place in 2006-
2010, the restructuring of the sugar sector and the diversification of Guyana's economy are critical for
improving its medium-term growth prospects. Inthis context, establishing an environment for sustained
growth remains the main challenge for the Government in the future. Critical for this i s the need to
improve public sector efficiency, transparency and governance in order to increase the impact of public
resource use and provide an efficient and transparent framework within which the private sector can
operate. Also important is the need to strengthen environmental management and regulations to ensure
the sustainableuse of Guyana's naturalresources which are a major source of economic growth.

B.       Guyana's PovertyReductionStrategyandImplementationPerformance

3.   Guyana's Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). In 2001, Guyana committed itself to fundamental
reforms to re-orient its economic and social policies towards poverty reduction and the achievement of
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of
November 2001 Guyana laid out a comprehensive strategy that rested on seven strategic pillars:

         e        broad-based, jobs-generating economic growth;
         e        environmental protection;
         e        stronger institutions and better governance;
         e        investment inhuman capital, with emphasis on basic education and health;
         e        investment inphysical capital;

'The CountryAssistance Strategy for Guyana was discussed by the Boardon September 19,2002.
2 Guyana has one of the highest rates (89 percent) of skilled migration in the world (see World Bank (2006) International
migration,remittances, and the braindrain, Reportno. 33988).


                                                            6

         e         improved safety nets; and
         e         special intervention programs to address regional pockets of poverty.

4.    Based on the issues raised duringthe consultation process, the PRS placed emphasis on the need to
improve governance andpublic sector accountability. Italso called for expandedspending on basic social
services, including primary health care, primary and secondary education, water and sanitation, and
housing. With economic growth being essential to poverty reduction, the PRS focused on increasing
public sector efficiency through institutional, policy and regulatory reforms, re-orienting the public sector
to support private sector investment and improving infrastructure to complement economic growth. The
goal of the PRS was to attain an average growth of about 2.7 percent per annum during2002-2005, and
5 percent thereafter. It also projected the attainment of the MDGs by 2015. Since the preparation of the
PRSP in 2001 and the reaching of the Enhanced HIPC Initiative Completion Point in December 2003,
two Progress Reports (PRs) on the implementation of the PRS have been prepared by the Government -
the first discussed by the IDA and IMFBoards in July 2004 and the second expected to be discussed by
the Boards inApril 2006.

5.    Assessment of PRS Implementation.                     As noted in the two PRS Progress Reports and
accompanying Joint Staff Advisory Notes (JSANs), Guyana has made progress in implementing its PRS,
but achievements fell short of expectations. Despite a difficult domestic and external environment,
macroeconomic stability was maintained and progress was made in implementing structural reforms, but
Guyana's growth has been weaker than projected. Interms of social indicators, of the 25 PRS goals, 14
were attained or exceeded, with shortfalls in access to treated water and adequate sanitation, infant
mortality, the distribution of house lots and land titles, the percentage of trained teachers in secondary
schools, andHIV/AIDS, where the goal of reducing the infection rate hasbeen frustrated by the growth in
the epidemic, although part of this may reflect better reporting. At the same time, spending for the social
sectors inthe budget at 17.1 percent of GDPexceededthe HIPCtarget by 2.4 percent points in2004. The
2005 PRS Progress Report indicates that there i s a significant risk that Guyana may not attain all the
MDGs by 2015 at the current pace, although the report does not identify which of the goals will not be
met.

6.    On the macroeconomic side, since 2002 the Government has implemented a macroeconomic
program supported by the IMF through a SDR54.55 million Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) arrangement, under which the fifth review was successfully completed at end-January 2006.3
Public savings increased from 7 percent of GDP in 2002 to above 10percent in 2004, reflecting revenue
efforts, wage moderation and the restructuring of loss-making public entities, with the overall fiscal
deficit (after grants) reduced from 6 percent of GDP in 2002 to 4% percent in 2004 reflecting also delays
in capital expenditures on the modernization of the sugar sector. Social spending was maintained at
around 18percent of GDP. Wage policy supported the fiscal effort, as public sector wage increaseswere
kept in line with inflation and attrition in the public enterprises continued, makingroom for new teachers
and nurses. Reflecting prudent monetary policies, average inflation which was 5.4 percent in 2002 and
6 percent in 2003, eased to 4.7 percent in 2004, despite the surge in world oil prices. The external current
account deficit narrowed from 15 percent of GDP in 2002 to 10percent4in 2004, significantly better than
expected, due to solid export performance, and lower-than-expected sugar modernization-related capital
imports. Broad money growth has increased inthe past years consistent with a moderate trend decline in
velocity. Credit to the private sector remained weak during 2001-04, but recovered in 2005;
nonperforming loans declined from 37 percent of total loans in 2002 to 23 percent in 2003 after the
privatizationof a major commercial bank (see para. 15) and further to 16 percent by June 2005, largely as
a result of write-offs. Also, the overall capital adequacy ratio has remained stable at 14 percent and asset
quality has improved considerably. The smaller external current account deficit, coupled with inflows of

  The PRGFarrangement was extended twice and will expire in September 2006.
 After delivery of HIPC assistanceand excluding official transfers.


                                                               7

FDIand concessional external resources, allowed official international reserves to remain at 3.2 months
of imports in2004.

7.   Despite the maintenance of macroeconomic stability and some progress made in structural reforms
(see para. 10-21), growth has remained weak. Real GDP growth fell from an annual average of 7 percent
during 1991-97 to 0.6 percentduring 2000-04. Terms of trade shocks, adverse weather conditions andthe
instability that followed the political cycle adversely affected the dominant agriculture and mining
sectors, andthe economy in general? However, the persistenceof weak growth since 1998 also points to
more fundamental structural weaknesses, namely a poor investment climate and high migration of
entrepreneurial skills, weak governance, andinadequatebasic infrastructure.

8.   Macroeconomic performance in 2005 was strongly affected by significant exogenous shocks that hit
Guyana, notably the closure of OMAI, the iargest gold mine of the country, the severe flooding in early
20056and higher-than-expected oil prices. These adverse shocks (anticipated andunanticipated) have led
to some deterioration in macroeconomic indicators in 2005, although the outcomes were broadly in line
with revised expectations under the IMFprogram. Real GDP is estimatedto have declinedby 2% percent.
This decline was mainly drivenby the impact of the floods on the agricultural sector andthe OMAImine
closure. Indeed, excluding the agricultural and miningsectors, the economy is estimated to have grown at
close to 4 Yz percent in 2005. Average inflation was somewhat higher than expected, having risen to 7.1
percent from 4.7 percent in 2004, mainly as a result of the pass-through of high world fuel prices and
flood-related shortages? The current account deficit i s estimated to have widened to 23 percent of GDP
from 10percent of GDP in 2004, as a result of the oil price increase and a restocking of consumer goods
following the floods. However, sharp increases in remittances and foreign direct investment helped the
Bankof Guyanato maintaingrossofficial reservesat three months of importsandcontributedto maintain
the exchange rate broadly unchanged. Even before the floods, the public sector deficit for 2005 had been
programmed to widen markedly compared to 2004, reflectingthe large public sector investment program
including the restructuring of the sugar sector. The fiscal deficit (after grants) was 13.4 percent of GDPin
2005, well below the targeted 15.1 percent of GDP, due to strong revenues8 and delays in sugar
modernization-related capital expenditures which offset the deterioration in public enterprise operating
balances (the result of lower sugar production due to the floods and higher fuel prices), unplanned
expenditures for emergency repairs to the sea defense system and delays in grants. The fiscal deficit
(after grants) excluding the capital expenditure related to the sugar sector restructuring was 8.6 percent of
GDP. The end-year 2005 broad money growth is estimated to be only slightly above target reflecting a
rebound inprivate sectorcredit, following several years of stagnation.

9.   Concerns regarding debt sustainability in Guyana re-emerged prior to the Multilateral Debt Relief
Initiative (MDRI). The country reached the Enhanced HIPC (E-HIPC) Completion Point in December
2003 qualifying for US$329 million of debt relief in NPV terms, additional to the debt relief of US$256
million in NPV terms obtained under the original HIPC in May 1999. The external debt burden as
measuredby the NPV of external debt to revenue ratio declinedfollowing the E-HIPCCompletion Point,
but rose from 195 percent in 2004 to 217 percent in 2005 and was projected to deteriorate further. Total
public debt as a percentageof GDP increased from 164percent in 2004 to 179 percent in 2005 (see table
1).  However, improved growth prospects and revenue effort, as well as the MDRI, are expected to
significantly improve Guyana's debt outlook (for more details see para. 36 andAnnex XIII).


  This includesan 11percentdeteriorationinthe external terms-of-tradedue to a cyclicaldecline in sugar, rice andgoldprices.
  The floods affected the country's most heavily populatedareas, having been the worse of the last IO0 years. ECLAC assessed
the impactof the floods at 60percentof GDP.
  The Governmentresponded to high fuel costs by reducing the fuel tax from 40 percent in March to 20 percent in September
2005. However, this measure was reversed in November 2005 when the tax was set at 45 percent. Also, the electricity tariff
charged by GPLincludesa 9 percent fuel surchargesince August 2005.
* Consumptiontax on non-oilimportsand corporateincometax collectionswere significantly higher than programmed.


                                                             8

                                        Table 1:Guyana Macroeconomic Framework
                                                              -
                                                                            2002        2003         2004       2001
                                                                                   (Annual percentchange)
             RealGDP Growth                                                   1.1        -0.7           1.6      -2.1
                  ExcludingOMAI mine                                                                              0.:
             Consumer prices (Average)                                        5.4           6           4.7       7.
                                                                         (InpercentofGDP,unlessotherwiseindicated)
             Total revenueandgrants                                         40.5         39.6            44     46.1
             Capitalexpenditure                                              12.6        14.4          16.3      24.:
             Overallpublic sector balance (aftergrants) 1/                   -5.9        -8.7          -4.5     -13.'
                  ExcludingSkeldon2/                                                                   -4.1      -8.1
             Primarysectorbalance31                                           2.1        -2.6           0.9      -4.

             Totalpublic sector debt (end ofperiod)                         193.8      173.1         164.4     178.1
                External1/                                                   168       146.4            137      14:
                Domestic41                                                   25.8        26.7          27.4      30.1

             Externalcurrentaccount 1/5/                                    -15.2       -11.8           -9.5    -22.
             Grossofficial reserves(Inmillions of US dollars)                280          271           225      24
                 Monthsof imports                                             4.4         4.4            3.2      3.
             NPV of debt-to-revenueratio (inpercent) 6/7/                   376.1         208        194.9     217.


              Sources:Dataprovidedby the Guyaneseauthorities; andFundstaff estimatesandprojections.
              I/ Beginningin2004 reflectsinterest paymentsafter original HIPCandenhancedHIPCdebt relief.
              21The Skeldonprojectsupportsthe restructuringof the sugarsector.
              31Excluding the Skeldonproject.
              41Basedon bank holdingsof government debt.
              51 Excluding official transfers
              61Excludesthe letterof credit usedfor financing the GUYSUCOsugarrestructuringproject.
              71NPVcalculationsare basedon a discount rateof 5 percent



  10. Progress has been made in implementing structural reforms, although there have also been
 significant delays. This was in part due to capacity constraints, and a domestic environment marred by
political instability and an outbreak of crime and violence in early 2002. Also, aid inflows did not match
expectations, partly becausethe country did not reach the Completion Point of the Enhanced HIPC until
December 2003. Lower inflows of aid reduced the resources available to implement the PRS. Key areas
of progresssincethe PRS was adopted are detailed below.

  11. First, a medium-term tax reform program was initiatedin August 2003 to broaden the tax base and
increase efficiency, equity and transparency of the tax system.                            Main actions completed include:
 (i) byParliamentoftheValue-AddedTax(VAT)andExciseTaxRegulationsinJanuary2006?
    adoption
 (ii) eliminationoftheMinisterofFinance'spowertograntdiscretionarytaxexemptionsandannual
     the
publication of exemptions beginning in 2004; (iii)                  a limit on most income tax holidays to 5 years, except
for certain sectors, which were limited to 10 years; (iv) an increase in withholding taxes, consumption
taxes for certain services and personal income tax threshold; and (v) progress in strengthening tax


~~         ~~




   The regulationsstipulated a July 1, 2006 implementationdate; a 16percentVAT rate; the VAT threshold; and new excisetax
rates-all    of which would allow a revenue neutral reform. Following the adoption by Parliament of the VAT and Excise Tax
Regulationsin January 2006, the Minister of Finance issued the related commencementorders. However, the implementation
date for the VAT Act, the ExciseTax Act andthe excise tax regulationshas beendelayedto January 1,2007, to allow more time
for public educationandto avoidoverlappingwith the elections, which are constitutionallydue by August 2006.


                                                                      9

administration, particularly in the Guyana RevenueAuthority (GRA), with senior managementbeing put
inplace, autonomy grantedto the GRA initshumanresourcestrategy andnew accountantshiredfor audit
departments. Improvements have also been made to increase local tax bases through the revaluation of
real properties, andby permittinglocal governmentsto seize and sell properties of tax defaulters.

12. Second, to strengthenftscal management andaccountability a new NationalProcurement Act (July
2003) and a Fiscal Management and Accountability Act (the organic budget law, December 2003) were
enacted. Programbudgeting is being gradually introduced inkey ministries. Progresshas also been made
inimprovingpublic expenditure managementwith the introductionof a computerized integratedfinancial
management system (IFMAS) in all Ministries and several agencies. While the Government has
restricted staff recruitment to essential services, there has been some delay in a major reform of the civil
service. The IDBi s currently supporting the Government inthe initialsteps of this reformprogram.

13. Third, in the areas ofpublic enterprise restructuring, the state-owned sugar company, GUYSUCO,
implemented measures to strengthen its financial viability, including introducing a new wage policy
limiting wage increases to inflation starting from 2001, gradually downsizing its workforce over the last
three years, and implementing a profit-orientedmanagementcontract inFebruary 2004.''                     An agreedplan
to reduce costs by shifting production to high-productivity areas and critical investments for the
construction of a modern sugar processing plant and of a co-generation plant are also being undertaken."
An environmental management planfor the new factory has been completed and is being implemented,
and the construction of the factory has begun.                The loss-making state-owned bauxite company,
LINMINE,was restructuredin2003 withthelaying-off ofits workforce andthe signingof amanagement
contract to eliminate losses and preparethe company for privatization. The privatization was completed
in December 2004 (with the Government retaining 30 percent ownership) and the private investor is
currently undertaking a significant investment program. BERMINE, after the laying-off of its workforce
in 2002, was closed in December 2003, and the remaining state bauxite company, AROAIMA, has
remained cash neutral to the budget, and inDecember 2004 signed a management contract to prepare for
its privatization expected in 2006.

14. Guyana Power Limited (GPL) is the main supplier of electricity in the country, with total installed
capacity of 225 MW serving 82 percent of the population. The quality of the electricity service i s
deficient and characterized by important voltage fluctuation and frequent service interruption. GPL was
returned to the Government in April 2003, after an unsuccessful privatization. The Government i s
committed to securing private investment inthe company andhas recently announcedthat resourcesfrom
the Unserved Areas Electrification Programme will be used to finance legal, financial and technical
advisory services in developing a restructuring strategy. The Government has also completed a major
reorganization of the water sector with support of IDA (PRSC-I) and DfID, setting up a new legal and
regulatory framework, merging the two public water companies into one (Guyana Water Inc., GWI) and
bringing in a private operator under a management contract which is now beginning its third year of
operation, The Government also launched a program to increase service access, particularly in urban
squatter neighborhoods and rural hinterlands.             Following an initial disappointing performance and
frictions between the Government, GWI Board and the Management Contractor during 2003 and 2004,
the parties developed, with support from the donor community, a way out of the impasse formalized in a
Memorandumof Understanding in December 2004. Most of the agreements reached have been met and
there i s now a shared vision between the Government, GWI Board and the Management Contractor for
the development of the utility and the sector. GWI i s implementing a combined plan to increase revenues


    Guyana is the lowest cost Caribbean sugar producer and parts of its industry may, if restructured to improve efficiency,
become competitivein the global free sugar market (see World Bank (2005) A Time to Choose: CaribbeanDevelopment in the
2lStCentury,Reportno. 31725-LAC).
   InDecember2004, an agreementwas reachedwith Chinafor a US$32 million concessionalloanfor the constructionof anew
sugar factory and aco-generationplant in Skeldon.

and reduce costs, through a 2005 tariff review, the procurement of a new billing system, improved
collection performance, and reduction in non-revenue water through distribution network repair and
rehabilitation. These efforts and the Government's goal of achieving universal access to safe water are
being supported by the ongoing IDA Water Sector Consolidation Project approved by the Board in July
2005. Under this Project, it has been agreed that by the end of 2006, the Government's strategy for the
long-term development of the sector will be discussed with IDA - with the involvement and participation
of other key donors. The discussion will be focused on the future managementof the utility, the financial
sustainability and financing mechanisms, and medium-termtargets underGWI's operating license.

  15. Fourth, in the financial sector, the state-owned commercial bank, Guyana National Cooperative
Bank (GNCB), was privatized in March 2003, eliminating annual losses of about 0.8 percent of GDP.
The Financial Institutions Act and the Bank of Guyana Act were amended in November 2004 to bring
supervision and prudential regulations in line with international best practices; and on-site inspections of
four banks were completed by end-2005. Revised anti-money laundering legislation is also being drafted
with the support of the IMF. A Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) mission took place in
November 2005. The mission's preliminary findings are that the financial sector's high degree of
segmentation limits financial development and access to credit by low-income households and small
businesses. Also, lending is hampered by the lack of credit information, a recent history of high non-
performing loans and a weak judicial system. The mission concluded that systemic stability i s adequate,
although the concentrated ownership and loan exposure of several banks may render them vulnerable.
Furthermore, Guyana i s largely compliant with the Base1 Core Principles for Effective Banking
Supervision but the mission identified weaknesses in risk management and information sharing among
 supervisory agencies anddeveloped key policy recommendations to strengthenthem.

  16. Fifth, as described inthe PRS and related ProgressReports, key issues in the social sectors are low
quality of education and health services, inadequate access to services in remote and economically-
deprived regions, and high HIV/AIDS prevalence (about 2.5 percent, the second highest in the
Caribbean)." This i s mainly due to the fact that humanresources inthe sector are inadequate innumbers,
insufficiently skilled andpoorly distributed. Education has been clearly articulated as a national priority
in the PRSP. The Government's Strategic Plan for Education (SPE) for 2003-07 builds on the earlier
five-year plan for education that was carried out between 1995 and 2000. The SPE focuses on reducing
repetition rates, increasing secondary school enrollment, reducing overcrowding, reducing student and
teacher absenteeism, improving teacher training and beginning the process of decentralization of school
administration. The plan places special attention on previously underserved students and remote and
economically-deprived regions. Guyana i s one of the 17 countries receiving assistance in its education
reform as part of the Education For All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI). Implementation of the SPE i s
proceeding broadly satisfactorily. Recently, secondyear funding for the implementationof the EFA-FTI
was approved, based on progress made so far. Actions in the next year will focus on implementing a
community-based school-feeding program at the primary level and upgrading hinterland schools. This
will complement the remote areas incentivepayment schemelaunchedby the Government in 2005 to help
retainteachers by topping up the hard-living allowance.

  17. Inresponseto the constraints inproviding adequatehealth services, the Government is undertakinga
major sector reform. To guide this process, it developed the National Health Plan 2003-2007 which
outlines strategies for meeting the health sector goals in the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy
and the Millennium Development Goals, including providing a standard package of minimal services to
all citizens and beginning the process of decentralization to the regions. The Government has made
progress in increasing the number of health workers, increased the spending on essential drugs and
medical supplies by 25 percent from 1998 to 2003, increased the local production of drugs at reduced

 '* This
~~




        national average disguises the high HIV prevalencefound inhigh risk groups, e.g. commercial sex workers (45 percent in
  1997)and attendees of sexually-transmitted-diseases clinics (15.1 percent in 2002).


                                                                11

cost, and rehabilitated the Georgetown Public Hospital.                  The Government i s also implementing its
National Strategic Plan for HZV/AZDS (2002-2006) which seeks to reduce the risk of vulnerability to
infection through prevention and control of the transmission of STIs; promote sexual health; and improve
the quality of life of persons living with AIDS and STIs. The Government has recently completed a
revision and updating of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan through a broad consultative process
involving key stakeholders in Government, civil society and external donors and multi-lateral agencies.
This program is being supported by the Guyana HIV-AIDS Prevention and Control project which is
financed by an IDA grant, the Global Fund, CIDA, programs of the United States (including PEPFAR),
andother bilateralandUNagencies.
18. Guyana implements a range of social insurance and social assistance programs which, in
combination, attempt to address the critical risks and vulnerabilities faced by the population. They are
roughly divided into three broad areas: (i)        programs of the Ministry of Labor, HumanServices and Social
Security (MLHSSS); (ii)        programs in the Ministries of Education andHealth; and (iii) social funds.I3
                                                                                                      two
Guyana's social protection system i s characterized by: (i) of an adequate targeting mechanism and
                                                                      lack
criteria; (ii) benefit levels; (iii)
                low                          understaffing and outdated and inefficient service delivery systems;
(iv) manual recording of program records and deficiencies in the documentation of procedures and
financial management; and (v) outdated social security legislation. The major thrust of the Government's
efforts i s to strengthen its capacity through improved systems, processes and trainingto better manage its
existing social protection programs, before expanding them or starting new ones. To this end, the
Government has carried out, with support from IDA, four studies that provided recommendations in the
areas of management information system, targeting, risk and vulnerability, labor market assessment,
social legislation, and MLHSSS needs assessment.                     On the basis of these recommendations, the
Government has adopted and started implementing a time-bound reform program to rationalize and
improve the impact and cost-effectiveness of the social protection programs of the MLHSSS. The
program has been costed and possible sources of financing for its implementation have been identified.
The program includes the development of a beneficiary identification system to target households,
strengthening the capacity to monitor social protection programs through the use of household survey
data, updating of the Poor Relief and Old Age Pension Laws and harmonization of other legislation as it
relates to social protection. An Inter-ministerial Committee has been constituted under the MLHSSS to
oversee implementation of the action plan.

19. With about 98 percent of land area in Guyana being ~tate-owned'~,policies and transparent
procedures to provide access to land and allow for simple cost-effective title and title transfer for all
tenure groups are critical for the country's economic de~elopment.'~In 1997, the Government launcheda
program of policy, institutional and legislative reforms to relax leasehold restrictions and provide
occupants of public land with the option of convertingfrom leasehold to freehold property (for parcels up
to 15 acres in size). In2000, a 5-year land tenure regularization program was introducedto update land
information and secure existing rights of people and organizations over public lands and to formalize
informal occupation into legally recognized and duly registered land rights. The Guyana Lands and
Surveys Commission (GLSC), which became operational in 2001, has established a land information
database to create and maintain up-to-date lease and land use records and to facilitate rent billing and
collection. In2005, the LandRegistry was moved to GLSC complete with staffing and equipment. As a


l3The MLHSSS manages three principal programsproviding cash assistance to the most vulnerable: Public Assistance, Old Age
Pensions, and Difficult Circumstances. MLHSSS is also responsible for the social security program for formal sector workers,
and the National Insurance Scheme (NIS).      The Ministry of Education provides a number of programs aimed at the poor,
including school feeding covering about 30 percent of those eligible, and subsidies for examination fees and school uniforms.
The Ministry of Healthprovides assistance for medicalcare and, when necessary, travel expenses abroad for poor patients. The
social funds, the SocialImpact Amelioration Programme(SIMAP) and the Basic NeedTrust Fund(BNTF) are largely funded by
donor loansandgrants(IDB andCDB).
l4Within the productivecoastalplain, the percentage of public landis 78 percent.
IsFor a fuller discussion of this issue, see background paper on file Guyana: Land Tenure and Land Adminiswarion, Kevin
Barthel, 2004.


                                                              12

result, land and property information is available at one physical location, making the GLSC a one-stop
shop for property transactions, and the time required for land registry transfers by private land owners has
been reduced from 4 weeks to 14 days. Also, land registry records were computerized in 2005. In
addition, GLSC has careful consultation procedures in place with the Environmental Protection Agency,
the Forestry Commission, the National Parks Commission, the Mining Commission, the Ministry of
Amerindian Affairs, and the National Trust to prevent the issuing of agricultural leases or freehold titles
within existing and officially proposedprotected areas, State Forests, areas with Amerindian populations,
or significant historical sites.

20. Despite recent measures taken to improve the investment climate, significant factors continue to
constrain private sector development and Guyana's competitiveness. At the request of the Government,
an Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) is presently being finalized to identify remaining critical
constraints to private investment, based on a survey of private sector participants. According to the ICA,
in addition to the difficult security and crime situation, there are impediments to clearing goods through
customs (e.g. exporters spend an average of 14 days in customs with a maximum time of 23 days), and
the legal and judicial systems are cumbersome and judicial enforcement i s lengthy.I6 Infrastructure i s a
serious bottleneck: Guyana lacks a deep-water port, its road system is deficient, electric power is
unreliable and expensive, and telecommunications services are limited. Qualified workers and managers
are scarce because of emigration. The Government has recently taken a number of institutional and legal
steps to improve the investment climate so as to promote private sector development. On the institutional
side, the investment promotion agency (GOINVEST) has been revived by the appointment of a new chief
executive officer. The passage of the new procurement law (July 2003), and two acts to reform the tax
system will help improve the investment climate. The tax reform broadens the tax base, improves the
overall efficiency of the system, and reduces the scope for discretion. An Investment Act and a Small
Business Act were passed by Parliament in March 2004 to improve the investment climate. This new
legislation establishes basic guarantees and rights for investors (e.g., against expropriation) and makes
incentives more transparent.        A Competition and Fair Trading Bill, which establishes a National
Competition Commission, was tabled in Parliament in November 2005 and consideration of the Bill by
Parliamentary Select Committee was completed in February 2006. The Fair Trading and Competition
Billis expected to be passedby Parliament by April-May 2006. Inaddition, Guyanajoined the Caribbean
Single Market and Economy at the beginning of the year. The Government is also preparing a National
Competitiveness Strategy in consultation with the private sector and donors to formulate future priority
interventions.

21. The analysis of progress made in poverty reduction i s hampered by limited advancement made in
setting up an efficient monitoring and evaluation framework and the resulting lack of recent data on
poverty levels and trends and by weak social data and data collections systems. A Policy Coordination
and Program Management Unit was set up in the Office of the President to coordinate and monitor the
poverty reduction strategy, support the implementation of structural reforms, coordinate and support the
implementation of social statistics strengthening activities, conduct policy analysis in support of the PRS
and produce the annual PRS progress report. However, there has been no poverty survey since 1999,
therefore there has not been an update on poverty levels since the PRS was adopted, making it difficult to
assess progress in reducing poverty incidence. Also, social data and data collection systems at both
national and local levels remain inadequate. As indicated above, the provision of social services and
economic opportunities in rural and under-privileged communities remain to be adequately addressed.
The 2005 PRS Progress Report details Government's specific interventions and programs to reduce
pockets of poverty, especially in the bauxite-producing town of Linden and its environs, and in hinterland
rural areas populated largely by Amerindians. However, there is a need to formulate an integrated




  According to Doing Business 2006, Guyanaranks 123 out of 155 on the "Enforcing contracts" index


                                                          13

strategy for more equitable geographic development and a supporting monitoring system, particularly
with regards to the development of infrastructure andaccess to basic health andeducation.

                                     111. THE PROPOSEDOPERATION

A.       Consistencywiththe CAS,LessonsLearnedandLinkagestoPRSC-I

22. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in September 2002, marked a
fundamental shift in IDA lending strategy for Guyana.                Drawing on the PRSP consultations and
preparation process, the experience with previous interventions, and guided by the Bank`s mandate for
poverty reduction and its comparative advantage in policy dialogue, the strategy focused on support for
the policy reform agenda of the PRSP. Thus, the CAS made a fundamental shift away from project
lending to a program of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), a series of single tranche
programmatic credits that were linked together as part of a coherent program in support of Guyana's
poverty strategy, as the principal lending vehicle. The pace of reforms was seen as the constraint on how
many PRSCs could be provided, but the first PRSC (PRSC-I) programdocument suggestedthat it might
be possible to proceed at a pace of one PRSC per year.

23. Problems with the PRSC programarose early on when, after Boardapproval of PRSC-IinDecember
2002, the Government delayed the revision of the Procurement Act and, as a result, the credit did not
become effective untilSeptember 2003. At the same time, the macroeconomic programwent temporarily
off-track, political disruptions acceleratedand the implementation of the poverty strategy was hampered.
These delays, and the underlyinginstitutional weaknesses they reveal, indicate that that original schedule
of one PRSC per year was too optimistic andthat the PRSC instrument was illsuited to Guyana's context
(as notedby the PRSC-IImplementationCompletion Reports (ICRs)).             l7


24. The PRSC programwas designed to provide broad-basedsupport for the poverty reduction strategy,
focusing on four of the seven main pillars of the PRSP: (i)         public administration; (ii) in human
                                                                                             reforms
resource development; (iii)basic infrastructure services; and (iv) the productive sectors.                The
development of the reform program supported by PRSC-I provided technical assistance to the
Government in areas such as restructuring of the water and sugar sectors, procurement reform, poverty
and social impact analysis, and improvements in public accountability and transparency. In addition, a
parallel Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) provided support for implementation of the
PRSPandthe PRSC.

25. The reforms supportedby PRSC-I were implementedprior to the effectiveness of that credit, but the
Government has extended and further developed these reforms since then (as detailed in paras. 10-21).
Key conclusions and lessonsidentified inthe ICR are:

        0    the timeframe of future operations should be established with care, taking into account
             possible political obstacles, as well as capacity constraints inthe public service;
        0    technical assistance, through TA creditdgrants or through funding from other donors, i s
             crucial to the program; and
        0    future operations should focus on fewer areas and drill down more in these, have fewer
             trigger actions and exclude measures that are expectedto be taken as part of other operations,
             whether by IDA or other donors.

26. The Policy Matrix for PRSC-I identified expected actions for further development as triggers for
PRSC-11. The Government made substantial progress with respect to those actions (see Annex IX for an


"Simplijied ImplementationCompletion Report -Guyana Poverty ReductionStrategy Credit, ReportPE-PO73851, June28,
2004and Full Irnplemenrution Completion Report, Report 35463, March 17,2006.


                                                          14

overview of the status of implementation of these triggers). Nonetheless, on the basis of lessons learned
from the implementation of the Government's PRSP and the IDA-financed PRSC-I, as described above,
the Government and IDA have agreed that annual PRSCs do not provide the best instrument to support
Guyana's reform program. Instead, a series of development policy operations, timed to match the speed
of the Government's implementation performance, i s better suited to support the country's development
needs and context. Also, on the basis of the lessons learnt from PRSC-I, the proposed PRPMO i s
concentrated selectively on fewer policy areas.

27. Continuity betweenthe two operationsis, however, maintained. The proposed PRPMObuildson the
achievements of PRSC-I and incorporates as prior actions, consistent with its greater selectivity, relevant
actions originally established as triggers for an eventual PRSC-II. The greater selectivity inthe proposed
PRPMO also takes into consideration policy areas being supported by other Bank and donor-financed
operations.

B.      Objectives and Description

28. Objectives.The proposedPoverty Reduction and Public Management Operation (PRPMO) supports
the Government's efforts to implement critical reforms in public sector management and poverty
reduction programs identified in Guyana's 2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the 2004
and 2005 Progress Reports. Buildingon the reforms supported by PRSC-I, the proposed operation aims
to improve the transparency, accountability, and efficiency with which overall resources are utilized
across the public sector. In addition, the PRPMO will help improve the Government's institutional
capacity to monitor progress under the PRSP, evaluate the impact of poverty reduction programs, and
improve the statistical information for poverty analysis and targeting. Finally, the operation will support
actions to strengthen environmental management and regulations to ensure the sustainable use of
Guyana's naturalresources.

29. Description. The proposed PRPMO is a single-tranche development policy operation in the amount
of US$9.6 million equivalent. It i s based on policy measures that have already been implemented by the
Government prior to Boardpresentation. As per the IDA 14 grant eligibility criteria, the operation will be
on IDA grant terms. The operation includes select reform measures in the following main areas:
(i)ensuring a sound macroeconomic framework; (ii)improving the quality, transparency and
accountability of public sector management; and (iii)                    improving the climate for environmentally-
sustainable development. Technical assistance for the implementation of the reform measures supported
by the PRPMO i s being provided by IDA through an ongoing Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit
(PSTAC, US$4.8 million), a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant
(US$595,000) and a Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB) grant (USD 285,000). The
Policy Matrix inAnnex VI also details policy actions that could be supported by a follow-up development
policy operation (PRPMO-11)to further the Government's reformprograminthe above areas.

1.      Ensuringa SoundMacroeconomicFramework

30. The 2005 PRS Progress Report defines as main goals for Guyana in the medium-term: (i) reverse                      to
the negative or low growth rates of the last five years; (ii)           to rehabilitate the infrastructure damaged by the
floods and adopt mitigating measures to minimize the impact of future disasters; and (iii) create an               to
environment that attracts private investment and stems the migration of the country's skilled population
and entrepreneurs. Restructuring the sugar sector and diversifying the economy are the critical challenges
for improving the country's medium-term growth prospects. Indeed, the country i s highly dependent on
fuel imports" and sugar exports, and the high oil prices and the impending reduction in EU sugar

l8Guyanahas one    of the highest oil-intensity in the world and oil imports are estimated to have reached 27 percent of GDP in
2005. This reflects the energy intensity of its industries (e.g., mining, sugar, fishing and timber), high transportationcosts and


                                                                 15

preferences will require difficult reforms and adjustments. Although the reduction in the EUsugar price
i s somewhat slower than had previously been anticipated, providing some additional time to restructure
the industry, annual export losses could reach as high as 4 percent of GDP. Mining and forestry have
recently attracted significant foreign direct investment, thus adding to the opportunities to diversify and
spur growth. The country's abundant wildlife could also become a foundation for Guyana's eco-tourism
industry. To achieve its medium-term goals of renewed growth anddiversification, the Government has a
program of reforms and sectoral adjustments. First, it plans to further strengthen the fiscal performance
and pursue an external debt strategy that ensures debt sustainability. The 2006 macroeconomic targets
and a revised medium-term (2007-10) macroeconomic framework were recently agreed by the
Government as part of the fifth review under the IMF PRGF arrangement which was successfully
completed at end-January 2006. In addition, the Government intends to continue structural reforms to
improve the investment environment by, inter alia, enhancing governance and transparency, and focusing
the public investment programon improving infrastructure and increasing access to basic social services.
Also, the Government plans to create an adequate legal and regulatory framework to ensure the
sustainability of Guyana's natural resources.

31. The economy is projected to recover in 2006 (with an estimated real GDP growth rate of 4 percent),
ledby a reboundinsugar productionandcontinued expansion inbauxiteexports. While the impact of the
January 2006 floods is still to be assessed, it is expected that it will be less severe than that of the 2005
floods, given that they have taken place in less populated areas and seem not to have affected the sugar
sector ina major way." During2007-10, growth i s projected to average about 3 percent, as a result of the
continued recovery of sugar and rice production, ongoing new investment in the bauxite and gold sectors
and the positive impact of ongoing reform efforts. The large expansion in public sector investment will
also boost the economy. This is broadly in line with the historical ten-year average of 2.3 percent, but
representsan acceleration ingrowth compared to the most recent five year period (2000-04) when growth
averaged only 0.6 percent. Such a recovery will however also strongly depend on further progress on
structural reforms, particularly improvements in the efficiency of public resource use and in the
investment climate, and on a stable security situation. Inflation is projected to remain at 7 percent in 2006
as a result of the pass-through of high world fuel prices to consumers, and to average 3 percent during
2007-2010.

32. Against the background of highoil prices and the impending reduction in the EUsugar preferential
regime, the Government intends to pursue fiscal consolidation in 2006. Thus, while the overall deficit
(inclusive of grants and spending on the new Skeldon sugar factory) for 2006 i s targeted to remain at 13%
percent of GDPas in2005, the deficit net of Skeldon-related spending would narrow from 8% percent of
GDP in 2005 to about 5%percent of GDP. The Government intends to underpin this improvement by
maintaining the revenue effort, containing wage and capital spending, and improving the fiscal
performance of the public enterprises. Inparticular, although the authorities have increasedthe threshold
for the income tax to reduce the burden on the poorest households and reduce tax brackets, they plan to
offset this by a transfer from semi-autonomous and statutory bodies of about `/z percent of GDP.
Furthermore, the public enterprises' operating balances are expected to improve, reflecting a recovery in
sugar production and the full-year effect of a recently introduced fuel surcharge on electricity tariffs."
Central government expenditures - which were boosted in 2005 by flood-related expenditure - are
projected to decline in 2006. To permit an increase in old-age pensions, the authorities agreedto limit the
growth in the wage bill to 1 percent in real terms, which would still permit some increase in the number


low fuel efficiency, particularly in the production of electricity. The authorities are seeking to reduce technical losses of the
electricity system with IDBassistance. Also, a co-generationfacility has beenincluded in the Skeldon modernizationproject and
i s expected to provide 8 percent of the country's energy needs.
    An ECLAC assessment took place in February2006 and a final report is expectedshortly.
2"  Moreover, the authorities agreed that the consumption tax rate on petroleum (currently at 45 percent) would be adjusted as
necessary to achieve the budget revenue target.


                                                                16

of teachers and strengthening of the police force to combat a recent upsurge in crime. Election-related
expenses (associated with voter registration, training, and security) would be contained to 0.8 percent of
GDP in 2006 in line with commitments made under the IMFPRGF. The MDRIis expected to reduce
Guyana's debt service by about 1percent of GDP per year. The Government has allocated these savings
in the 2006 budget to projects that support the achievement of the MDGs and plans to undertake these
expenditures only once these resourcesare madeavailable by the IMFandIDA.

33. Capital expenditures are projected to remain high in 2006 (27 percent of GDP compared to 24.5
percent in 2005) and then gradually decline to 15 percent of GDP in 2010, in line with the historical
averages in Guyana. This largely reflects the exceptional investment outlays on the new sugar plant at
Skeldon, which i s part of a sugar sector restructuring program aimed at improving competitiveness of
Guyana's sugar industry. Inaddition to the capital expenditure on the Skeldon restructuringproject (13.9
percent of GDP over 2006-2008), other large public investment projects include a cricketkports stadium
(3.5 percent of GDP over 2005-2007), investment inthe Unserved Electrification Program (2.4 percent of
GDP over 2006-2010) and works inthe Moleson Creek-New Amsterdam road (3.2 percent of GDP over
2006-2010). The cricket stadium i s being built to allow Guyana to host the 2007 Cricket World Cup,
along with other Caribbean countries.            Financing of US$25 million has been secured from the
Government of India (a US$5 million grant and a US$20 million concessional loan). Under the PRGF
arrangement, the Government has provided assurances that no government finance would be used for
ancillary housing and other needs which would be financed by the private sector. Shortfalls in net
operating balances for the stadium are to be covered from increases in taxes on liquor and airport
departures. Another significant investment, the construction of the Berbice bridge, i s being financed
mainly by the private sector, with some involvement from the National Insurance Scheme (NIS). The
authorities have committed to limit public liability to the investment by the ."TIS; a private company has
been established and a contractor has been selected recently, with construction expected to start by end-
April 2006.

34. The Government intends to pursue further fiscal consolidation during 2007-10. Fiscal adjustment,
supported by the maintenance of a strong revenue effort, containing growth in wages, gradually reducing
other current spending, lower capital expenditure through better prioritization and a successful sugar
sector modernization are projected to shift the primary balance of the overall public sector from a deficit
of 1percent of GDP in2006 (excluding Skeldon) to a primary surplus of 1 percent of GDP by 2010. The
overall fiscal deficit (after grants) would fall from 13% percent of GDP in 2006 to around 2.7 percent by
2010.

35. The current account deficit i s expected to widen to 26% percent of GDP in 2006 as a result of high
world oil prices and public investments related to the restructuring of the sugar sector and other large
projects. Nevertheless, capital inflows will enable a moderate increase in official reserves, and the
remaining financing gap in 2006 of about US$19 million could be closed by US$8 million under the
Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) and by additional donor support. During 2007-10, the fiscal
adjustment, coupled with a somewhat improved growth outlook and the completion of the Skeldon
project, would narrow the external current account deficit to 14 percent of GDP by 2010 and enable
international reserves to reach 3% months of imports.                The remaining financing gap would be
manageable, and could be covered by MDRIdebt relief and some additional balance of payment support
from donors.''    Given the uncertain external environment and the related macroeconomic risks, the
Government program may require further fiscal tighteningto address unexpected developments.




~~




  Guyanahas access to concessionalfinancingunder the PetroCaribeAccord.


                                                          17

                                     Table 2: Guyana: SelectedEconomic Indicators

                                                     Estimate                                         Projected
                                                             2005            2006            2007            2008            2009      201c
                                                                                               (Annual percent change)
ealGDPGrowth                                                   -2.8           4.2              3.8             3.5            3.2       2.7
;DP deflator(factor cost)                                       4.2           3.8                 4            3.1            3.0       2.c
'onsumerprices (average)                                        7.1           6.9              4.4             3.1            3.0       3.(
'onsumerprices(end ofperiod)                                    9.0           5.4              3.5             3.0            3.0       3.(

                                                                                        (InpercentofGDP)
latioual accounts
ivestsnent                                                    31.2            34.2            29.6            27.6            26.7     27.'
  Privatesector                                                 6.7            7.0              8.0             9.8           11.0      12.'
  Public sector                                               24.5           27.2             21.6            17.8            15.7     15.(
lationalsaving                                                 12.4           12.0             12.6            14.3           14.8      14..
  Privatesector                                                 5.1            2.4              4.7             5.2            4.7      4.'
  Public sector 11                                              7.3            9.5              8.0             9.1           10.1      10.1
xternalSavings 11                                              18.8           22.3             16.9           13.3            11.9      12.'

lodinancial public sector
evenue andgrants                                              46.8           47.6             44.2            43.6            42.8     41.1
xpenditure                                                    60.3            61.2             54.8           50.2            47.2     45.1
  Current                                                     35.8           34.0             32.7            31.9            31.0     30.(
  Capital                                                     24.5           27.2             22.1            18.3            16.2     15.(
    ExcludingSkeldon                                           19.7           18.8             17.8           17.1            16.2      15.1

lverallbalance (after grants) 21                           -13.4             -13.6           -10.1             -6.1           -3.9      -2.'
  ExcludingSkeldon                                                            -5.2             -5.8            -4.9           -3.9      -2.'

otal public sector debt (end of period, without
IDRI)                                                        178.6           175.4           166.8           159.9           152.8     146.:
  External2J                                                 148.0           148.0           144.0           139.2           136.8     133.'
  Domestic3/                                                  30.6            27.4            22.8            20.7            16.0      13.1

xternal publicsector debt (end of period, with
IDRI)                                                       148               115              115              113           113       11

                                                                   (InmillionU.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated; end ofperiod)
x t e d sector
xternal current accountbalance(mpercentof GDP)
I 4/                                                       -22.6             -26.5            -19.5           -15.4          -13.8       -1

;TOSS officialreserves                                     240.0            250.0            269.4           286.4           303.2     309.
  Monthsofimports                                            3.0               3.2              3.3             3.4            3.5       3.
                                                                               (In percent, unlessotherwise indicated)
'VP ofexternaldebt-to-revenue ratio 5/6/7/                 217.1             190.0           197.0            197.0          201.0     203.

lebt-serviceratios U
xports of goods andnonfactorservices                           3.4             2.8              2.9             3.4            3.0       3.
Iemoraudumitems:
 ominalGDP(G$ billion)                                       157.9           170.8           184.5            196.9          209.3     221.

'ources:IMF
  Includesofficial currenttransfers.
'Beginning 2004 reflectinterestpaymentsafter original HIPC and enhancedHIPC debt relief.
'Based onbankholdingof government debt.

1 Excludingofficialtransfers.

f Excludes the letterof creditused for financingthe GUYSUCO sugarrestructuringproject.
  From2006, projectionsassume MDRI relief.
f
' NPV  calculationsare basedon a discount rate of 5 percent



                                                                      18

36. Guyana's debt sustainability i s projected to improve under the revenueand growth outlook described
above. Before accounting for the MDRI,the NPV of external debt-to-revenueratio i s projected to peak at
about 238 percent in 2007,22compared with 260 percent in the IMF PRGF Fourth Review (September
2005).  23 The Joint World BanWIMF DSA paper (Annex XIII) concludes that Guyana's risk of debt
distress after the implementation of the MDRIis moderate since the initiative would significantly reduce
its level of indebtedness. With MDRI, the NPV of external debt-to-revenue ratio would decline to a peak
ratio of about 203 percent. This improvement would need to be sustained through prudent and effective
fiscal Government policies to avoid a re-emergence of debt sustainability concerns in the future, notably
through containing new borrowingandbetter prioritizing the public sector investment program.

2.       Improvingthe Quality, TransparencyandAccountabilityof Public Sector
         Management

37. The process of structural reform that started in 1989 affected various aspects of public sector
management. The wide-ranging privatization program reduced the size of the public sector, while the
management of certain enterprises that remained in state hands was transferred to the private sector.
Some government agencies were made semi-autonomous (e.g. Guyana Revenue Authority (GRA) and
Office of the Auditor General (OAG)). Significant strides were made in strengthening public financial
management, a process that i s ongoing (see below). Finally, as part of an IDB-funded Public Sector
Modernization program, some overview studies were conducted of public service functions as well as of
the ministerial structure of government.

38. Despite these positive developments, the organization and functioning of the Government remains
weak. Decision making is highly centralized, in part a response to institutional weaknesses. The
resulting inefficiencies are exacerbated by a poorly qualified and motivated public service and high
turnover. Since the late 1990s, Guyana's public sector has undergone a series of modernization and
renewal initiatives, some directed to individual ministries and agencies, others more broadly based.
However, notwithstanding some incremental improvements, further efforts would be required to ensure
that the public sector plays its full role in supporting the private sector as the main engine of growth.
Furthermore, the existence of discretionary powers can create opportunities for inefficient use of public
resources and corruption.          Indeed, Guyana ranked 117 out of 159 countries in Transparency
International's 2005 survey. The IDB i s currently providing technical assistance for the development of
an overall public sector modernization program. Under this assistance, the Government is preparing
institutional and organizational capacity assessments for each ministry, reviewing human resource needs
and undertaking staff audits as inputs for the Public Management Modernization Program to be
implemented over the mediumterm.

39. The proposed PRPMO supports the Government's efforts in four critical areas for improving the
quality of, and transparency and accountability in, public resource management: (i)               improvingthe quality
of the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP); (ii)strengthening public financial management;
(iii) continuing the public procurement reform process; and (iv) improving the ability of the Government
to monitor progressunder the PRS andundertake evaluation of programs.

Improvingthe qualityof the PSIP

40. Issues. The State Planning Secretariat (SPS) within the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is responsible
for preparing, and annually rolling over, a Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP). However, during


22 Without MDRI.
23 The NPV of external debt is computed usiag a uniform 5 percent discount rate, in line with the methodology of joint Fund-
Banklow-income country debt sustainability framework.


                                                           19

2001-2004 only one PSIPwas prepared inthe context of the PRSPin200Iandthere was no update since.
Duringthisperiodthe Government pursuedan ambitious program of public sector investment -expanded
from the 2001 PRSP and mainly aimed at upgrading infrastructure and restructuring public enterprises,
but most recently including a cricket stadium for which it has received significant concessional financing
from the Indian government. However, the high level of public investments was not accompanied by
improved growth performance, thus raising questions about efficiency and transparency of public
resource use. Also, in early 2005, the IMF and IDA started to raise concerns about Guyana's debt
sustainability in light of the external borrowing required to finance the public investment program. In
addition, the new organic budget law enacted in 2003 required the preparation of a PSIP as an essential
input into the medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF). The Government, therefore, undertook to
prepare and publish a new five-year rolling PSIP and establish clearly-stated assumptions and
methodologies and a transparent rankingsystemfor project selection.

41. Government program and PRPMO support.                  In August 2005, the authorities prepared and
published, with IDB and World Bank technical assistance, a five-year rolling PSIP consistent with the
PRS objectives. On the basis of the results of the IMF-World Bankjoint Debt Sustainability Analysis
(DSA), in September 2005 the authorities revised the five-year PSIP to ensure its consistency with
macroeconomic and debt sustainability. The revised PSIP was made public and integrated into the 2006
budget (submitted to Parliament on hnuary 23, 2006)-this         i s a PRPMO prior Board condition. As
statedinthe PRS 2005 ProgressReport, the Government intends to revise on an annualbasis the five-year
PSIP in light of macroeconomic and debt sustainability considerations. In addition, feasibility studies
will be completed for all new projects of over US$10million (net of grants), excluding those financed by
multilateral financial institutions, and submitted to the IDB or the World Bank for an assessment of their
economic, environmental and financial viability. Policy actions by the Government before PRPMO-I1
are: (i) satisfactory execution of the 2005-2009 PSIP; (ii) publication of updated five-year rolling
                                                             annual
PSIPs, consistent with PRS objectives, debt sustainability and project selection and rankingmethodology
contained in the 2005-2009 PSIP, and their integration in the annual budgets; and (iii)    preparation of
feasibility studies for all new projects above US$10million (net of grants), excluding those financed by
multilateral financial institutions, andtheir submission to the IDBor the World Bank for an assessment of
their economic, environmental andfinancial viability. A program of technical assistanceto strengthenthe
Government's capacity at the Ministry of Finance to produce annual rolling PSIP is ongoing with IDB
support.

Financial Management

42. Issues. The Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA), completed in2002 as part of the
preparation of PRSC-I, considered Guyana's public audit and financial management systems and
processes as basic and fragmented (see Box Ifor a summary of the main CFAA findings). It pointed to a
number of critical weaknesses in budgeting, accounting, audit and oversight of the Government's
finances. While the IDB and CIDA have been assisting the Government with reform of the budget and
accounting systems, progress has been slow. More recently, however, significant steps have been taken
to modernize financial managementinthe public sector.

Governmentprogram and PRPMO support

43. Audit. The new Audit Act was prepared by the Government and enacted by Parliament in April
 2004-this   i s a PRPMO prior Board condition. It makes the Office of the Auditor General a semi-
 autonomous agency responsible to the Parliament. As stated in the Act, the Auditor General (AG) is the
external auditor of the public accounts of Guyana. In that capacity, he has "complete discretion in
 examining and reporting on the receipt, disbursement and control of public money, and on the economy,
 efficiency and effectivenessin the use of such monies." In other words, the AG has the power to conduct
 performance and value-for-money audits and reports to the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in

                                                      20

Parliament. Regulations detailing rules, policies andproceduresregardingthe managementand operation
of the Audit Office and the conduct of audits were preparedby the Government and, following approval
by Parliament inMay 2005, were gazettedinJuly 2005-this                 i s a PRPMO prior Boardcondition.

                                           Box 1:Summary of the CFAA MainFindings

         The mainfindings ofthe CFAA(2002) were:

               The country'spublic financial management systems andprocessesare basic and fragmented.
               The best developedGovernment's financialmanagement systems relate to budget preparation. While
               efforts have been made to move the recurrent budget to a program basis, capital budgets are still
               presentedon aline itembasis, and are not coordinatedwith the recurrentbudget.
               The Government's accountingsystem in place is a throwback to British colonial times. It is usedto
               trackgovernment accountsin the aggregate and not as amanagement tool by individualministries.
               Given that there is ad hoc integrationbetween the budget and accounting systems, and no uniform
               government-wide approachto modernfinancial management methods, the internalcontrol systems in
               place are the tailoredcreations of some agencies. They are not adaptablefor widespreaduse, andthey
               are notusefulfor centralizedoversight.
               The Office of the Auditor General (OAG) has demonstrated genuine professionalismand a refreshing
               independence,but its resourcesare ofteninsufficient. The resources and independenceof OAG need
               to be increased.
               The Parliamenthas aconstitutionalrole to oversee public sector management; however, it is unableto
               exercisethis function.
               In the absence of integrated systems, respect for operating rules, a functioning public oversight
               mechanism, and a recognized medium for enforcement, political leaders exercise considerable
               discretioninrunningpublic agencies.

4.4. In2004, the Office of the Auditor-General's (OAG)report identified a number of key deficiencies in
the financial operations of the Government and the reform program supported by the proposed PRPMO
has drawn upon major findings in the report to strengthen targeted reforms in related areas. The first i s
the need for increased transparency and accountability in the use of the proceeds from the Guyana
Lotteries24(also flagged in previous OAG reports). Specifically, the report identified the need to define
clear criteria for the selection of activities to be financed from the Lotteries Fund, regularly disclose
information on activities proposed and funded, including fundingamounts, andcarry out annual audits of
the Fund's operations. Second, the Auditor-General' s report recommended that the Wildlife Division
funds be accounted for and remitted to the Consolidated Fund, and the organization be transferred from
the Office of the President to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).25 The Wildlife Division
should be an integral part of the EPA operations and all revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities
relatingto this division should be recorded inthe books and accounts, and hence reflected inthe financial
reporting, of the EPA. Other key deficiencies identified in the Auditor-General's report are: (i)          the need
to make public (i.e. send to the Parliament) the audits of the Guyana Revenue Authority (GRA) (this had
not been done since 1999); (ii)          the fact that the Commissioner and Deputy-Commissioner of the GRA
held short-term contracts, which resulted in lack of job security and decreased ability to provide frank
advice; and (iii) needto table all external loans inthe National Assembly (action required by the law),
                   the
thereby increasing transparency. As part of the PRPMO-supported reform agenda, the Government has
addressed these deficiencies (see details in Annex VII). This ensures compliance with the Audit Act
provision that the Government act on the Auditor General's recommendations and increases the
accountability and efficiency in the use of public sector resources. Implementation of the Auditor
General's key recommendations, as detailed in Annex VII, i s a PRPMOprior Board condition. Further


24The amount involvedis estimated at G$2.2 billion, or US$IO.9 million.
25The amountinvolvedis estimated at G$168 million, or US$832,000, representingrevenuesderivedfrom the operations of the
Wildlife Division prior to the Office of the Presidentassumingresponsibilityof the Division.


                                                             21

progress in public financial management improvement program as evidenced by satisfactory
implementation of the new Audit Act i s a policy actionby the Government before PRPMO-IT.

45. Fiduciarv Oversight. To improve public financial management, the Government agreed, under
PRSC-I, and on the basis of the CFAA recommendations:6             to strengthen fiduciary oversight, which has
three elements: (i)ensuring effective parliamentary oversight over public finances (Study 1); (ii)
curtailing discretionary powers of public officials (Study 2); and (iii)   ensuring effective public disclosure
of assets of officials (Study 3). In 2005, consultants financed by the PSTAC prepared studies on each of
these element^?^    The Government reviewed the recommendations of these studies and discussed them
with key stakeholders who had also provided inputto the consultants duringthe preparation of the report
and which includedmembers of the opposition parties, members of Parliament, public officials, and civil
society and private sector representatives. Out of 60 recommendations detailed in the studies, the
Government identified 30 for implementation in a first phase (January 2006-December 2007). These
include agreement on capacity-building measures for improved oversight of public finances by
Parliament; limitation of discretionary powers through internal rules, external reporting and training
needs; and improved system for public disclosure of assets through enforcement of existing disclosure
rules and definition of the roles and responsibilities of the Integrity Commission and related agencies.
The Government's selection of an initialset of 30 recommendations for first phase implementation was
informed by the importance of these recommendations for strengthening fiduciary oversight andconcerns
about overburdening the already heavy Parliamentary agenda.                  The recommendations related to
Parliamentary functions and reforms (from Study 1) were discussed and endorsed by the Parliament in
December 2005, with support from the main Opposition Party. The Government has adopted a time-
bound action plan for implementation of these 30 recommendations and has already started its
implementationwith: (i)    submission to Parliament of draftrevisedStanding Orders; (ii) setting up of a
                                                                                             the
project execution unit in the Office of the President to oversee implementation of the recommendations
from Studies 2 and 3; and (iii)preparation of terms of reference for the implementation of
recommendations related to reforms on limiting discretionary powers and disclosing public officials'
assets (Studies 2 and 3).            The Government has committed to reviewing the remaining 30
recommendations for implementation after completion of the first phase. Bi-partisan support of the
fiduciary oversight reform agendarepresents an unprecedented andencouraging development in a highly
polarized environment, highlights the commitment across the political spectrum to these reforms and
contributes to their sustainability.        The donor community has also committed to support the
implementation of the action plan through the provision of technical assistance. Launching of the first
phase of the fiduciary oversight strengthening program is a PFWMOprior Board condition (see details in
Annex VIII). Completion of the first phase of the fiduciary oversight reform agendaand launchingof the
secondphase is apolicy action by the Government before PRPMO-II.

Procurement

46. Governmentprogram and PRPMO support. In 1999, the Bank carried out a Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR), whose recommendations were supported by the PRSC-I(see Box 2). Under
PRSC-I, the rules governing public procurement were revised by the 2002 National Procurement Act,
which was subsequently amended by the Tender and Procurement Act of 2003. The PRPMO supports
continued implementation of the Government's procurement reform program, with a major focus on the
adequate application of the recently-passed legislation and strengthening of its institutional framework.
As part of this reform agenda, accompanying regulations were adopted in December 2004. The aim of
the two Acts and regulations i s to make public procurement more efficient, competitive and transparent.
The 2003 Act established a National Procurement andTender Administration (NPTA)headedby a Board
and supported by a Secretariat. Members of the National and Regional Tender Administration Boards


26See PRSC-I, Annex VIII, Letter from GovernmentEndorsingCFAA Work Program.
27BradfordandAssociates Ltd, GuyanaFiduciaryOversightProject, July 4, 2005.


                                                        22

have been appointed in 2005 and the NPTA Secretariat i s being staffed. Also, standard bidding
documents andevaluation criteria have been developedaccording to international standards. Although the
Constitution foresees the establishment of an independent Public Procurement Commission to provide
oversight for procurement matters, members of the commission have not yet been appointed. These
appointments require action by Parliament where 2/3rd majority i s needed, which has not been possible
due to lack of agreement on the candidates' list.

                                           Box2: Summaryof the CPAR MainFindings

         The main findings of the CPAR(1999) were:

         0    Prior to the adoption of new legislation in 2002-2003, public sector procurement o f goods, works and
              services was governed by a set of very old and obsolete rules and regulations. The legal procurement
              framework was deficient and outdated and regulations did not contain the essential aspects for a
              transparent andefficient procurement system.
              The organizational structure and administrative arrangements and procedures to handle procurement
              matters at the central level, i.e. the Central Tender Board (CTB), are inadequate to respond in an
              efficient and transparent way to the procurement requirements of the executing agencies.
         0    Under the present regulations, within the approval limits authorized by law, the CTB and Regional
              Tender Boards are responsible, among other matters, for the appointment of the members o f the
              evaluating committees who make their independent evaluation of the given tenders.                     Then the
              evaluators meet as a group to discuss separate evaluations and submit a report and recommendations
              for award. Since the tender board is incharge of approving the award, such an arrangement creates a
              situation of conflict o f interest.

47. In order to assess actual progress made so far in the reform of the procurement framework, the
Government requested the Office of the Auditor General to review procurement practices used since the
enactment of the new Procurement Act and regulations. The review conducted in late 2005 identified
some delays in staffing the National and Regional Tender Boards and some weaknesses in compliance
with record-keeping requirements. As indicated in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (see
Annex V), the Government intends to act on these recommendations in2006. PRPMOprior Board action
i s continued satisfactory implementation of the regulatory and institutional public procurement
framework reform as evidenced by the adoption of the amended National Procurement Act and of
Regulations and their dissemination, appointment of staff for the National and Regional Tender Boards
and Secretariat, adoption of standard biddingdocuments and evaluation criteria, and completion of first
annual audit of procurement operations. Additional actions are underway with IDA financing under
PSTAC including strengthening institutional capacity, carrying out a comprehensive training program,
and developing other implementing tools such as a procurement monitoring and evaluation system, and
an e-procurement strategy. The existence of a functional procurement monitoring and evaluation system
providing adequate information for performance assessment and feedback into policy-making and the
conduct of annual audits of procurement operations are actions expected before PRPMO-II.                                The
medium-termoutcomes for procurement reform are: (i)                improvement inthe scoring of the OECD baseline
indicators; and (ii)    better value for money and improvement in the perception of increased transparency,
efficiency and service delivery quality. The first will be measuredon the basis of the Baseline Indicator
System (BIS).28 A baseline for Guyana is being developed as part of ajoint exercise of the Government
of Guyana, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. The exercise will be repeatedin
2008 in order to measure improvement in the medium-term. The baseline for value for money and
perception of increased transparency, efficiency and service delivery quality will be provided by an



28 The BIS was developed by the OECD-DACTWorldBank Roundtable on StrengtheningProcurementCapacities in Developing
Countries. This tool has several purposes: (i) ensure consistent diagnostics by all donors; (ii) help formulate strategies to
strengthen systems; (ii) enable self-assessment and monitoring; (iii) monitor progress periodically against agreed benchmarks;
and (iv) measureprogressin meetingthe Paris Declarationgoals.


                                                             23

assessment of the purchasing strategy of the Government which measures its efficiency and cost
effectiveness, and by simple, statistically relevant private sector surveys which will be repeatedin 2008 to
measureprogress.

Monitoring and Evaluation

48. Zssues and Governmentprogram. As indicated above, the analysis of progress made in poverty
reduction has been hamperedby lack of an effective monitoring and evaluation framework. In 2002, the
Government prepared a monitoring plan for the PRS. However, during 2002-04, implementation of that
plan was slow due to delays inestablishing and staffingthe monitoring unit andcreating a viable system
of incorporatingcivil society into the monitoring process, and limitedprogress made in strengthening the
statistical data collection system. The Policy Coordination and ProgramManagement Unit (PCPMU) in
the Office of the President was finally establishedand staffed in 2003. The Government also set up five
structures to implement its monitoring and evaluation strategy: a PRS M&Eunit; PRS focal points in line
ministries and agencies; a PRS steering committee; regional committees; and thematic groups. The PRS
M&E Unit is responsible for facilitating links among the other four monitoring structures and for
reporting on progress in the poverty reduction program. However, the role of the Steering and of the
Regional Committees needs to be strengthened, ensuring that they are adequately equipped and fully
institutionalized to monitor the implementation of the PRS. The Statistics Bureau, which has the main
responsibility for national accounts, the census and household surveys, remains under-equipped and
poorly staffed. A planfor strengthening it has been developed, and is being carried out with the support
of the PSTAC, as well as assistance from the IDB and the UNDPanda World Bank TFSCB grant. There
has not been an update on poverty levels since the PRS was adopted in2001, makingit difficult to assess
progress in reducing poverty incidence. Also, a critical challenge going forward i s the lack of a good
system for tracking budget expenditure that would permit monitoring of government programs by sector
andby major poverty-related programs andinformthe budget preparation program.

49. PRPMO Support. Under the support of the proposed operation, in2005 the Government accelerated
its efforts to set up a monitoring and evaluation system. Specifically, it: (1) publisheda summary of 2002
Census data (2) has launched the Household Income and Expenditure Survey which is expected to be
completed by end-2006; (3) started publishingon a semi-annual basis executed current and capital public
expenditures by sector and priority poverty-related programs (first publication took place in January
2006); and (4) prepared a map outlining distribution of access to basic services. The IDB, UNDP, DfID
and IDA are among those donors providing support to the Government in these areas. The above four
measures are PRPMO prior actions.

3.       Improvingthe Climate for Environmentally-Sustainable Development

Sugar Sector

50. Zssues. As indicated in para. 2, restructuring of the sugar sector is critical for Guyana's continued
growth. Sugar accounts for 16 percent of GDP, 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings, and directly or
indirectly affects the livelihoods of over 75,000 people. Industry profitability i s based on preferential
market access and prices, with the bulk of production going to the European Union under special
protocols. With the price liberalization in the EU sugar market envisaged to start in 2006, many
producers in the Caribbean will become uncompetitive and face closure. Guyana i s one of the few
countries in the region which has the potential to remain competitive in sugar production in a liberalized
environment.

5 I. Government plan and implementation progress.               The Government i s undertaking a major
restructuring and modernization of the sugar industry to enhance productivity and diversify products and



                                                      24

markets. Given the strategic importance of sugar in the economy, the Government has decided to retain
ownership of industry assets while relying on private sector management of the Guyana Sugar
Corporation (GUYSUCO) and increasing the share of privately-grown cane. One of the major elements
of this strategy consists of placing emphasis on production in the Berbice area, through the recently
started construction of a new, larger sugar mill in Skeldon, capable of producing 110,000-120,000 tons of
sugar per year, along with expansion of sugar cane cultivation by some 10,000 hectares. Approximately
half of this cane expansion area would be on lands owned by the Guyana Sugar Corporation
(GUYSUCO) and the other half on private farmers' lands. Some of the,planned sugar cane expansion
area is currently freshwater swamp forest and other wetlands, which would be drained and cleared for
cane cultivation. The Government has recently presented to the EUan Action Plan detailing the sector
restructuringprogramto qualify for EUfinancial support.

52.   PRPMO Support.         The operation supports the Government's commitment to sustainable
development and improved environmental management through the preparation and implementation, by
GUYSUCO, of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the new sugar mill and associated
canefields expansion. The EMPhas been prepared by GUYSUCO and carefully reviewed by IDA, which
found it to be satisfactory (after specific recommended changes had been made). In particular, the EMP
now requires that GUYSUCO manage the Halcrow and Guysuco Conservancies (comprising some 7,500
hectares of freshwater swamp and reef forest) in a manner consistent with wildlife and biodiversity
conservation, thereby effectively mitigating the natural habitat loss associated with expanding cane
cultivation. The two conservancies are considered to be of higher biodiversity conservation value than the
roughly 10,000 hectaresto be converted to cane production. The PHRD grant for the proposed PRPMO
provided technical assistance for a site selection study of the new landfillthat GUYSUCO will need for
wastes generatedby construction and operation of the Skeldon facilities, as well as for a RapidBiological
Assessment of the conservancy area to provide useful baseline data for biodiversity monitoring and
management. GUYSUCO has also prepared, and i s systematically implementing, a detailed Pest
Management Plan that emphasizes integrated pest management, careful selection of compounds, safe
pesticide use and storage, and free pest management technical assistance to private farmers who are (or
will be) providing cane for the new Skeldon factory. These activities are all closely coordinated with the
Skeldon Bagassse Cogeneration Project (Community Development Carbon Fund) and the environmental
and social components of the monitoring plan required by the Clean Development Mechanism of the
Kyoto Protocol for all funds to receive verificatiodcertification as Emission Reduction credits.
Monitoring of broader developments in the sugar sector is also being done by a DFID-financed
consultant, in close consultation with the IMF and IDA. The adoption and satisfactory progress made in
the implementation of the EMP for the Skeldon sugar factory and associated canefield expansion is a
PRPMO prior action. Continued satisfactory implementation of the EMP is a policy action before
PRPMO-II.

Forestry

53. Issues. The development and use of Guyana's considerable forestry resources are critical for
Guyana's future exports and growth. However, development of forestry resourcesneeds to be pursuedon
a sustainable basis, with adequate controls to prevent over-harvesting, minimize environmental damage
and recognize the land claims of indigenous peoples.          Existing legislation (from 1953) does not
adequately ensure that these objectives are met and does not provide the private sector with a clear
regulatory environment.

54. Governmentplan and implementationprogress. The Government has revised the Forests Bill, with
technical assistance from DFID, that also reflects detailed technical comments from IDA. It i s anticipated
that the new Forests Bill will substantially improve the legal basis for sustainable and environmentally
sound management of Guyana's forests. For example, the new law will provide for improved
environmental and forestry controls, increased transparency and public involvement, reduced

                                                     25

opportunities for corruption, new forest conservation concessions and special protected areas, and
enhanced respect for Amerindian rights and opportunities for community-based forestry on Amerindian
lands.

55. PRPMO Support. The Government finalized and submitted to Parliament a revised Forests Bill that
improves the legal basis for sustainable and environmentally sound management of Guyana's forests,
prior to presentation of the proposedPRPMO to the Board. The Billis expectedto ensure the sustainable
development of Guyana's forest resources, while protecting the environment and advancing land tenure
and the rights of indigenous peoples. The satisfactory implementation of the Forests Law, including
updatingthe Code of Practice, is a policy action by the Government for PRPMO-II.

Mining

56. Iisues. Bauxite, gold and diamond have historically been an important part of Guyana's economy
and source of export earnings. Public intervention in the bauxite sector is being wound down, as the
Government has privatized LINMINE, closed down BERMINE and is preparing AROAIMA for
privatization in 2006.     As a result, bauxite exports increased from US$35 million in 2002 to
US$67 million in 2005 and are projected to reach over US$l00 million in the next three years driven by
ongoingforeign direct investment. Output of gold has declined due to the closure of the Omai mine but i s
projected to recover gradually over the coming years as a result of new foreign direct investment
(including the FC-supported Guyana Goldfields hard-rock mine) and increased gold declaration by
informal small miningoperations.

57. Governmentplan and PRPMO support. The Government intends to draft and table inParliament a
new MiningBill improving the regulatory environment for the mining sector (including issues such as
environmental impact, taxation, and the rights of Amerindian communities). While the Mining Bill is
likely to help attract new large-scale mining by international companies, such investments will need to
minimize and mitigate a range of possible adverse environmental impacts. Accordingly, the PHRD grant
for the proposed operation supports the Government by providing technical assistancefor the preparation
of a Strategic EnvironmentalAssessment (SEA) of the miningsector to serve as a basis for the draftingof
the new legislation (see Annex XI1for further details). Submission to Parliament of a new MiningBill,
based on technical and stakeholder input provided through the SEA and acceptable to IDA, i s a policy
action by the Government for PRPMO-II.

C.      Rationale

58. As discussed in paras. 22-27, the proposed operation i s consistent with the strategy defined in the
2002 Country Assistance Strategy and takes into account lessons learned from the implementationof the
PRSC-I.

Complementaritieswith Guyana's Other DevelopmentPartners

59. The Bank has worked very closely with the IMF, IDB and Guyana's other development partners to
coordinate its supportfor the programof reforms contained inthe proposed PRPMO. Guyana i s presently
implementing a macroeconomic program under a SDR54.55 million Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF) arrangement with the IMF.29The IMF mission for the fifth review under the PRGF
arrangement took place in November 2005 (with IDA staff participation) in which agreement was reached
with the authorities on a 2006 budget and the macroeconomic targets, the structural agenda for the
remainder of the PRGF program and a revised medium-term macroeconomic framework.              The fifth



29The PRGFarrangementwas extendedtwice and will expire in September 2006.


                                                       26

review under the PRGF arrangement was successfully completed in January 2006, allowing the
disbursementof a further SDR9.27 millionunder the arrangement.

60. The IDB is currently Guyana's major source of concessionalfinancing, with projects spanningmost
sectors.30    The IDB's pipeline for 2006 contains projects to support citizen security, justice,
competitiveness, bridge rehabilitation, solid waste managementand agricultural diversification, for a total
of US$103 million. IDB ongoing support for public sector modernization is closely related to the
program of reforms supported by the PRPMO and close coordination between the two institutions is
ongoing. Specifically, the IDB and IDA (through the PRPMO and PSTAC) are coordinating inthe areas
of strengthening Government capacity for preparation and implementation of the five-year rolling PSIP,
public procurement, Guyana Revenue Authority, fiduciary oversight and Bureau of Statistics. Also,
following the disbursement of PRPMO, the IDB intends to continue to support the implementation of
fiduciary oversight reforms andhas directly linked its disbursementsto progressinthis area.

61. Guyana has also become a threshold country under the US Millennium Challenge Account and was
identified as a "Development Partner" by Canada. DFID i s providing support to the Government for
water sector reform in collaboration with IDA and is financing a consultant to monitor broad
developments inthe sugar sector incoordination with the IMFandIDA.

Analytical Underpinningsand Complementaritywith Other Bank Activities

62. The proposed operation draws on a wide range of Bank and other development partners' analytical
work, both formal and informal. A Development Policy Review was completed by the Bank in 2003 and
discussedwith the Government. It stressed the needto enhancepublic sector efficiency, transparencyand
governance andimprove the business environment. Other important pieces of Economic and Sector Work
(ESW) include the Public Expenditure Review (PER, 2002) and the Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA, 2002) which highlighted needed actions to improve transparency and efficiency of
public expenditure and strengthen financial management. While the Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) dates back to 1999, subsequent work by Bank specialists for the preparation of the
PRSC-I and PRPMO updated the information and supported the dialogue on procurement reform. As
indicated in para 45, the PSTAC, together with trust funds, provided funding for analytical work
informing the strengthening of fiduciary oversight and the reform of the social protection system. The
PSTAC and trust funds also supported the preparation of two poverty and social impact analyses
(PSL4)-see      para. 67--, as well as the strengthening of the monitoring and evaluation systemthrough the
preparation of an M&E plan, a diagnostics of the Bureau of Statistics, and the provision of technical
assistance for the preparation of a poverty map and the ongoing Household Income and Expenditure
Survey. The Bank engaged actively in the development of the PRSP and subsequent Progress Reports,
and the content of the PRPMO reflects this work. An IMF (CARTAC) study provided the background
for the reforms in the Guyana Revenue Authority. The analytical work for the new Audit Act derived
from work funded by the IDB.

Participatory Arrangements

63. The key reform measures supported by the proposed operation were presented in the Government's
2005 draft Annual Progress Report (APR) of the Poverty Reduction Strategy as integral elements of its
development agenda. The draft APR was broadly disseminated, including by its posting on the web, its
presentationinseveralpublic meetings in various locations throughout the country andto Parliament. The
meetings were well attended and provided an opportunity for Government officials to engage with a
broad range of stakeholders (including donors, non-governmental organizations, civil society, membersof


3" Since 1977, the IDB has approvedloans amounting to US$970million. Outstanding debt stands at US$462 million (excluding
undisbursedHIPCdebt relief), while the undisbursedportfolio totals US$225 million (as of November 2005).


                                                            27

political parties, members of Parliament, and neighborhood democratic councils) on the draft APR in an
open forum. The consultations broadly confirmed the importance and direction of these reforms, in
particular the needto strengthenGovernment capacity for monitoringandevaluation.

D.      Prior Conditions

64. The policy matrix in Annex VI lists the policy measures the Government has undertaken under the
proposed PRPMO (PRPMO-I), indicative actions under a follow-up operation (PRPMO-11) and medium-
term expected outcomes. The following are the key actions implemented by the Government prior to
Boardpresentation of the PRPMO:
           1. Maintain a stable macroeconomic framework;
           2. Prepare and publisha 5-year PSIP, consistent with PRSP objectives and debt sustainability,
               including a methodology for selecting and ranking future projects, and committing to
               subject all new public investment projects appraised after June 2005, estimated to cost
               above US$10 million (net of grants), excluding those financed by multilateral financial
               institutions, to a detailed feasibility study reviewed by the World Bank or IDB for
               economic, environmental and financial viability; and integrate the PSIP into the 2006
               budget;
           3. Continue improvement of public financial management as evidenced by: the enactment of
               new Audit Act and gazetting of regulations; implementation of the Auditor General's key
               recommendations contained inhis 2004 report (see details inAnnex VII); and launching of
               first phaseof fiduciary oversight strengthening program(see details inAnnex VIII);
          4. Continue satisfactory reform of the regulatory and institutional public procurement
               framework consistent with established internationalstandards, as evidenced by: adoption of
               amended National Procurement Act and of Regulations, and their dissemination;
               appointment of staff for National and Regional Tender Boards and Secretariat; adoption of
               standardbiddingdocuments and evaluation criteria; and the completion of the first annual
               audit of procurement operations;
          5. Improve monitoring and evaluation of PRS activities as evidenced by: issuingof the first
               semi-annual publication of executed current and capital public expenditures by sector and
               priority poverty-related programs; publication of a summary of the 2002 census; launching
               the Household Income and Expenditure Survey; and completion of the mapping of access
               to basic services;
          6. Adopt and make satisfactory progress in the implementation of an Environmental
               Management Plan (EMP) for the Skeldon sugar factory andassociatedcanefield expansion;
          7. Submit to Parliament a revised Forests Bill, improving the legal basis for sustainable and
               environmentally sound managementof Guyana's forests.


E.      Implementation Monitoringand Evaluation

65. The Policy Coordination and ProgramManagement Unit (PCPMU) in the Office of the President i s
the principal executing agency and has responsibility for coordinating and overseeing all aspects of the
program supported by the proposed PRPMO. The head of the PCPMU reports to the Head of the
Presidential Secretariat, who inturn is advised by a separate steering committee composedof civil society
representatives, government andthe private sector. The Unit has three broaddivisions: policy, monitoring
and evaluation, and social statistics development. The latter is charged with the task of monitoring the
implementation of important structural reforms, including those included under the HIPC, PRGF and
PRSP, as well as IDA-financed PRPMO. The PCPMUi s also incharge of producingthe annual progress
reports on PRSPimplementation.



                                                     28

F.       Poverty and Social Impacts

66. The proposed operation i s expected to have a significant positive impact on poverty reduction. The
PRPMO supports the implementation of the Government's poverty reduction strategy laid out in the
PRSPand the PRSP progressreports, and for reaching the MillenniumDevelopment Goals. Inparticular,
this operation would contribute to improving the transparency, accountability, and efficiency with which
overall resources are utilized across the public sector. Improvements in financial administration, audit
andprocurement will increaseefficiency andtransparency inpublic resourceuseandreduceopportunities
for rent-seeking in the public sector.       Also, the PRPMO would help improve the Government's
institutional capacity to monitor progress under the PRSP, evaluate the impact of poverty reduction
programs, andimprovethe statistical information for poverty analysis andtargeting. The operation would
also indirectly have a positive impact on poverty and social conditions through its support for sustainable,
private sector-driven development of natural resources, with adequate controls to prevent over-harvesting,
minimize environmental damage andrecognize the landclaims of indigenous peoples.

67. It is not expected that the policy changes supported by this operation will have any negative poverty
or social impacts. Parallelto this operation, the Bank has supported, through the PSTAC and with trust
fund resources, analysis of the poverty and social impact (PSIA) of key adjustments in the bauxite and
sugar sectors andrelatedrecommendations. While neither the bauxite nor the sugar sector are part of the
present operation (except that the PRPMO addresses the environmental mitigation requirements of the
Skeldon sugar expansion which was promoted under the PRSC-I), it i s expected that the PSIA for the
sugar sector which is being completed will help the Government mobilize donor funding to address
possible impacts of this sector's restructuring.

68. The PRPMO is also expected to have a significant positive impact on improving the social
conditions of Guyana's Amerindian population, through its support for sustainable development of
naturalresources, with adequate controls to prevent over-harvesting, minimize environmentaldamage and
help further the recognition of the land claims of indigenous peoples. In particular, IDA has reviewed
provisions relating to indigenous people in the draft Forests Bill and considers these to be favorable
compared with the prior legislation with respect to their economic and social advancement (including
improved recognition of their land claims). IDA also reviewed in detail the terms of reference for the
PHRD-funded Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) of Guyana's mining sector (currently
underway) as a basis for improving national mining regulations; these terms of reference (copy in
PRPMOFiles) explicitly cover indigenous peoples'issues. IDA will review the SEA, once it i s available,
to verify that it provides a good basis for addressing relevant indigenous peoples issues in the planned
new MiningBill.

G.       EnvironmentalAspects

69. In accordance with OP 8.60, the PRPMO was prepared with careful analysis of the likely impacts on
the environment, forests, and other natural resources. The PRPMO has been designed so as to be
significantly positive from an environmental standpoint, when compared to the status quo and expected
trends. Environmental managementconcerns have been systematically mainstreamed within the PRPMO
design, through: (i)ensuring that the country's sugar restructuring(through constructionof a new, modem
sugar factory and associated expansion of cane cultivation) follows good environmental practices, in
terms of proper management of solid and liquid wastes from the factory, conserving two specific natural
habitat areas to compensate for the expanded cane cultivation, and integrated pest management in the
cane fields; (ii)
                ensuring that the revised Forests Bill will promote improved forest management, in terms
of environmental sustainability as well as advancing the interests of Amerindian communities; (iii)
supporting (through the PHRD Grant) a Strategic Environmental Assessment of Guyana's mining sector,
to help ensure that the future MiningBill will more adequately address a diverse range of environmental


                                                     29

and social issues; (iv) promoting improved wildlife management, through increased transparency in the
financial transactions and administrative actions of the Wildlife Division; and (v) ensuring that future
large public projects (over US$10 million, net of grants, and excluding those financed by multilateral
financial institutions) are reviewed for their environmental (as well as financial and economic)
implications by the World Bank or IDB. IDA also carried out due diligence with respect to the land
administration activities of the Lands and SurveysCommission, to verify that a robust screeningsystemi s
inplace to avoid issuingnew leases or individualtitles inprotected areas, State Forests, and Amerindian
lands. These items are explained in greater detailinAnnex XI1(Environmental Analysis), andbackedup
by a series of analytical reports (in the PRPMO Files) on the environmental management of sugar,
forestry, mining, wildlife, andlandadministration.

H.       FiduciaryArrangements

Financial managementandprocurement

70. Froma fiduciary point of view, the control environment, procedures andregulations governing Bank
of Guyana's (BOG)operations are generally adequate. In response to vulnerabilities facing the Bank of
Guyana identified in 2003 and relating to financial statement preparation in accordance with
internationally recognized accounting standards, improved oversight, and audits, the Government enacted
in 2004 modifications in the BOGAct that addressed these vulnerabilities, including the adoption of
accounting standards mandated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Guyana and staffing
arrangementsfor BOGgovernment bodies inline with internationalbest practices.

71. As indicated in para. 42, the World Bank's CFAA, completed in 2002, also identified a range of
weaknesses andissues relating to: fragmentation of the public financial management system; deficiencies
in budget preparation; antiquated governmental accounting system with limited internal controls; poor
Parliamentary oversight; and considerable discretion in the running of public agencies. Since the
publication of the CFAA, the Government has taken steps to implement its recommendations. Since
2003, fiscal management and accountability have been considerably strengthened, with the enactment of
the FiscalManagement andAccountability Act. Furthermore, regulations under the Audit Act were put in
place in 2005. Program budgeting is being gradually introduced in key ministries. In addition, public
expenditures are expected to improve with the completed introduction of a computerized integrated
financial management systeminall Ministries and several agencies.

72. The Government agreedunder the PRSC-Ito strengthen fiduciary oversight and engaged consultants
under the PSTAC project to undertake three studiesto: (i) strengthen parliamentary oversight over public
finances;  (ii) the discretionary powers of public officials; and(iii) effective public
               curtail                                                           ensure
disclosure of assets of officials. The studies were completed in 2005 and contain some 60
recommendations.       With support from the donor community through technical assistance, the
Government has adopted a time-bound action planfor implementing 30 of these recommendations as part
of fiduciary   strengthening program supported by the PRPMO.           The launching of the fiduciary
strengtheningprogramas a prior Board condition of the proposed operation, together with the actions that
the Government has undertaken to strengthen the operations of the BOGand improve public financial
management and accountability, provide reasonable assurance regarding the adequacy of the
disbursement and flow-of-funds arrangements. The objective of the proposed program is to take further
the reforms already initiated.

73. As indicated in para. 46, a CPAR was completed in 1999, and implementation via a new
Procurement Law was a major component of PRSC-I. PRPMO supports continued implementation of
procurement reforms, including the adoption of amended National Procurement Act and regulations, and
of standard bidding documents.       Additional actions are underway with IDA financing including
strengtheninginstitutional capacity, carrying out a comprehensive training program, and developing other

                                                    30

implementing tools such as a procurement monitoring and evaluation system, and an e-procurement
strategy.

Disbursementand Auditing

74. This operation would consist of a single tranche grant of US$9.6 million equivalent. The entire
amount would be disbursedupon effectiveness. Upon the Bank`s formal notification to the Borrower that
the single tranche was available for withdrawal, the borrower would be able to submit withdrawal
application for the grant, so that the proceeds of the tranche would be deposited by the Bank into an
account to be established inthe BOGto be used inaccordance with the Grant Agreement. Disbursements
would not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting evidence for disbursement i s therefore not
required. The proceeds of the grant would not be used to finance expenditures excluded under the Grant
Agreement.     In accordance with Bank policy,"1 the deposit account would be audited on terns of
reference acceptable to the Bank within six months of grant disbursement in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm acceptable to the Bank and using terms of
reference acceptableto the Bank.

75. In addition, in 1996, the Government of Guyana obtained a Project Preparation Facility (PPQ
Advance to finance certain expenditures required for the preparation of a planned Secondary Towns
Infrastructure Development project. This PPFadvance was approved on October 25, 1996 for an amount
of $850,000. Upon closure of the PPF on June 30, 2000, US$547,095 of the PPF advance had been
disbursed andthe remaining US$302,904 was cancelled. The project preparation activities financed with
the PPF advance were in line with the purposes established inthe corresponding agreement. However, in
mid-2000 the planned Secondary Towns Infrastructure Development project was dropped due to the
Bank's and Government's reprioritization of areas for Bank support. The PPFwould be refinanced with
the proceedsof the proposed PRPMOfor which an additional disbursement category has been includedin
its FinancingAgreement.

I. RisksandRiskMitigation

76. The proposed operation entails a highlevel of risk, given the presenteconomic andpolitical situation
inthe country. Criticalrisks are:

    0   National consensus, ethnic and political tensions, and security. The PRSP suffered from
        delayed implementation in 2002-2003 because of social and political tensions, coupled with
        rising crime and political violence. While some violence was politically or racially motivated,
        much of it was caused by criminal elements often linked to international drug smuggling. The
        situation markedly improved in 2004-05, but remains problematic, particularly with general
        elections constitutionally due by August 2006. The principal source of the problem continues to
        be the political structure of the country, wherein voting patterns and the major political parties
        generally reflect the major ethnic divisions. Indeed, the polarized nature of Guyanese politics
        raisesconcerns of possible election violence, a stalling of reform and fiscal pressure. While these
        are difficult issues to mitigate, the PRPMO has been designed as a one-tranche operation
        disbursed on the basis of actions implemented prior to Board presentation. An IDA operation
        (PRPMO-II) would follow to support continuation of the Government reform program and would
        be timed to match the speed of Government's implementationperformance for further reforms. It
        should also be noted that the PRPMO agenda of reforms has broad buy-in from across the
        politicalparties.




31Guidelines:AnnualFinancialReportingandAuditingfor World Bank-FinancedActivities,June 2003


                                                     31

        Implementation and institutional capacity. A major risk centers around Guyana's historically
        weak implementation capacity, which was a key factor in the past delays in PRSP
        implementation.     The Government has had problems in recruiting and retaining qualified
        professionals inthe public sector. Although public service salarieshave increased inrecent years,
        these adjustments have been across-the-board and therefore not adequate to attract and retain
        skilled persons in key positions, such as technical staffs in the civil service as well as senior and
        middle level management.Moreover, decision-making authority remains highly centralized. The
        ongoing PSTAC and a PHRD grant are providing technical assistance for the implementation of
        several measures supported by the PRPMO. IDA is also coordinating closely with other
        development partners (notably the IMF and IDB) that are providing technical assistance in the
        areas relatedto the proposedoperation (see para. 59-61).
        Public spending pressures. The forthcoming general elections and Guyana's hosting of the
        2007 Cricket World Cup may put pressure on public spending and jeopardize fiscal and debt
        sustainability However, the Government has provided assurances that no government finance
                      .
        would be used for ancillary housing and other needs which would be financed by the private
        sector. Shortfalls innet operatingbalancesfor the stadium areto be covered from increasesintax
        revenues. Also, the civil service unions continue to press for across-the-board wage increases
        following the sizeable wage increases granted in 1999 and2000. While a rather modest
        adjustment was agreed in 2004, it i s possible that wage pressures may again mount inthe future.
        The 2005 and 2006 floods also highlighted the significant water conservancy rehabilitation works
        needed to prevent flood-related damage in addition to those already included in the PSIP. The
        Government's macroeconomic program supported by the IMF PRGF arrangement includes
        measures to maintainpublic finances on a sustainablepath andthe NVP of external debt-to-fiscal
        revenue ratio to below 250 percent threshold. In addition, the preparation of five-year rolling
        PSIPs (a prior action for the proposed PRPMO and an indicative action for PRPMO-11) will help
        the Government prioritize the investment programto maximize results and ensure its consistency
        with Guyana's debt sustainability. It will also be important for the authorities to monitor closely
        the implementation of the largest planned infrastructure projects (i.e., construction of the sugar
        factory, the cricket stadium andthe Berbicebridge) to avoid cost increases.
        Developments in the world economy. Guyana's economic outlook i s subject to considerable
        risks associatedwith highworld oil prices, the plannedliberalization in EUsugar prices andother
        external (economic and natural) shocks.          Managing these risks will require steadfast
        implementation of the Government's fiscal and structural reform program, as well as continued
        support from the donor community. In the past, the authorities have demonstrated readiness to
        adjust policies to meet the targets in the macroeconomic program supported by the IMF PRGF
        arrangement, agree that the significant risks over the medium term would require cautious
        policies in the future and are committed to make additional adjustment if the external
        environment deteriorates.

77. In IDA's assessment, the above risks are worth taking at this juncture of Bank-Guyana cooperation.
Guyana has made progress over the past decade, and continues to move in the right direction. The slow
pace of reform reflects institutional weaknesses which are being addressed, in part by this operation, but
also through coordinated technical assistancefrom IDA and other development partners, in particular the
IMFandthe IDB. The proposed operation will contributeto improving transparency, accountability and
efficiency with which overall resources are utilized across the public sector. Also, by strengthening the
Government's M&E system, IDA's assistance would help the country's institutional capacity to monitor
progress under the PRSP, evaluate the impact of poverty reduction programs, and improve the statistical
information for poverty analysis and targeting. Finally, developing the legal framework to ensure that
private sector-led development in Guyana i s environmentally sustainable will help preserve Guyana's
natural resource endowment that, in the long run, i s key to sustainable economic development.


                                                    32

                       ANNEXES



Annex I: Guyana - Country at a Glance

Annex 11:   Guyana  -Key   EconomicIndicators

Annex 111:  Guyana  -Key   Exposure Indicators

Annex IV:   Timetable for Key ProcessingEvents

Annex V:    Letter of DevelopmentPolicy

Annex VI:   Policy Matrix for PRPMO

Annex VII:  Auditor General's recommendations

Annex VIII: Improving fiduciary oversight inGuyana

Annex IX:   Status of triggers for PRSC-I1

Annex X:    Guyana -IMFRelations

Annex XI:   Guyana  -IDBRelations
Annex XII:  EnvironmentalAnalysis

Annex XIII: Debt Sustainability Analysis




                            33

                                                          Annex I

                                    Guyana at a glance                                                                           3/24/06


                                                                     Latin      Lower-
POVERTYandSOCEAL                                                                                          1
                                                                  America       middle-
                                                       Gl#yam     & Carib.      income      )evelopmentdiamond.

2004
Population, mid-year (md/iuns)                             0 77       541         2,430
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                           998     3,600         1,580                   Llfeexpectancy
GNI (ANas method, US$billions)                             0.n       1,948        3,847

Averageannualgrowth, 199844
                                                             0 4       1.4          1 0
Iabcrforce(%I
populatwn(%)
                                                             1 3       0 9          0 7     GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                            per                                  primary
MostrecentesttmSte(latestyear available, 19!384M)                                           capita                             enrollment
                                                              35
                                                              38        77           49
                                                              62        71           70
                                                              52        28           33
                                                              14                     11          Accessto improvedwater source
                                                              8.3       89           61
                                                                        89           90
Grossprimary enrollment (% dschod-agepopulat~)               125       123          114
  Male                                                       126       126          116
  Female                                                     I23       122          113

KEY ECOWWICRATIOSandLONG-TERMTRENDS
                                               1984        I994       2003         2004
                                                044        054        074          079
GrosscapitatformamVGDP                          27 4       272        21 .o        22 1
Exports of goods andServiceSlGBP                442       1050        89.8         958                        Trade
Gruss nationalsavinys/GDP                                    8 4      12 1         175
Cwrentaccount balance/ODP                      -22.6      4 4 9        5.9          "4 6
IntewsipaymentdGDP                                                     5 8          5 0
TotalW G R P                                   298.8      378 9      1731         1644
Totaldebtservrcalexporls                        24 2        157        72           5.9
Presentvalue of deM/GDP                                               65.5         646                          1
Presentvalue of debtlaxpotis                                          72.9         67 4

                                  1984-94 1994-04         2003        zoo4      2004-08                    Indebtedness
(averageannualgmwthi
GDP                                     1 1       1 9        -0.7       1 6          2 1       -Guyana
GRP per r-ta                            $ 4       1 5        -12        1 2          1 7
~ x p x t sof goodsandsetvices                                                                  -. Lower-middle-income~mup
                                        7 0       1 0         3.6      0 3           4 6


STRUCTUREOf the ECONOMY

                                                                                    ;:::
ph ofGDP)                                      1-          1994       2003         2004

Agnculture
Industry                                        ::: z:;               g::
Services                                        50.9        26.3      41.0          41.0
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure           61.7        70.3      60.9          59.0
Generalgov't final consumptionexpendiiure        16.1       15.5      28.1          27.2               -GCF            -GDP


                                             1984-94 1994-04          2003         2004
(average annualgrowth)                                                                     Growthof exports andimports(a)

Agriculture                                       2.1         1.a      -1.3          2.9
Industry                                          0.5         1.5      -2.8         -0.2    5
  Manufacturing                                  -2.0         0.9      -3.0          2.3    0
Services                                          0.9         2.4       1.4          1.9    5

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure            -1.4         3.0      -3.4          4.9   -10

Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure         7.9       10.7      13.3           5.2   -15
Gross capital formation                           8.4        -2.7       4.5         21.9
Importsof goodsandservices                        7.0         1.6      -1.2         14.7


Note: 2004dataare preliminaryestimates.
* Thediamondsshow four key indicators inthe country(in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage. If dataare missing, the diamondwill
  be incomplete.




                                                                 34

                                                                                                             Guyana

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                            1984  1994   2003  2004
Domesticprices                                                         Inflation(%)                           1
(% change)                                                             15 T

Consumer prices                                     9.4   5.0    5.5
Implicit GDP deflator                        19.3  19.7   5.4    4.3

Governmentfinance.
(% ofGDP,includescurrentgrants)                                                 9  9  0  0  0  1   0   2  0    3 0  4
Current revenue                                    36.6  36.1   39.6
Current budgetbalance                              11.0   2.3    7.4

TRADE
                                            1984  1994   2003  2004
(US$ mi/lions)                                                         Export andimport levels(US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                          217   447    513   589    -1
 Rice                                               56     45     55
 Sugar                                        71   116    129    137
 Manufactures                                 19    48
Total imports (cif)                          211   506    572   646
 Food                                          8    32                        sa   99    w   01       02     03   04
 Fueland energy                                    136    147    169
 Capitalgoods                                 31   164    116    136                ~xports          imports



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                            1984  1994   2003   2004
(US$millions)                                                          Currentaccountbalanceto GDP(%)                 c
Exportsof goods and services                 246   568    670    753    0
Importsof goods and services                 301   638    744    831     2

Resourcebalance                              -55    -70    -74    -77   4
                                                                        6
Net income                                   -45    -59    -58    -43   a
Net current transfers                               63     65      93  -10
                                                                       -12
Currentaccountbalanceb                        -99   -81    -66    -36  -14

Changes in net reserves                             23      -9    -47  -16
                                                                       -18

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)                269    271    225
Conversion rate (DEC, lmWUS$)                 3.8 138.3  193.9  198.3

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1984  1994   2003   2004
(US$millions)                                                            :ompositionof 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstandinganddisbursed          1,308 2,049  1,084  1,079
  IBRD                                         54    39      1      0
  IDA                                         25    182   232    246                  G: 101

Total debt service                             60    97     49     44
  IBRD                                          6     9      3      1
   IDA                                          0     2      2      3

Compositionof net resource flows
  Official grants                               7    32      5
  Official creditors                           18    -1     43     46
  Private creditors                            -6    -4     -1     -1
   Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)       5   107     26     30
   Portfolioequity(net inflows)                 0     1    -27    -14                        D: 353
World Bank program
  Commitments                                   0    20     17      0    4 IBRD
                                                                           -                            E Bilateral
                                                                                                            ~


   Disbursements                                5    12     20      7    3 IDA     D Other multilateral
                                                                                     -                  F Private
                                                                                                           - .
                                                                           ~


   Principalrepayments                          2     6      3      2    2 - IMF                        G Short-term
   Netflows                                     3     6     17      5
   Interestpayments                             4     5      2      2
   Nettransfers                                -1     2     16      3


Development Economics                                                                                           3/24/06
a. CentralGovernment.
b. Includingofficialtransfers




                                                        35

                                                    Annex I1

                                      Guyana Key Economic Indicators
                                               -

                                                   Actual            Estimate           Projected
                 Indicator                2001    2002   2003  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009          2010
 Nationalaccounts(as % of GDP)
 Grossdomestic product"                     100     100   100    100    100   100   100   100     100   100
  Agriculture                                 29    29     29     30     29    30    30     31     31    31
, Industry                                    31    31     29     29     29    27    28     28     28    28
  Services                                    40    40     41     41     43    42    42     42     41    41
 Total Consumption                            94    92      89    86     93    96    97     96     96    96
 Grossdomestic fixed investment               22    21     21     22     31    34    30     28     27    27
  Governmentinvestment                        14     13     15    16     25    27    22     18     16    14
  Privateinvestment                            8      8      7     6     7      7     8     10     11    12

 Exports (GNFS)'                              95    93     90     96     92    92    91     89     87    84
 hports (GNFS)'                             111     105   100    106    123   122   115   109     105   102

 Grossnational savings'                       4      8     12     18     12    12    13     14     15    14
 Memorandum items
 Grossdomesticproduct                       696     723   745    786   782    823   876   933     988  1040
 (US$ million at current prices)
 GNIper capita (US$, Atlas method)          840     860   890    990
 Real annualgrowth rates (%, calculatedfrom 1988prices)
  Grossdomesticproduct at marketprice!       2.2    1.1   -0.7    1.6  -2.8   4.2   3.8    3.5    3.2   2.7
 Real annualper capita growthrates (%, calculatedfrom 1988prices)
  Gross domesticproduct at marketprice!             0.4   -1.2    1.2  -3.1   3.9   3.5    3.2    2.9   2.3
 Balanceof Payments(US$ millions)
  ~ x p ~ r(GNFS)'
           t s                              662     668   670    753   719    754   797   833     863   873
    MerchandiseFOB                          490     496   513    589   556    582   614   638     657   656
       sugar                                        120    129   137    131   144   147    146    135   122
       Gold                                         136    131   145    106    70    82     95    112   122
  Imports (GNFS)D                           777     759   743    831    962  1004 1005 1015      1042 1065
    MerchandiseC.1.F                        584     563   572    646    774   806   794   792     806   818
     Capital Goods                                  114    116   136    157   206   184    169    165   157
         Of which for Skeldon                         0      0      0     8    59    36     17       0    0
     ConsumerGoods                                  157    149   155    194   161   164    168    172   177
     Fuel and Lubricants                            126    147   169    210   238   243   245     252   257
  Resourcebalance                          -114     -91    -74   -77  -243   -250 -208    -182   -179  -192
  Net current transfers                       68    53      65    93    143   122   116    117    121   127
  Current accountbalance                   -109     -97    -66   -37  -147   -176 -140    -116   -110  -118
  Net private foreign direct investment      56     44      26    30     70    55    50     54     57    60
  Long-term official loans(net)              47     25      43    55     80    69    78     68     78    52
  Changein reserves'                         -12     -5     -9   -47     15    10    19     17     17     7
 Memorandum items
 Resourcebalance(% of GDP)                -16.4   -12.6   -9.9   -9.8 -31.1  -30.4 -23.7 -19.5   -18.1 -18.4
 Realannualgrowth rates ( YR88 prices)       2.3    1.1   -0.7    1.6  -2.8    4.2   3.8    3.5    3.2  2.7
  Merchandiseexports (FOB)e                -1.8     0.8    0.3   12.5  -4.6    4.8   5.8   4.4     3.7   1.1
  Merchandiseimports (CIF)"                -0.3    -2.3   -2.1   11.7  15.8    4.4   0.1    1.0    2.6  2.2

                                                                                   (Continued)




                                                       36

                                   Guyana KeyEconomicIndicators
                                              -
                                                  (Continued)


                                                  Actual                Estimatc                Projected
               Indicator                2001     2002     2003     2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009           2010

Public finance (as % of GDPat market prices)'
 Current revenues                         40.0    40.5      36.1    39.6   43.1 44.6 42.7      41.7   40.6  40.4
 Current expenditures                     34.6    33.7      33.8    32.2   35.8  35.0 33.3     32.5   31.5  30.5
 Currentaccount surplus(+)ordeficit(-)     5.4      6.8      2.3    7.4     7.3  9.6  9.4       9.2    9.1   9.9
 Capital expenditure                      12.7     11.4     11.0    15.9   17.7  17.1 15.8      15.1   14.2 13.0
 Foreign financing (net)                              ..     6.2    -0.1   15.3  21.7 16.6      13.3   15.3  9.5

Monetary indicators
 M2/GDP                                   71.3    71.3      73.9    73.5   79.7 77.4
 Growth of M2(%)                           8.9      5.5      8.3    7.8     9.9  5.0
 Private sectorcredit growth (%)             ..    -1.1    -17.2    -0.4    6.6  8.0     ......
Price indices(YR82=100)
 Merchandiseexport price index            94.9    97.2      99.7 106.6 114.3 115.0 108.4 105.8       103.1 104.0
 Merchandiseimport price index           132.5 133.4      148.6 169.9 191.4 193.3 192.1 191.0        190.8 190.8
 Merchandiseterms of tradeindex           71.6    72.8      67.1    62.7   59.7  59.5 56.5     55.4   54.0  54.5

 Consumerpriceindex (% change)             1.5      5.4      6.0     4.7    7.1  6.9   4.4      3.1     3.0  3.0
 GDP deflator (% change)                  -1.9      3.7      5.4     4.3    4.2  3.8   4.0      3.1     3.0  2.9

a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnonfactor services."
c. Includesnet unrequitedtransfersexcluding official capital grants.
d. Includesuse of IMFresources.
e. US Dollar terms, in percent.
f. Consolidatedcentralgovernment.
g. Percentagechange, 12-monthbasis.




                                                      37

                                                                      Annex I11

                                                   Guyana Key ExposureIndicators
                                                                 -

                                    Actual                                        Estimte                              Projected
              Indicator                  2001        2002         2003       2004        2005       2006         2oM          2008       2009      2010


         Totaldebt outstandingand       1193.0      1246.4       1083.8     l(n8.8      1153.3      947.1       1005.1      1055.7      1119.1 1164.0024
          disbursed(TDO) (US$m)"

        Netdisbursements(US$m)'                         25           43         55          80           69         78          68         78         52

           Totaldebt service(TDS)         52.8        58.4         48.9       44.1          25           29         25          30         29       35.5
                          O]S$m)'

    Debtanddebt serviceindicators
                               (%I
                       TDO'KGS'           180.1       186.6       161.8      143.2       160.4      125.6         126.1       126.7      129.7    133.3
                       TDO'IGDP           171.4       172.5       145.4      137.0       148.0      115.0         115.0       113.0      113.0      112.0
                        TDSKGS'           .7.9         8.7          7.3        5.9         3.4          2.8         2.9         3.4        3.0       3.3

      IBRDexposureindicators(%)
                IBRDDS/public DS           7.0          5.0         4.4        1.9
        Preferredcreditor DS/public       75.4         51.4        62.3       74.2
                          DS(%)a
                    IBRDDSKGS              0.4         0.4          0.3        0.1
               IBRDTDO (US$m)"              5           3             1         0
           Ofwhichpresentvalueof
                 guarantees(US$m)
                 IDATDO (US$m)e            178         1%           232        246

                       IFC(US$m)
                             Loans            0           0           0          0           0
            Equityandquasi-equity'            0           0           0          0           0            5

                             MIGA
                                              n           n           n          n           n


a. Includespublic andpubliclyguaranteeddebt, privatenonguaranteed,use of IMFcreditsandnet short-termcapital.Excludesthe letterof creditused
     for thefinancingofthe Guysucoproject.
b. Foreigncurrencydenominateddebt
c. "XGS denotesexportsof goodsandservices, includingworkers'remittances.
d. Preferredcreditorsare definedas IBRD, IDA, the regionalmultilateraldevelopmentbanks, tbeIMF, and tllk Bankfor InternationalSettlemenw.
e. Includespresentvalueof &uarantees.
f. Includesequityandquasi-equitytypesofbothloanandequityinshuments.




                                                                            38

                                     Annex I V

                         Timetable for Key ProcessingEvents



Steps                                                Dates

Identificationmission                                April 4-16,2004

Concept review meeting                               September 30,2004

Preparationmission                                   February 21-15,2005

Review meeting                                       April 18,2005

Re-appraisalmission                                  May 23-June 3,2005

ROCmeeting                                           February 27,2006

Appraisalmission                                     March6-7,2006

Negotiations                                         March8-10,2006

BoardPresentation                                    April 27,2006

Effectiveness                                        May 4,2006




                                         39

                                                          c




18 REPLYING QUOTE DATE
HEREOFAND No    ...................,.I


     L,ettcr of L)eveIopinent 1' o1icy


     Georgetown, March 2, 2006




     Mr.Paul WoIfoowitz
     President
     The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
      Washington, DC 20433


      Dear Mr.Wolfowitz:

      1.      Z am writing to request on behalf o f the Government o f the Republic o f Guyana a
      Poverty Reduction and Public Management Operation (PRPMO) of US$9.6 million
      equivalent in support o f our Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). This letter sets out the
      critical actions that the Government has already undertaken as well as those it intends to
      adopt in the future to improve the transparency, accountability and efficiency with which
      overall resources are utilized across the public sector, improve the institutional capacity
      to monitor progress under the PRS, evaluate the impact o f poverty reduction programs
      undertaken, improve statistical information for poverty analysis and targeting, as well as
      to strengthen environmental management and regulations. In addition, Iam attaching a
      policy matrix we have prepared in collaboration nith the ID.4 team and other donors and
      which sets out the contents o f this letter insummary fonn.


      Recent Developments in Guyana




      2.       Guyana enjoyed rapid growth in the 1990s; after trnnsitioning from a planned to a
      market economy. However, the economy has stagnated in recent years due to a difficult
      domestic and external environment. After growing at an average rate o f 0.6 percent from
      2000 to 2003, the economy is expected to have contracted by 2.8 percent in 20i:ij: due to
      the closure of the OA,IAI mine (the largest gold rninc of the countryj, se\.ere floods and
      high oil prices. A s a consequence o f these shocks, mncrocconomic indicators Xvorsened in
      2005, as the ci\w-alI pLibiic delicit o f 13.5 percent illustrates.     The cvorsenins o f


                                                   40

macroeconomic indicators reflects also the need to increase capital espeiiditure~to
reslnictiire the sugar sector, in preparation for the forthcoming lib&alization of thc EU
sugar preferential regime.

3.       Guyanahas been implementing a macroeconomic program supported by the IRIF
through an SDR54.55million Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) introduced
in 2002        The fifih review              LSRS     successfully completed on January 38, 2006.
h4acroeconomic targets xverc broadly m e t a i d although Lvith delays, the struciurai reform
program \vas also advanced.

4.        Guyana benefited from a total of US329 million of debt relief in NPV tcmis,
after reaching the Enhanced HfPC (E-I-IIPC) Conipletion Point in December 2003, in
addition to thc relief o f US$256 million in NI'V terms granted under the original I-IIPC in
May 1999.           However, debt sustainability concerns remained given that debt was
projected to increase in the medium-terni in response to an ambitious investment
program, almost picking at the threshold o f 250 percent of NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio.
Improved revenue performance and additional Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRl)
debt relief has led to an improvement in Guyana debt sustainability prospects, but this
will require stable niacroecmomic conditions and higher growth.


Progrcss in the Sfrricfriral Reform Program

 5.       Guyana has been implementing an ambitious reform program that has as its main
 objectives to improve the efficiency o f the public sector, foster growth by improving the
 environment for private investment, and to address weaknesses in the provision of social
 services.

 6.       In 2003, a medium-term tax reform program was launched, to broaden the tax
 base and increase the equity, efficiency and transparency of the tax system. Main actions
 completed include: (i)enactment o f the VAT and Excise Tax legislation with draft
 regulations submitted to Parliament for consideration in October 2005;' (ii)the
 elimination of the Minister of Finance's power to grant discretionary tax exemptions and
 m i u a l publication of exemptions beginning in 2004; (iii)a limit on most income talc
 holidays to 5 years, except for certain sectors, which were limited to 10 years; (iv) an
 increase in withholding taxes, consumption taxes for certain services and personal
 income tax threshold; and (v) progress instrengthening tax administration, particularly in
 the Guyana Revenue Authority (GM).




 ' Thr regulations stipulated a Juiy I,2006 imp!emcntaiion datc; a 16 percent VAT rate: the VAT t!l?:jhclci; and ncw
 excise tax rates-ai! of whish would allow a rcvcnue ncutra! rcform. In 1anu;lry 2006, the Gukancs: Parliament
 appruved the imp!cmcnting regulations of :he VAT Act and Excije tas In;v.             In additiqii, the rcla!ed coniiuzriccmcnl
 oidcrs h3ve bren issucd by the Pglinistcr of Finance. I-loivcicr, the implcineniatinn d.iir for. the V.4.i` As[. thc Exiic
 Tax Acr and the escisc tax regulations ha: been delayed til Jac1u.p I, 7007, to allo;b         morc tini: For p1:biic cducdlion
 and to avoid ovcrlapping with 111:: clrclion.;, it.hicli arc conjii!utiollnllv duc by AugMt 2006.




                                                      41

7.       Another ongoing important refonn in the public sector aims to improve the fiscal
management and accountability framework, by addressing legal and regulatory issues as
\vvzll as improving human and technical capacity. Specifically,                         a n e ~ vNational
Procurement `4ct (J~ily2003) and a Fiscal h4anagernent and Accountability Act (the
organic budget law, December 2003) were enacted.                          Progress was also Inadc in
improving public espenditurr management tvith the introduction of a computerized
integrated finrincial nianagernent system (IFMAS) in all Ministries and sevcral agencies.

5,       In addition, the go! ernmcnt has dedicated particular attention to restructuring
public enterprises, having closed loss making companies, prik atized pivotal enterprises
such as Liimiine' in thc bauxite sector, and a large conimcrcial bank (CSCB). The
GoJ,ernmc.nt has also rcorganizcd the tvater sector, \vith support form IDA and DflD.
Actions undertaken in this area include the adoption of a n e w legal and regulatory
frameLvork, the merger of the two public operators in the Lvater sector and the
introduction of a private nlanagcnient contractor. After an unsuccessful privatization of
 Guyana Power mid Light (GPL), the public electricity company, efforts to mobilize
private investment inthe company continue.

 9,       In preparation for the erosion o f the sugar preferential regime, the govcriunent is
 restructuring GUYSUCO the state owned-sugar company. Besides having introduced a
                               -
 profit-oriented   contract management in early 2001, the restructuring plan includes
 gradual downsizing of the labor force, shifting production to high productivity areas,
 increasing participation o f the private sector in growing sugar cane, and the construction
 of a new sugar processing plant, Skeldon, whkh will also have cogeneration facilities.


 Progress in the SocialAreas

  10.      Despite the difficult domestic `and ekqernal environment, which has led to
 disappointing growth, Guyana has made progress in the implementation of its PRS,
 having attained or exceeded 56 percent of the social indicators established to monitor
 progress in the implementation o f the strategy.                 Also, the Government has ensured
 budgetary allocations for social expenditures consistently above the HIPC target of 15
 percent. In 2005, social espenditures corresponded to 19 percent o f GDP.

  11.      Key problem facing Guyana in social arcas arc migration of trained teachers and
  falling standards inprimary arid secondary education, low quality of health services, and
  inadequate access to social sersices.            To address the broader problems facing the
  education sector, the Government launched a Strategic Plnn for Education for 2003-07.
  The SPE focuses on reducing repetition rates, increasing secondary school enroliment,
  reducing overcronding, rcducing student and teacher absenteeism, improving teacher
  training aid bcginiiing the process of decentralization o f school administration. The plan
  places    special    ntiention on previoiisly undersenled students                     and remote 3rd
  ccl7nomicallS.-dc.privedrcgions. The reforiiis in thil sector ar? benefiting from assistal?ce
  as p x t of [he Education for A11 Tilitilltivi: nnJ s:itishctoi;,,     prcigrzzs is being i-tiade.

   Xnuthrr bnusirz riiiiic?AR0.4lXA is in [he laic s t a g of privatization, rspcctcd to bz caniplctcd by 1006.

12.     Reforms in the health sector are guided by the National Health Plan 2003-O?,
which includes the provision o f a standard package o f minimal services to all Guyanese
as well as measures i o spur decentralization. Findly, the government has completed a
broad consultative process and updated its Strategic Plan for I-IIV/AIDS (2002-06),
which is expected to be submilted to Parlianient for adoption. Main goals of the
IiIViAIDS Plan include increased awareness and prevention, iinproved quality of Life of
those affected, as well as reduced stigmatization.

13.     Guyana has a social protection system which includes social insurance and social
assistance. The Government i s implementing a reform program to reduce the weaknesses
o f the system, includiiig poor targeting mechanisms, inefficient delivery o f services and
inadequate monitoring and evaluation. To this end, the Government has carried out, with
support from IDA, four studies that provided reconmendations in the areas of
management information system, targeting, risk and vulnerability, labor market
assessment, social legislation, and Ministry of Labor, IIuman Services and Social Security
(MLHSSS) needs assessment. On the basis of these recommendations, the Government
has adopted and started implementing a time-bound reform program to rationalize and
improve the impact and cost-effectiveness o f the social protection programs of the
MLHSSS.


The ChallengesAhead

 14.     Difficult challenges face Guyana in the next few years.          Guyana is highly
 dependent on the exports of sugar, which will face price reductions inthe context o f the
 erosion o f the EU sugar preferential regime. Also, Guyana i s highly dependent on oil
 imports, which have seen increasing prices ininternational markets. This impliesthat the
 Govenunent will have to adopt difficult measures in its macroeconomic and structural
 reform program to contain the pressures for widening fiscal and external gaps. The
 medium-term macroeconomic framework for 2006-10 recently agreed with the IMF, the
 revised PSIP and the ongoing structural reform program illustrate the government's
 resolve to improve the macro-economic framework, and encourage private investment,
 crucial for the much needed growth inthe economy.


 Medium-TermIcfncrueconomic Franiework

  15.    The economy is expected to recover in2006, with real GDP expected to grow by
 about 4 percent, driven by the recovery o f the sugar sector and the expansion of the
 bauxite sector. For the period 2007-10, growth i s projected to be on average of about 3
 Fercent a year. IiiflaLion is expected to remain at about 7 percent in 2006, reflecting
  continued high oil prices. However, the Government intends to reinforce its stnbilization
 policies so 3s to achieye a gradual decline towards an inflatim rate o f 3 percent in 2010.

16.      The 2006 budget recently approved by Parliament illustrates the government's
rcsolve to pursue fiscal consolidation. Although the overall deficit after grants will
remain high at 13.6 percent of GDP, the deficit net o f Skeldon will decline from 8.6
percent o f GDP in 2005 to about 5 percent, and the primary balance o f the overall public
sector (excluding Skeldon) will decline from a deficit of 4 percent o f GDP in 2005 to 1
percent. Medium-term projections indicate a decline of the overall deficit to about 2.7
percent o f GDP in 2010, and o f the primary balance of the overall public sector from a
deficit of 1 percent of GDP in 2006 (excluding Skeldon) to a primary surplus of 1 percent
o f GDP by 2010. These outcomes will be achieved by maintaining the revenue effort,
containing wage and capital expenditures and improving the balances of public
enterprises.

17.      The Government intends to achieve a revenue collection o f 38 percent of GDP in
2006 and intends to maintain a strong reveiiuieffort until 2010, while gradually reducing
current and capital expenditure.                    In 2006, current expenditures are projected to be
reduced to 34 percent of GDP, and are expected to decline to 30 percent in2010. As for
capital expenditures, the 2006 budget sets them at 27 of GDP in 2006 (including 8
percent o f GDP for the Skeldon project), and are projected to gradually decline to 14
percent in 2010, as the large investments related to the Skeldon project, the cricket
stadium and other large projects are completed.

 18.     Guyana's external current account deteriorated from a deficit of 10 percent of
 GDP in2004 to 23 percent in2005, and projections suggest that it will deteriorate further
 to 27 percent of GDP in 2006. This trend reflects the oil price shock, extraordinary
 imports in the aftermath o f the floods and the ambitious public investment program,
 notably for the restructuring o f the sugar sector. Nevertheless, capital inflows are
 expected to enable a moderate increase in official reserves, and the remaining financing
 gap is expected to be closed by the MDRIdebt relief and donor support. During 2007-
 10, the fiscal adjustment, coupled with a somewhat improved growth outlook and the
 completion of the Skeldon project, would narrow the external current account deficit to
 14 percent o f GDP by 2010. The remaining financing gap would 6e manageable, and
 could be covered by MDRI debt relief and some additional balance of payment support
 from d o n ~ r s .Given the uncertain external environment andthe related macroeconomic
                         ~
 risks, the Government prograni may require further fiscal tightening to address
 unexpected developments.

  19.     The Government intends to maintain debt sustainability in the medium term, by
 maintaining the revenue effort and stimulating stronger growth. This aim was much
 helpedby the relief provided under IUIDRI.

 Structural Refirnu t i ilie Pirbiic Sector

  20.     The government intends to deepen its reform a_renda initiated in 2002, which
  includes     tax         administration,       public expenditure management.        governancz and


  'hiyniiai n sD C C ~ S Sto conccssional financing uiidcr the PetroCaribc .4ccord.

transparency, PRS monitoring and evaluation, and measures to strengthen private sector
development.

21.       The Government intends to implement the VAT 'and a new Excise tax on January
1, 2007. The hfiiiister o f Finance has issued the orders providing that the VAT, the
Escise Tax Act and Uieir regulations come into effect at that date and preparatory work
for the new taxes i s noiv ongoing. The Government also coinniissioned a study on tlir
tax system, which recommended steps to reduce the coiiiplzsity o f the system and to
improke its efficiency and equity. The Govemient i s now considering tlie study, Lvhich
may inforin future measures to be undert,lkcn.

22.       The Governnient intends to introduce measures to improve the quality,
transparency and accountability of tlie public sector.           With IDB assistance, the
government intcnds to develop and implement a framework to classify the senu-
autonomous agencies and statutory bodies by end-May 2006. The Goveriuncnt also
plans to undertake a pilot program to strengthen management and accountability in six
entities, and intends to complete a study o f the context within which regular transfers of
 net earnings can be made by large generating statutory bodies to the consolidated fund.

 23.      The modernization o f the public sector i s another important component of the
 Government reform program.          With assistance from the IDB, the Government is
 conducting an assessment of the institutional and organizational capacity of each
 Ministry, which will provide important inputs for the public sector modernization
 programto be implemented over the medium-term.

 24.      To improve expenditure management and under the support o f the PRPMO, in
 August 2005 the Government prepared and published, with IDB and World Bank
 technical assistance, a five-year rolling Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP)
 consistent with the PRS objectives. On the basis o f the results o f the IMF-World Bank
 joint Debt Sustainability Analysis (DSA), in September 2005 the Government revised the
 five-year PSIP to ensure its consistciicy with macroeconomic and debt sustainability.
 The revised PSIP was made public and integrated into the 2006 budget (submitted to
 Parliament    OR January 23, 2006). The Government intends to revise and publish on an
  annual basis the five-year PSIP, consistent with PRS objectives, debt sustainability and
 project selection and ra&ing methodology contained in the 2005-2009 PSIP, and to
  integrate it in annual budgets. Also, to improve the management of capital expenditure
  the Government requires that all new projects with costs (net of grants) exceeding US10
  miIlion, excluding those financed by multilateral financial institutions, have a feasibility
  study reviewed by the IDB or the World Bank for economic, environmental and financial
  rriabi1ity.

  25.      A s part o f the program to modernize financial management in the public sector
  aiso supported by PRPhIO, a neyv Audit Act was prepared b j the Governmen: ,and
  enxted by Parilaine1it in April 2003. I t makes the Oilifice o f the Auditor General a semi-
  aLLtoiioinous agcncy responsible to the Piirliament   Regulations detailing niles! p d i c i s
  and procedures regarding thc maria.g:msnt     and operation o f the Audit Office and the

conduct o f audits were prepared by the G o w m e n t and, following approval by
Parliament in May 2005, were gazetted in July 2005.

26.       In2004, the Office o f the Auditor-General's (OAG) rcport identified a number of
key deficiencies in the financial operations o f the Government and the reform program
supported by the PRPMO has drann upon major findings in the report io strengthen
targeted reforms in related m a s . First, the Governnient intends to clearly define, submit
to I'arliament and publish the criteria for the selection of projects to he financed from the
1,utteries Fund. In addition, the Lottery Fund will be subject to annual financial audits,
xvhich will be tabled in Parliament. The financial audit for 2004 has been completed and
tabled in Parliament. In addition, reports o f all projects submitted and seiected for
financing, including the amounts provided, will be submitted to Parliament and published
biaimually. The Government has also coinpleted a cornpliancc audit of the terms of the
Lottery Agreement including validation o f the calculation basis for determining the
amounts owed to the Government.

27.       Second, on the basis of the Auditor-General's recommendations, the revenues
derived from the operations of the Wildlife Division (1998-2002) have been transferred
to the Consolidated Fund, and the Wildlife Division has been transferred from the Office
 of the President to the Environniental Protection Agency (EPA). The Wildlife Division
 i s now an integral part of the EPA operations and all revenues, expenditures, assets and
 liabilities relating to this division will be recorded inthe books and accounts, and hence
 reflected inthe financial reporting, o f the EPA.

 28.      Third, the audit of the Guyana Revenue Authority (GR4)'s operations for 2003
 has been completed and tabled inthe National Assembly. Inaddition, the Government
 has appointed the commissioner and deputy commissioner of the GRA as requiredby the
 law. Fourth, the Government has undertaken to table all existing external loans in the
 National Assembly, thereby increasing transparency.           The actions mentioned above
 ensure compliance with the Audit Act provision that the Government act on the Auditor
  General's recommendations and increase the accountability and efficiency in the use of
 public sector resources. The Government is committed to continue to make progress in
  the public financial management improvement program as evidenced by satisfactory
  implementation of the 2004 Audit Act.

  29.      Another set o f measures to strengthen financial management are in the area o f
  fiduciary oversight. The Government commissioned a series of studies, which made
  recommendations in three mains areas: (i)      effective parliamentary oversight over public
  finances; (ii)curtailing discretionary powers of public officials; and (iii)effective public
  disclosure of assets o f public officials. The recommendations were subject to broad
  consultations and the Government has selected 30 of the 60 recornmendations detailed in
  the studies, for first phase implementation until end 2007.         These include capacity-
  building actions for improved oversight of public finances by Parliament, the adoption of
  internal rules, external reporting and training to limit d i s c r z t i o n q pnwers; and the
  eiiliircement o f existing public assct disclosure ru!ss and definition o f the roles and
  responsibilities of the Integrity Commission and related agencies. The Gotmmiznt has
   n;lopted a time-bound action plan for iniplementation of these 30 rccornrnendations and

h a s already stnrtcd i t s implctncntntion with the drafting of Standing Orders. Thc
Go\.,eriirncrit is committed to reviewing the remaining 30 rccornmendations for
implenientation after completion of thc first phase.

30.       The Government has also continued the reform of its regulatory and institutional
public procurement frameJvork, Notably, it has adopted and disseminated the amended
Wational lJrocurement Act and Regulations, appointed staff far the National and Regional
Tender Boards and Secretariat, adopted standard hiddiiig docments and evaiuation
criieiia, and had the Office o f thc Auditor General complete the firjt annual audit of
procurement operations to rcview procurement practices used since the enactment of the
 I?CW     Procurement Act and Regulations.         The Go~ernnientintends 10 act on the
 rcconimendations of this audit in 2006. The Goveiimznt also intends to conduct annual
 audits of procurement operations and act on their reconin-rertdations.

 3 1.      One additional set of measures supported by the PRPMO is ainied at improving
 the Government's ability to monitor and evaluate the impact of policies introduced in the
 context o f its PRS. Actions that have been undertaken, with the support from IDA, IDB,
 UNDP and DflD, include: (i)the strengthening of the Statistics Bureau; (ii)publication
  of 2002 census data; (iii)launching of the Household Income and Expenditure Survey in
  September 2005; (iv) publication o f thc executed public current and capital expenditures
  by sector and by priority poJterty-related programs on a bi-annual basis; and (v)
  preparation o f a map describing access to basic services, t~hichnil1be updated regularly.
  The Government intends to further strengthen its monitoring and erpaluation of its PRS
  implementation, including by expanding its public expenditure tracking system and using
  census and household income and expenditure suiiey results to inform PRS progress
  reports and budget allocations.




  22.       The Government is undertaking a major restructuring and modernization plan to
  improve the competitiveness and viability o f i t s s u p industry after the erosion o f the EU
   preftrential regime.     The Government had adopted A d is implementing, through
   Guysuco, an Environmental Rianagenient Plm (EMP) f9r the new sugar mill and
   associated canefields expansion.     The EicIP has been prepared by GUYSUCO and
   carefully resiewed by IDPI, which found i t to be satisfactory. In particular, as per the
   EhfP, GUYSUCO mill manage the Halcrow and Guysuco Consenancies, comprising
   some 7,500 hectares of freshsvater swmp and reef forest, in a manzer consistent with
   wildlife and biodiversity consenation, thereby effectively mitigating the natural habitat
   loss associated \vith expanding cane cultivation. In addition, the PHW g a n t For the
   PRPlLIO provided technical assistance to the Goveinment for a site selection study o f the
    r,ev,' lnndhli that GUE'SUCO Lvill need fc7r Lvastzs generatti3 by constrac:ion and
    cFera:ion of the Skeldon fasilities, a j \vel1 as for a Rapid B i ~ ~ l ~ iAsstsjnltnt of the
                                                                                ~ i c d
    consesmcy area to pro\ ide useful baseline data for biodixierjity 1nonitarlr.g and
    mamgcnisnt.     GIJJ'SUCO has also prepiircd. and -is s].srernz.ticnl!y      implemen:ing, a
    d,t&i\ed fcst h,lanagemcpLtPl3.n [hilt eiiiphlisi?,ss integrated F'S:   I'tlXt~lg~nltl~t.
                                                                                            careful ,

selection of compounds, safe pesticide use and storage, and free pest Inanageintnt
t ~ h n i c a lassistance to private farmers who are or will be providing cane for the new
Skeldon factory.

33.       Thc Government has tabled in Parliament a new Forests Bill that has been drafted
with the assistance o f DfID that also reflects detaiicd technical comments from IDA staff. The
new Forests Bill aims at irnp:oving the legal basis far the sustainable and environmentally
sound management o f Guyana's forests.             Among other features, the new law \{,ill
increase transparency in the establishment o f conservation concessions and special
protected areas, while respecting Amerindian rights and allowing For opportunity for
conmunity-based forestry o n Amerindian lands. The Government also intends 10 update
 the Code o f Practice to support implementation of the new Forests Bill.

 33.       The Government intends to draft and submit to Parliament a new Mining Bili
 aimed at improving the regulatory environment for the mining sector, which is
 undergoing expansion, after the demise of the OMAImine. The new legal andregulatory
 framework will also provide the basis for controlling the informal gold and diamonds
 activities involved in environmentally destructive practices.           In this respect, the
 Government is receiving technical assistance under the PHRD grant for the PRPMO for
 the preparation o fa Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) o f the mining sector to serve as a
 basis for the new Mining Bill.

 35.       The Government also intends to submit to Parliament an updated Wildlife Bill
 improvingthe legal basis io protect and sustainably manage wildlife.

  36.       T h e Government o f Guyana'is fully committed to the improvement of the living
  conditions o f the Guyanese people, through the successful implementation of the PRS
  and the reform programthat it encompasses. On behalf of the Government of Guyana, I
  wish to thank IDA for the assistance already provided for the implementation of the PRS,
  in particular o f the important reforms in public sector management. This support has
  been critical in assisting the Government to improve the quality, transparency and
  accountability o f public sector management, and as \vel1 as to strengthen environmental
  management and regulations. Itrust that this request for additional assistance through thc
  proposed PRPMQ \vi11 receive your favorable consideration.

                                           Yours sincerely,      .


                                         hiinister o f Finance


'p




      a
      8

                                            Annex VI1

                  Policy actionsrelatingto the Auditor Gener Recommendations

                    (Audit Report2004 for FiscalYear endingDecember31,2003)



InSeptember2004, the Office of the Auditor-General's (OAG) report covering fiscal year 2003
(January-December 2003) identifiedanumber of deficiencies inthe financial operations of the
Government andthe reformprogramsupportedby the proposedPRPMOhas drawn upon major
findings inthe report to strengthentargetedreforms inrelatedareas. The following arekey
deficiencies identifiedinthe OAGreport, which the Government has addressed as partof the
PRPMO reform agenda:

     0  Clearly define, submit to Parliament andpublishthe criteria for the selection of projects
        to be financed fromthe Lotteries Fund.

     0  Conclude acompliance audit with the terms of the Lottery Agreement including
        validation of the calculationbasis for determining the amounts owed to the Government.
        (24 percent)

     0  Carry out an annualfinancial audit of the Lottery Fund(for 2004) and table it in
        Parliament.

     0  Submit to Parliamentandpublishafirst report on allprojects proposedand those selected
        for financing andthe amount of fundingprovidedandagreeto publishsuch a report
        semi-annually.

     0  Arrange for the transfer to the Consolidated Fundof the revenuesderived from the
        operations of the Wildlife Division (1998-2002). Transfer the Wildlife Divisionfrom the
        Office  of the Presidentto the Environmental Protection Agency.

     0  Appoint commissioner anddeputy commissioner of the GuyanaRevenueAuthority, as
        requiredby the law.

     0  Ensurethat allexisting external loanshavebeentabled inthe National Assembly.

     0  Audit of the GRA's operations for 2003 completed andtabled inthe NationalAssembly.




                                                51

                                                  Annex VI11

                                  ImprovingFiduciaryOversightinGuyana

To improve public financial management,the Government agreed, under PRSC-I, andon the basis of the
CFAArecomrnendation~,3~to strengthenfiduciary oversight, which hasthree elements: (i)            ensuring
effective parliamentary oversight over public finances (Study 1); (ii)     curtailingdiscretionary powers of
public officials (Study 2); and (iii) ensuring effective public disclosure of assets of officials (Study 3). In
2005, consultants financed by the PSTACprepared studies on each of these elements?6 Out of 60
recommendations detailed inthe studies, the Government identified 30 for implementationina first phase
(January-June 2006):

Study I: STRENGTHENINGFIDUCIARY OVERSIGHT

  1.    Parliament mustbe incontrol of its own Budget.
  2.    An oral question time should be set down each sittingday, andMinisters must answer OQs inthe
        House within atime frame to be defined.
  3.    Ministers should be required to respond in writing to Written Questions within a time frame to be
        defined.
  4.    Bills passed by Parliament should be given Presidential Asset in accordance with the
        Constitution.
  5.    Key members of Parliament should be given training in how to undertake Fiduciary Oversight
        Role.
  6.    Debates, OQs and written questions and answers, accountability documents, reports from the
        Auditor General and Ombudsman, Committee reports, and reports should be posted on the
        Parliamentary website.
  7.    Members should be able to petition the Speaker for Urgent (Le. same sitting day) Debate on a
        matter of national importance.
  8.    Resourceeach Committee with: a full time analyst; a full time researchassistance; an experienced
        writer drawnfrom the Clerk's office; and a committee clerk
  9.    Fundthe committees to allow engagement of specialist advisers (e.g. ontax or financial matters.)
  10. The Committees should use their enquiry powers to undertake in depth investigators of
        government matters, with the requirement they report to Parliament within 6 months of
        commencing investigation.
  11. The Committees should use their powers to call officials and Ministers as well as witnesses
        outside government, before them to question any matter. Ministers and officials should be
        required to attend, and if not, submit their reasons in writing expeditiously to the chair of the
        committees.
  12. Ministers and officials should be required to respond to requests for information by the
        committees in a timely manner, as if they do not, the committee chair should report this formally
        to the house.
  13.   Following an Oversight Committee Report to Parliament which has recommendations for action,
        the Executive must report in writing to Parliament within three (3) months the action it proposes
        to make or reasons why action has not or cannot be taken.
  14.   The President should be asked to present an Annual State of the Nation Speech to Parliament at
        the beginning of each year.
  15.   All Billsshould be reviewed and certify for Constitutional consistency by the Attorney General

-~

35See PRSC-1,Annex VIII, Letter from Government EndorsingCFAA Work Program.
36BradfordandAssociates Ltd, GuyanaFiduciary Oversight Project,July 4,2005.




                                                        52

 16. Minister should make major policy statements in the House if they are not foreshadowed in the
     President's Annual State of the Nation Speech, or the Budget.
 17. Recommendations made by the Auditor General in his annual reports to the PAC should be
     addressedandacted on by Parliament expeditiously.
 18. The Executive should report to Parliament not later than 2 months after the Auditor General's
     report is tabled and approved inParliament on action taken on particular recommendations made
     by the AG.
     The above original formulation has beenrevised to readas follow:
     The Executive should report to Parliament not later than 2 months after the PAC's report on its
     examination of the Auditor General Report i s adoptedby Parliament.
 19. Ombudsman`s Report should be table in the House through the Speaker and become the subject
     of Parliamentary debate.
 20. The Ombudsmanoffice should be resourcedadequatelyto ensure it can employ investigatory and
     prosecutorial staff to undertake inquiries on its own behalf.

Study11:              LIMITING USEOF DISCRETIONAYPOWERS

 21. Onthe basis of this report andthe detailed materials inthe annexesto Study 2 on decisions, rights
     andprocess, develop specific recommendationsinrespectto each agency to be consideredby the
     office of the focusing on:
         0      Rights of Ministers andthe President to override and give exemptions to laws and the
                case for removing some of these;
         0      Clarifying independent powers of commissioners that are not subject to higher
                authorities;
         0      Transparency of processes for takingagency decisions to higher authority
         0      Rationalizationof functions where there are overlappingjurisdictions between agencies
                and Ministers to clarify lines of accountability e'g' utility regulation, licensing and
                competition;
         0      Providing requirements and process that enable greater transparency and oversight by
                Parliament inaccordance with the Constitution.
 22. Usingthe material in the annexes to volume 3 develop specific recommendations for the Office
     of the President andMinister to clarify roles, responsibilities and relationships betweenPresident,
     Ministers, boards, Chief Executives offices/ Commissioners and remove people from conflicted
     roles in a practical way over time.
 23. Formulate improved procedures for accountability of agencies for their discretionary decisions
     within the Executive andunder the Constitution:
         0      Office of the President and Ministry of Finance work jointly to develop an integrated
                process for strategic planning, service commitments , budgeting and performance
                reporting;
         0      Establishingthe obligation for all regulations to be tabled inthe House.
         0      Strengthening the capacity and resources of the select committees and the Attorney
                general to scrutinize the performance and practices of the semi autonomousagencies.
         0      ProvidingParliament with sufficient resourcesneededto conduct its businessaccording
                to the Constitution.
 24. Strengthening the capacity of agency boards: the Government should develop a code of
     principles, standardsand good practices for the conduct of board members and a program to train
     and develop board members ingood governancepractices.
 25. Develop andpromulgate proper principles for setting fees andchanges.
 26. Strengthenthe rights of review and appeal to discretionary decisions of agencies and make them
     transparent.




                                                  53

 27.   Review and rationalize rights to impose penalties.
 28.   Review rights to grant exemptions from laws administered by the agencies.

Study 111:              DISCLOSUREOFPUBLICOFFICIALS' ASSETS

 29.   The Office of the Auditor General should be nominated as the liaison agency for the Integrity
       Commission.
 30.   The Commission should be expanded along the lines of the T&T Commission to take on four
       roles; Prevention; Investigation; Enforcement andEnlistmentof public support.


Under the PRPMOreform agenda, the Government has:
       Held stakeholder consultations to agree on reforms and implementation processbasedon the
       recommendations contained inpackages 1to 4 of studies 1,2 and 3 of the consultant's final
       report of the fiduciary oversight project;
       issuedpress releasespecifyingreforms agreedto with stakeholdersduringthe consultations
       process (the 30 actions listedabove);
       agreedwith the WorldBank andpublishedan actionplanfor the implementation of the reforms
       agreedto with stakeholders, includinga timeline, technical assistance requirements andfunding
       sources;

       Responsible Ministers madepolicy statements inthe National Assembly specifyingreforms
       agreedto with stakeholders; and
       Submitted to Parliament draft revised StandingOrders .




                                                   54

                                                   Annex M

                                     STATUS OF TRIGGERS FORPRSC-I1

                                              POLICYACTIONS
I PRSC-I
  ACTIONS COMPLETEDFOR                    TRIGGERSFORPRSC-II                  CURRENTSTATUS

                         BROADBASED[OBSGENERATINGECONOMIC LOWTH
  Agreement on a macro-economic        Adherence to Program         Fifthreview underthe IMF
  program with performance                                          supportedPRGF was successfully
  targets for fiscal andBalance of                                  completedat end-January 2006.
  Payments deficits, monetary
  growth (incontext of IMF PRGF)
   Complete overall review of tax      Develop atimetablefor the    A timetable was developedin2003
   systemandadministration with        implementationof findings of andthe government is implementing
   IMFassistance, with a view to:      tax study.                   the action plans. Mainactions
        Broadening tax base;                                        completedinclude: (i)  enactmentof
        Reducingrates;                                              the VAT and ExciseTax legislation
        Improvingtax                                                (2005) and subsequentapprovalby
        administration, including                                   Parliamentof the implementing
        enhanced transparency in                                    regulations(January 2006). VAT is
        the application of the tax                                  scheduled to be introducedJanuary 1,
        system to private investors.                                2007; (ii) elimination of the
                                                                              the
                                                                    Minister of Finance's discretionary
                                                                    powers to grantexemptions; (iii)
                                                                    limitonmosttax holidays to 5 years;
                                                                    (iv) increase inthe income tax
                                                                    threshold.

  Review laws governingminingand       Introduce and pass Amended   The ForestryLaw has been tabled in
  forestry sectorsto ensure that they  Forests Law, after           Parliament.
  provide adequateincentivesfor        undertaking appropriate
  investors, as well as sufficient     public consultations.
  environmentalprotection.Begin
  drafting new ForestryLaw.            Redraft mininglegal          A Strategic Environmental
                                       framework and undertake      Assessment of the mining sector has
                                       sector environmental         beenlaunched.This will be an input
                                       assessment.                  to the MiningBill, which is being
                                                                    drafted. Submissionto Parliamentof
                                                                    a new Mining Billis apolicy action
                                                                    for PRPMO-11.

   Fullenvironmentalimpact             Eliminate sugar levy and     The levy has beeneliminated.
   assessment for the new Skeldon      substitutedividend scheme
   sugar mill and associatedland
   developmenthas beenconducted.

   Issue tender for construction of    Complete agreement between   Done.
   Skeldon sugar mill; agree to        GoG and GUYSUCO on
   provide any needed                  sector performance and
   environmental mitigationfor         profitability.
   new land development affecting
   natural habitats.

 Agreement with Government on    Revise current management      The new management contract has 3
 a three year programto reduce   contract and shift performance Elementsin its fee structure:
 redundant workers andto limit   indicators to measures of      contractor's reimbursable (expatriate
 salaries and bonusesin the      profitability                  related expenses), a fixed fee and a
 sugar sector.                                                  fee tied to success in meetingprofit
                                                                targets.

                                 Amend Cane Payment System      Guysuco is seeking to implement a
                                 Act                            new cane payment formula that will
                                                                reducethe payments to cane growers.

                                 Complete Environmental         The Environmental Management
                                 Impact Assessment of Skeldon   Plan for the Skeldon sugar factory
                                 Millandlanddevelopment,        and associatedcanefield expansion
                                 including an agreed            has been adopted and satisfactory
                                 EnvironmentalManagement        progress is being made inits
                                 Plan, before signing civil     implementation.
                                 works contract.

                                 Base worker remuneration and   Discussions between Guysuco and
                                 bonuseson inflation and        the trade unionare ongoing.
                                 productivity gains




                                 Develop and implement          Land divesture programhas been
                                 GUYSUCO land divesture         prepared butlandsales are
                                 program.                       proceeding below expectations.

                          BETTEB NVESTMENTSINHUMANCAPIT)
Formulation and approval of a    Establish management           Ongoing. The Ministry of Health has
nationalstrategic planfor        arrangements for the           hired a civil society coordinator and
HIV/AIDS.                        implementation of HIV/AIDs.     11 CBOs have been identified for
                                 programincludingprogram        fundingunder the World Bank
                                 execution through multiple     program.
                                 ministries, NGOs,
                                 community groups and civil
                                 society organizations.

Establish a programmanagement    Establishprogramcosting and    Programcosting has been done.
unitinthe Ministry of Health     financial protocols.           Financial protocols to be established.
(National AIDS Programme
Secretariat) and appoint core
Staff.



                                 Develop institutional          Work has begun with the aim of
                                 arrangements for program       harmonizing a list of measurable
                                 monitoring and impact          indicators. The Ministry of Health is
                                 evaluation.                    inthe process of engaging a long
                                                                term consultant to develop
                                                                monitoringand evaluation capacity
                                                                for HIV/AIDS and other health
                                                                programs.




                                                  56

                                    HIV/AIDS project prepared         Projectwas approvedinApril 2004.
                                    and presentedfor IDA
                                    financing under the regional      The action plan was discussedat the
                                    HIV/AIDS APL;                     Thematic group meetingand
                                    -    first year action plan       approved inApril 2004.
                                         approved;                    OperationalManual approvedby
                                    -   operationalmanual             Ministry Policy Committee.
                                    approved

Develop action plan, including      Expandthe coverageof SMIS         Governmenthas made some progress
monitoring and incentive            (School Information               inexpandingSMIS.
mechanism, for reachingPRSP         ManagementSystem) inorder
goals interms ofreducedrepetition   to strengthen monitoring &
rates inprimary schools, increased  tracking capacity, and equity.
enrolmentinsecondary schools,
reducedovercrowding, reduced
absenteeismof studentsand
teachers, increasednon- teacher
recurrentexpenditures,and
improvementsinteacher training
                                    Actively promotestakeholder       About 80% of schools havePTS
                                    participation at the school level which meet at leastonce ayear.
                                    throughthe organizationand
                                    strengtheningof schoolboard
                                    or equivalentmechanism.

                                    Constructionof new schools I      Over 150primary schools were
                                    rehabilitation of existing        rehabilitated at the cost of morethan
                                    schools accordingto the action    US$3.25 million.
                                    plan

                                    Increasethe number of trained     Training Centersestablishedin
                                    teachers throughpre-service       Hinterland Regionsto facilitate
                                    and in-service training           training of teachers usingdistance
                                                                      educationmethods. The total number
                                                                      of trained teachers has increased
                                                                      from 555 in2002 to 707 in 2004.

                                    Increase the availability of      Procurementof textbooks beganin
                                    textbook ks and other learning    2004 with assistanceof the World
                                    materialsto students              Bank EFA-FTI.


Designaformula basedsystem for      Prepare andundertake pilot        The formula is completed. School
allocation of financial resourcesto trials in6 schoolsin2             Boards are managingresourcesat 3
schools.                            regions.                          schoolsinRegion2 and 3 schools in
                                                                      Region 4 with preliminary
                                                                      accounting,

Completesystem design and the       Establishpreliminary version      This has not beenimplemented
selectionof pilotimplementation     of accounting, resource
sites.                              transfer, financial reporting and
                                    auditing procedures.




                                                      57

                STRONGPUBLICSE 'OR INSTITUTIONSAND BETTER 3VERNANCE
Preparedraftof newNational       Enactnew Audit Act andbegin    Vew Audit Act was passedby the
Audit Act.                       implementingits provisions     Yational Assembly inApril 2004 and
                                                                mplementingregulationswere
                                                                pzettedinMay, 2005.
Agree on a programto             Implementagreedprograms
implement the findingsof the     basedon CFAA
CFAA report (see Annex VIII),    recommendations.
including:

1. A programto strengthenthe                                    4uditor General's key
  Auditor General's                                             :ecommendations inthe 2004report
  Department, with respect to                                   lavebeenimplemented(see details
  staffing, salariesandtraining;                                insee detailsinPRPMOProgram
                                                                Document).

2. Establishmentof financial                                    Firstphaseoffiduciary oversight
   oversightof the publicsector                                 strengtheningprogramhasbeen
   within the existingEconomic                                  launched(see details inPRPMO
   Affairs Committeeof the                                      ProgramDocument).
   Parliament.
3. Analysisof ways to reduce
   discretionalityin6
   governmentagencies;
4. Take steps to make effective  Take steps to integratecapital IFh4AS andBPRSimplemented.
   the Government'spolicyof      andrecurrentexpenditures, and
   public disclosureofthe        introduceprogrambudgetingin
   financial affairs of bypublic at least two ministries(GEMP
   officials.                    program).

                                 Parliamentapprovalof new       A FinancialManagementand
                                 FinancialAdministration Act    AccountabilityAct was enactedin
                                                                December2003.

NationalProcurementAct 2002      Passamendedversionof           AmendedNationalProcurementAct
hasbeenpassedby the National     National ProcurementAct.       was passedby the National
Assembly.                                                       AssemblyinJuly 2003 andgazetted
                                                                inNovember2004.



Circular No. 0802regarding
administrativeprocedureshas been
issuedby the Ministryof Finance.

CreateNationalProcurementand     Appoint membersof the Public   Membersnotappointed.The names
Tender Administration(NPTA)      ProcurementCommittee(PPC)      of the personsfor considerationare
Secretariatandappointrequired    and its secretariat.           with the PublicAccounting
staff.                                                          Committeeof Parliament.

                                 Introduce and pass enabling    Notrequiredby the Constitutionof
                                 legislationto operationalize   Guyana.
                                 PPC


                                 Adopt and disseminatenew       Regulationswere adopted in
                                 rulesand regulationsto make    December 2004 and disseminated.
                                 Procurement Act effective.




                                                  58

                                    Prepare and adopt standard        Standard bidding documents were
                                    bidding documentsand             completedanddisseminatedin a
                                    evaluation criteria for both     pilot phasein2005.
                                    national and regional
                                    tenders.

                                   Appoint membersof the              Boardmembers for National and
                                   NPTB.                              RegionalTender Boardsand
                                                                      Secretariathavebeen appointed.

                                    Start nationwide training         One round of training program was
                                    program.                          completedinJuly 2005; another
                                                                      round is beingprogrammed

                                    Start implementationof public     As part of IDBCAS condition,
                                   information system.                procurementdiscussionswill be
                                                                      published on the GINA website.
                                                                      Work is ongoing on ane-
                                                                      Drocurementsvstem

Complete revaluationof             Issue report of Local              Reportcompletedin 2005 andis
immovableproperties infour         Government Task Force, and         currently awaiting cabinet's
municipalities inGuyana; begin     hold adequate consultations.       approval.
process of incorporatingrevised
valuations into tax rolls.

Re-institute the power to seize    Beginrevaluationof                 Valuation completedin4
andsellrealpropertyoftax           immovablepropertiesfor             municipalities in2004 -Lindenand
defaulters (re- institute sections remaining municipalities.          Georgetownongoing (2005)
of law 28.01 and28.02 which
have beensuspended).
                                   Revise LGlawsto:
                                    1. Implementa systemof            Directive sent to all NDC's inMarch
                                         self-accounting where        2003 to establishseparatebank
                                         each localgovernment         accounts.
                                         holds individual
                                         accounts.
                                    2. Allow NDCs to hold
                                         property users and
                                         proprietors liable for taxes

                                   Develop a simple formula-          Valuation for Rating Purposes
                                   basedsystemfor providing           Amendment Act 2005 assented to by
                                   subventionsfrom central            the PresidentJuly 2005.
                                   government to local
                                   government (LG) units              Municipal andDistrict Council
                                                                      Amendment Bill presentedto
                                                                      Parliament inApril 2005, now with
                                                                      the Parliament SelectCommittee

                                   Enforceauditing protocols of       FiscalTransfer Bill -pending the
                                   localgovernment bodies             approval of the Joint Task Force
                                                                      Report




                                                    59

                                    Agree on a mechanism so that     Capacitybuildingworkshops
                                    citizens can access the financial ongoing throughoutthe
                                    recordsof LGs and minutes        NDC'sDMC's in2006 -07.
                                    and voting recordsof L G          Developedimproved financial
                                    meetings.                        managementguidelines for NDC's in
                                                                      2005.

                                                                      Consultationsto be heldwith
                                                                      stakeholders andMinister. Local
                                                                      GovernmentRegulationsrequire
                                                                      only aMinisterialOrder once
                                                                      agreement is reached.

 Establish a new Policy             PCPMUestablished and              The PCPMUi s now fully
 Coordination and Program           functioning.                      operational.
 ManagementUnit (PCPMU) in
 the Office of the President,
 consistingof aMonitoring&
 Evaluation and Policy units.
 Appoint coordinator and core staff
 to, inter alla, oversee
 implementation and monitoring of
 the PRSP.

 Agree to carry out overall         Monitoringplan being              Monitoringplan is being
 monitoring andevaluationplan (as implemented.                        implementedas evidenceby:
 showninAnnex VI), which                                              publication on a semi-annualbasis of
 includescivil society              Implementationof planwith         executedcurrent andcapitalpublic
 participation.                     helpof externaltechnical          expendituresby sector and priority
                                    assistance                        poverty-relatedprograms;
 Approve plan to strengthen the                                       publication of 2002 census data;
 Bureauof Statistics, supportedby                                     launchof HouseholdIncomeand
 IDATAC                                                               Expenditure Survey; andpreparation
                                                                      of map of access to basic services.


Agree with IMFon the total amount Agree on a mechanism for            Wage discipline has beenmaintained
to be spent onpublic sector wages   future public sector wage         and staff recruitmenthas been
in the budgetfor 2002.              adjustments, and apply to         restrictedto essential services.
                                    increasesfor 2003.


                  BROADERAND BE ITRPROVISIONOFBASIC SOCIA SERVICES
ImDlement new legal and
                   -                Satisfactoryimplementation of     Governmentprogresshas been
regulatory framework through        the legal and regulatory          broadly satisfactory (see para 14in
passageof new water act and         framework as per the new          the document).
issuanceof operating licensefor     water act, including capacity
Guyana Water and new                building for key institutions.
regulations.

Establishnational water quality     Maintainpricing and subsidy       Pricingand subsidy agreementsare
standards.                          agreements so as to achieve       being observed. Completedreview of
                                    100%cost recoveryfor              GeorgetownWater and Sewerage
                                    Operationand Maintenance          Master Plan
                                    expenditures.




                                                    60

Complete merger of the two
existing utilities, forming Guyana
Water.

Management contract for private
operator of Guyana Water has
been tendered anda preferred
bidder has been selected.
Tariffs adjusted andsubsidy
levelsfor 2002 agreed.
                                   CreateHinterland unit in     Hinterland Strategy has been
                                   Guyana Water and have it in  approved, Department established
                                   operation                    and is inoperation.

                                   Implement secondphaseof      A programto increase accessto
                                   water supply programfor poor water services inurban squatter
                                   squatter developments        neighborhoods and rural hinterland is
                                                                ongoing. Over 40,000 people have
                                                                benefited form improved services in
                                                                regions 1,2,3,5,6 and 10.




                                                  .61

                                            ANNEXX
                                  GUYANA-FUNDRELATIONS



                                                                              EXTERNAL
                                                                              RELATIONS
                                                                              DEPARTMENT




Press ReleaseNo. 05/20                                        International Monetary Fund
FOR IMMEDIATERELEASE                                          Washington, D.C. 20431USA
February 1,2006


       IMFExecutiveBoardCompletesFifthReviewofGuyana's PRGFArrangement

The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund(IMF)has completed the fifthreview
of Guyana'seconomic performance under its SDR 54.55 million (about US$78.7 million)
Poverty ReductionandGrowthFacility (PRGF) arrangement (see PressReleasesNo. 02/42).
Completion of the review makes a disbursementinan amount equivalent to SDR 9.27 million
(about US$13.4 million) immediately available to Guyana. The Executive Boardalso approved
Guyana'srequestfor waivers of non-observanceof three performance criteria.

Followingthe Executive Boards discussion of Guyana, Mr.Takatoshi Kato, Deputy Managing
Director andActing Chair, said:

"Guyana has continued to make progress under the PRGF arrangement. The exchangerate
remainedstable, the external current accountpositionwas better than anticipated, andthe
structural reformagenda movedahead. However, economic activity declined sharply in2005,
owing largely to adverse shocks, andinflationwas higher, reflecting the pass-throughof world
oil prices.

"The 2005 macroeconomicprogramwas on track, seen inparticular ina solidfiscal
performance. Strong revenues anddelayed spendingfor the Skeldon sugar modernization project
more thanoffset an increase incurrent and other capital spendingand a shortfall ingrant
disbursements.

"However, there havebeen slight delays incompleting the tax exemption study andthe five-year
rollingPublic Sector Investment Program (PSIP), andinadopting implementing regulations for
the VAT and the excise tax. Progresshas now beenmadeinall these areas.




                                             62

"A key focus of the 2006 program is fiscal retrenchment. This will require maintainingthe
revenueeffort, keeping a tight rein on current and capital spending, andimprovingthe balance
sheets of the public enterprises. Itwill be criticalfor the authorities to resist pressuresfor
additional spending--especially relatedto the Cricket World Cup-and          to monitor fiscal
developmentsclosely.

"Monetary and exchangeratepolicies will continue to be gearedto meeting the program's
inflation objectives andmaintaining competitiveness. The recentincreaseininflation
underscoresthe importance of careful adherence to the program's monetary targets.
The authorities are encouragedto develop an action planto strengthenthe financial sector, on the
basis of the FSAPrecommendations.

"The 2006program maintainsthe momentumof structural reforms. Preparatorywork for the
introduction of the VAT will be intensified to ensureits smooth implementation after the
elections. Wide-ranging reforms plannedinother key areas will lay the basis for private sector-
ledgrowth.

"Sustained fiscal adjustment and arestructuringof the sugar sector will be criticalto cope with
pressureson the balanceof paymentscoming from highworld oil prices andthe reformof EU
sugar import policies. While Guyana's debt indicators have improved-reflecting         abetter
revenueandgrowth outlook, as well as the delivery of debt relief under the MultilateralDebt
Relief Initiative (MDRI)-prudent    fiscal policies will be neededto maintaindebt sustainability
into the future, andto enable the resourcesset free under the MDRIto be used effectively in
support of poverty reduction," Mr.Kat0 said.




                                                  63

                                                           Annex XI
                    Guyana     -Relationswith            the Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
                                                  (Asof February 6,2006)

The IDBi s currently Guyana's major source of concessionalfinancing, with projects spanning
most sectors. Since 1977, the IDBhas approvedloans amounting to US$970 million.
Outstanding debt stands at US$473million (excluding undisbursedHIPC debt relief), while the
undisbursedportfolio totals US$218 million. IDBdisbursementsfrom ongoing operationsfell to
4.3 percent of GDP and9 percent of public expenditure in2002-03, buthave since risen steadily
andare expectedto reachan averageof around8.5 percentof GDP(15 percent of public
expenditure) in2005-08.
The IDB's GuyanaCountry Strategy for the 2002-05 period was approved inDecember 2002.
The baseline scenarioenvisions total lendingof US$244 millioninthe areas of economic policy
reformandthe enhancement of productive infrastructure; governanceandpublic sector
efficiency; andsocial programs. The IDB's pipeline for 2006 contains projects to support citizen
security, justice, competitiveness, bridge rehabilitation, solid waste managementand agricultural
diversification, for a total of US$103 million.

                         Summary Statement of Active Loans, January 31,2006
                                         (Amounts inmillionsof U.S. dollars)

Loanor         Approval                                                             Amount            ~




Credit No.        Year        Purpose                                              Approved  Undisbursed

999lSF              1997      Bridges RehabilitationLoan                               41.0         12.3
1021lSF             1998      UrbanDevelopmentProgram                                  20.0          5.6
1042/SF             1999      Air TransportationReform                                  9.8          0.2
1044lSF             1999      Low Income Settlements                                   27.0          6.5
1047lSF             1999      GeorgetownI1Water Supply& Sewerage                       27.0         23.7
1085lSF            2001       Social ImpactAmelioration Program411                     20.0         12.9
1094lSF            2001       Mahaica-Rosignolroad                                     33.0          4.2
1103lSF            2002       UnservedAreas Electrification Program                    27.4         21.1
1107lSF            2002       BasicEducation, Access andManagementSupport Program       30.0        18.7
1120lSF            2002       BasicNutritionProgram                                     5.0          3.9
1487lSF            2003       PEF GeorgetownSolid WasteManagementProgram                 1.5         0.4
1516lSF            2003       Social StatisticsandPolicy Analysis                       3.5          3.1
1541lSF            2004       PEF:Health SectorProgram                                  0.5          0.1
15441SF            2004       PEF HealthSectorProgram                                    1.o         0.7
1548lSF            2004       HealthSector Program                                     21.5         21.3
1550-5llSF         2004       Fiscaland FinancialManagementProgram                     28.0         20.4
1554lSF            2004       Moleson Creek-New AmsterdamRoad                           37.3        35.5
1558lSF            2004       Agricultural Support Services                            22.5         20.9
1604lSF            2004       PublicManagementModernizationProgram                      5.0          4.8
1649lSF            2005       PEFfor the Support for CompetitivenessProgram             0.8          0.2
1653lSF            2005       PEF: Citizen SecurityProgram                               1.o          1.o

Total number of credits=21                                                             362.8       2175
 Source: Inter-American DevelopmentBank.




                                                                 64

                                                AnnexXI1

                                       ENVIRONMENTAL     ANALYSIS

 1.    Guyana's successful development depends on the sustainable management of its natural resource
 endowment and the adequate protection of the environment. Accordingly, this Poverty Reduction and
 Public Management Operation (PRPMO) strategically addresses some major environmental issues, as
 they relate to key economic sectors. Consistent with OP 8.60 on Development Policy Lending, the
 PRPMO was prepared with careful consideration of the environment, forests, and other natural resources.
 DuringPRPMOpreparation, IDAexaminedthe likely environmental impacts of the policies supportedby
 PRPMO, involving (i)    environmental management of the Skeldon sugar expansion; (ii)revised Forests
                                                                                            a
 Bill; (iii) financial management reforms involving the Wildlife Division; and (iv) international
           public
 review (by World BankADA or IDB) of large new public investments. For the reasons explained below,
 all of these PRPMO-supported policy changes are expected to be significantly positive from an
 environmental standpoint. Additional policy reforms would be supported under PRPMO-11, involving a
'new MiningBill and a new Wildlife Bill; it is expectedthat these would also be significant and designed
 to be positive interms of net environmental impacts.

 2.    SkeldonSugarExpansion. To modernize Guyana's sugar sector andmake it more internationally
 competitive, a new, larger sugar factory i s planned to replace the existing one at Skeldon on the east
 coast. To supply the new sugar factory, a significant expansion of cane cultivation is planned (some i s
 already underway) in the Skeldon area. The PRSC-I included as a policy condition the bidding for
 construction of the new sugar factory, along with agreement to provide any needed environmental
 mitigation for new land development affecting natural habitats (see the November 20, 2002 PRSC-I
 Program Document, Annex 10. Since then, the Guyana Sugar Corporation (GWSUCO), the parastatal
 enterprise responsible for the Skeldon expansion, has: (i)awarded the construction contract for the sugar
 factory; (ii)prepared an Environmental Impact Assessment (EM) report; and (iii)received an
 Environmental Permitfrom Guyana's EnvironmentalProtection Agency.

 3.    The most significant adverse environmental impact of the Skeldon sugar expansion i s the
 conversion of some 10,400 hectares (ha) of land to sugar cane cultivation. This land comprises about
 5,500 ha of public land leased to GUYSUCO (known specifically as Blocks 1,2,3,4, and 10) and 4,900
 ha of land held by small farmers and cooperatives (known as the Jackson Creek and Moleson Creek
 farmers, the Johannesburg, Babylon, and Leeds Pioneering Land Cooperatives, and the Hunter Rice
 Scheme) who have agreedto convert their lands to sugar cane and sell their production to GWSUCO. In
 terms of vegetative cover, at least 3,000 ha of the GWSUCO-held land is generally intact freshwater
 swamp andnatural forest; the 880 ha comprising Block 1has recently been entirely cleared and planted to
 cane; and the remaining GUYSUCO and small farmerkooperative land is semi-natural savanna land
 which has been drained in the past but is now covered with natural vegetation at different stages of
 succession.   As demonstrated by GUYSUCO's maps of available lands for expanding sugar cane
 cultivation, alternative sites of lower environmental sensitivity are not available within an economic
 transport distance of the Skeldon factory. As noted in the EMreport, the freshwater swamp, forest, and
 savanna lands are rich in biodiversity, although ecologically similar lands are still widespread on the
 coastalplainof Guyana. Although the lands to be converted harbor some species of conservation interest,
 such as Jaguars (Puntheru onca), they are not considered to be critical for the global (or national) survival
 of any species.

 4.    As ecological compensation for the loss of natural habitats through expanded cane cultivation,
 GUYSUCO has agreed to the long-term conservation of 7,500 hectares (ha), contained within the
 Halcrow Conservancy (6,000 ha) and Guysuco Conservancy (1,500 ha).               These two conservancies
 comprise state-owned land under GUYSUCO management; in the case of the Halcrow Conservancy,


                                                    65

GUYSUCO's management responsibilities are outlined in a long-term agreement (signed March 2004)
between GUYSUCO andthe National Drainage and IrrigationBoard. Bothconservanciesserve primarily
as water storage areas for nearby sugar cane and other irrigatedcultivation, andboth comprise relatively
natural ecosystems with a mosaic of open water, marsh, freshwater swamp, uplandreef forest, and related
wetland habitats. When adjusted for natural habitat quality, the 7,500 ha within the conservancies are of
greater biodiversity conservation value overall than the (largely drained) landsto be cleared for expanded
cane cultivation. Under GUYSUCO's management, the fundamentally natural character of these areas
will remain, although there might be some change in the proportions of each habitat type due to
(relatively slight) water level changes.       To help ensure effective wildlife conservation at both
conservancies, GUYSUCO will prohibit all hunting and wildlife capture, and will restrict fishing to
traditional, small-scale activities. GWSUCO will enforce these restrictions through: (i)      placement of
signs instrategic locations at the conservancy edges; (ii) of vehicle andpedestrian traffic along the
                                                           control
limitedaccess roads that pass through GUYSUCO-managed lands; and(iii)        the on-the-ground presenceof
at least 8 conservancy rangers.

5.     GUYSUCO is presently carrying out a Rapid BiologicalAssessment (RBA) to obtain baseline data
on the animal and plant life of the two conservancies, which will be useful for future monitoring and
management activities.       The RBA will also serve to increase awareness, within Guyana and
internationally, of the biodiversity significance of these two conservancies. GWSUCO has also carried
out a site selection study of a sanitary landfill which it will establish for the solid waste generated by
construction and operation of its Skeldon facilities.

6.     Another significant environmental issue inherent in large-scale cane cultivation is pest
management. GUYSUCO has produced a detailed Pest Management Plan (PMP) that is already under
implementation. The PMPemphasizesintegrated pest management, careful selection of compounds, and
safe pesticide use and storage.      In addition to following the PMP in their own cane cultivation,
GWSUCO provides free technical assistanceinpest management to the adjacent small farmers who are,
or will be, producingcane for the new Skeldon factory.

7.     As a Board prior action for the proposed PRPMO, the Government (through GUYSUCO) has
adopted and undertaken implementation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the Skeldon
sugar factory andassociatedcanefield expansion, including effective wildlife conservation at the Halcrow
and Guysuco conservancies. The EMP encompasses the above-mentioned conservancy management
practices, the PMP, and other environmental management activities at Skeldon. IDA has carefully
reviewed the EMP and considers it to be of good technical quality. During PRPMO preparation,
GUYSUCO's institutional capacity and commitment to implement the EMP was assessed by IDA and
found to be more than adequate.

8.     Forestry. The development anduse of Guyana's important forestry resources on a sustainablebasis
remains a key issue in terms of future economic growth, and for exports. However, development of
forestry resources needs to be done on a sustainable basis, with adequate controls to prevent over-
harvesting, minimize environmental damage, and recognize the land claims of indigenous peoples.
Existing legislation (from 1953) does not adequately ensure that these objectives are met, and does not
provide the private sector with a clear regulatory environment. The PRPMO supports the development of
new legislationcovering this sector, which has been drafted with technical assistance from DFIDand also
reflects detailed technical comments from IDA. Specifically, a Board prior action for the PRPMO i s the
submission to Parliament of a revised Forests Bill that improves the legal basis for sustainable and
environmentally-sound managementof Guyana's forests. It i s expected that the new law will provide for
improved environmental and forestry controls, better transparency and public involvement, reduced
opportunities for corruption, new forest conservation concessions and special protected areas, and greater
protection for Amerindian rights and opportunities for community-based forestry on Amerindian lands.


                                                      66

The satisfactory implementation of the Forests Bill, including updating the Code of Practice, i s a policy
action by the Government for PRPMO 11.

9.     IDA has reviewed the draft Forests Bill which includes a variety of substantive changes, to help
ensure that the new law would be environmentally friendly and a significant improvement over the
presentsituation, makingclear provisionsfor the rightsof Amerindian indigenous communities.

10. Mining. Bauxite, gold and diamonds have historically been an important part of Guyana's
economy and source of export earnings. Public intervention in the bauxite sector i s slowly being wound
down, as the Government either closes or sells unprofitable mines. Output of gold and diamonds have
declined over time, as existing resources are exhausted. The Government seeks to improve the regulatory
environment for the miningsector, covering issues such as environmental impact, taxation and the rights
of Amerindian communities. This includes strengthening the regulatory framework and capacity to
control ongoing environmentally damaging mining activities, (such as the often destructive informal
placer mining for gold and diamonds). The Government also has noted its intent to ensure that new,
large-scale mining by international companies (such as the IFC-supported Guyana Goldfields hard-rock
gold mine) i s carried out using the modern technologies and practices neededto minimize and mitigate
adverse environmental impacts.

11. With PHRD Grant support, the Government is undertaking a Strategic Environmental Assessment
(SEA) of the mining sector in Guyana. The detailed terms of reference for the SEA (copy in PRPMO
files) have been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory, as have the biddingdocuments. The SEA will
assess the full range of mining-related environmental issues in Guyana (through a process that includes
extensive public consultations), andevaluate the policy options andrecommended actions for addressing
them. It i s expected to recommend appropriate Government policies `to address a broad range of
environmental and related social problems associated with ongoing and likely future miningactivities in
Guyana, including those that should be incorporated within the new Mining Bill. Submission to
Parliament of the new MiningBill, based on technical and stakeholder input provided through the SEA
and acceptableto IDA, is a policy actionby the Government for PRPMO11.

12. Wildlife. Guyana's wildlife is diverse and still abundant in many areas, owing to the large
remaining areas of forests and other natural habitats. Subsistence hunting of many wild animal species
remains important to the livelihoods of poor rural people, especially indigenous populations in the
hinterland. Abundant wildlife populations form the foundation of Guyana's eco-tourism industry, which
has considerable growth potential within the tourism sector. At the same time, there is considerable
concern that many Guyanese wild animal species are being depleted, particularly those which are
exported internationally (both legally and illegally).

13.    The proposed PRPMO is expected to improve Governmental policy involving Guyana's wildlife.
As a policy action for the PRPMO, the Wildlife Division is to be transferred from the Office of the
President to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which i s its appropriate institutional home, in
accordance with the Environmental Protection Act of 1996. This would substantially increase the
transparency of financial transactions and administrative actions taken by the Wildlife Division,
according to the 2003 Auditor General's report. In the past, revenues obtained by the Office of Wildlife
in the Office of the President were not publicly accounted for; as a PRPMO Board prior action, these
revenues were transferred to the Consolidated Fund(i.e., the national budget). These reforms, carried out
in the context of improving public financial management, will serve to increase the transparency of this
agency's activities, especially related to wildlife utilization and export permits. It i s thus reasonable to
expect that these reforms will also help to reduce the flow of illegal wildlife exports. A policy action for
the PRPMO-I1 will be the submission to Parliament of an updated Wildlife Bill that should improve the
legalbasisfor protection and sustainable managementof Guyana's wildlife.


                                                      67

14.    Large Public Investments. The proposed PRPMO requires that all future projects of over
US$10million (net of grants), excluding those financed by multilateral financial institutions, have their
detailed feasibility studies reviewed by the World Bank or the IDB in terms of their environmental, as
well as economic and financial, viability. This measure is largely intendedto ensure that fungible donor
funds are spent on high-priority investmentsfrom a poverty reduction standpoint. Nonetheless,it is also
important from an environmental standpoint, as it helps to ensure adequate environmental review
(including analysis of alternatives and careful consideration of mitigation measures) for large-scale,
environmentally-sensitivefuture projects.

15.    Land Administration. In the course of PRPMO preparation, IDA reviewed the environmental
implications of the ongoingprogramof the GuyanaLandsandSurveysCommission(GLSC) to regularize
many rural and urban landholdings, and to convert some leasehold properties to freehold (full private
title) status. Although changes in landadministration(cadastre, titling, and registry) activities can have a
wide rangeof environmentalimplications (both positive andnegative), these GLSC activities appear to be
rather benignfrom an environmental standpoint. GLSC has careful consultationproceduresinplace with
the EPA, Forestry Commission, National Parks Commission, Mining Commission, Ministry of
Amerindian Affairs, and National Trust to prevent the issuingof agricultural leases or freehold titles (to
individuals or corporations) on lands not suited for agricultural or urban uses; these include lands within
existing and officially proposed protected areas, State Forests, areas with Amerindian populations, or
significant historical sites. Inaddition to these formal consultationprocedures, GLSC staff ineach of the
ten Regionsvisit eachparcelto verify the absenceof potential conflicts, such as Amerindian landclaims.

16.    It is worth noting that, because freehold lands typically have fewer use restrictions than leased
lands, the conversion of leaseholdto freehold properties might encourage urban expansion onto some
existing agricultural lands (where driven by market forces). Guyanadoes not have special rules for land
administration in areas highly prone to natural hazards, because the risks of flooding (the main natural
hazardin the country) are perceivedto be relatively uniform across the entire coastalplain (where about
90 percent of the population lives). However, the GLSC is in the processof preparingofficial LandUse
Plans, one Region at a time. Thus far, the LandUsePlanfor Region VI has been approvedby Cabinet,
while the one for Region IX is about 80 percent complete. GLSC consults widely with stakeholders
(including environmentalNGOs) before eachregional LandUsePlani s finalized.




                                                     68

                                                      ANNEXXlII
                       INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION AND
                                   INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND

                                                       GUYANA

                       Joint World BanWIMF Debt Sustainability Analysis200537

                   Preparedby the staffs of the International Development Association
                                       andthe International MonetaryFund

             Approved by Caroline Anstey, Ernest0May, andVikramNehru (IDA), and
                                  Christopher Towe andJuha Kiihkonen (IMF)

                                                    January 18,2006

1.       Guyana's risk of debt distressafter the implementation of the MultilateralDebt
Relief Initiative (MDRI) is moderate since the initiative would significantly reduceitslevel
of indebtedness.Underthe baseline scenario, which assumes no delivery of MDRIdebtrelief,
the NPV of external debt-to-revenueratio i s projectedto rise from 195percent in2004 to
238 percentin2007. This would bejust under the 250 percentthreshold andleave only a small
buffer against shocks.389 With MDRI-which would provide Guyana with approximately
                               39
US$237 million indebt relief-the              NPV of external debt-to-revenue ratiois projectedto peak at
about 205 percentin2011,significantly below its indicative debt burdenthreshold of 250
percent.40Guyana's external debt service burdenis projectedto remainlow over the medium
term, below 17percentof revenuesand7 percent of exports throughout the projection period in
the baseline, andlower after the implementation of MDRI.Domestic debt i s projectedto
gradually decline over the mediumterm, from 28 percent of GDPin2004 to below 14percent in
2010, andremain low over the entire projection period.
                                                      Background

2.        Guyana's debt-to-GDP ratio increasedalmost without interruptionthroughout the
socialistperiod that lasteduntilthe late 1980s (Figure l).41                     As financing constraintsbecame
more severe, Guyanadefaulted on its external debt in 1982 and startedto accumulate arrears. In
1985, the IMFdeclaredGuyana ineligible for IMFsupport, andthe World Bank followed suit in


37This i s the first debt sustainability analysis for Guyana prepared under the joint World BanknMF Debt Sustainability
Framework for Low Income Countries. Further details on the macroeconomic program for 2006-10 can be found in the
accompanyingstaffreport on theFifth Reviewof Guyana's PRGFarrangement.

38All debt burdenindicatorsassume full deliveryof EnhancedHIPC assistanceunless statedotherwise.

39The World Ban!ds Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) ratesGuyana as a mediumperformer.Underthe joint
World BanWIMFdebt sustainability framework, the corresponding thresholds are 40 percent for the NPV of debt-to-GDPratio,
150 percent for the NPV of debt-to-exports ratio, 250 percent for the NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio, 20 percent for the debt
service-to-exports ratio, and 30 percent for the debt service-to-revenue ratio (OperationalFramework for Debt Sustainability
AssessmentsinLow-IncomeCountries-Further Considerations, SM/05/109,3/29/05).

40The estimatefor MDRI relief refers to cumulative debt service savings resultingfrom the implementationof the initiative for
the IMFonJanuary 1,2006 and for the World Bank on July 1, 2006. These estimatesare preliminary.
41Unless otherwisestated,"debt" in the remainder of this noterefers to external public andpublicly guaranteeddebt.



                                                              69

March 1986. B y 1988, Guyana's external public and public guaranteed(PPG) debt hadreached
about US$1.02 billion (246 percentof GDP) innominal terms.

3.        In1989,the governmentlaunchedanEconomicRecoveryProgram, which marked
a shiftfrom a socialist to a market-orientedregime. After floatingthe currency, debt peaked
at 562 percent of GDPand debt service payments equaled46 percent of export earnings.

                                 Figure 1. Guyana: Evolution of ExternalDebt and GDP Growth


                                                                                                          OHIPCDP                         T
        600                                                                            PCII: Toronto     PCN: 3ples             EHIPCcp
                                                                                                                  OHIPC cp   PCVIAd-hoc       lo


                                                                                 XIC

        500




        400




        300




        m



         100




           n


    The left axis refersto externalPPGDebt to GDP and the rightaxis to GDP Growth. Valuesare in percent.
    PCrefersto ParisClubdebtueament,OHIF`C to OriginalHIPCInitiative,EHIPCtoEnkAncedHIPC Initiative,DP to decisionpointandCPto completionpoint
    Source: WDIand IMF StaffEstimates.



4.        Beginningin 1989, Guyana approached the Paris Club on six occasionsto
restructureits official external debt. With the exception of the 1989rescheduling, all Paris
Club debt treatmentswere concessionalandthe terms improvedsuccessively.Following
Guyana's first two Paris Club agreements, severalbilateral creditors wrote-off about
US$249 million of ODA debt between 1990 and 1996.Duringthe same period, Guyanabought
back about US$93 million of commercial debt. In 1998, it cleared US$56million of arrears owed
to commercial creditors under the External PaymentsDeposits Scheme.42

5.         Guyana reachedthe Completion Point under the OriginalHIPC Initiative inMay
1999and under the Enhanced HIPC Completion Point inDecember 2003. As aresult, the
country receivedHIPC debt relief totalingUS$585 million inNPV terms.




42This scheme was created in 1978 in order to assist Guyanain meetingits external liabilities.



                                                                                70

 The Evolution of Debt since E-
      HIPCCompletionPoint                                   Figure 2: Completion Pointversus Joint WBlWIFDSA
                                                                            (NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio)
6.        Guyana reached
completionpoint under the                           I
                                                -I"




Enhanced HIPCInitiative in
December 2003. As a result of the
ensuingdebt relief, the NPV of
debt-to-revenue ratio declined to
214 percent at end-2003 but was
projectedto increaseinthe
medium term to a peak of almost
250 percentin2007, anddecline                            ---     2 Updatingrevenues, debtreliefanddiscountrate

thereafter.43                                                    3 Updatingnewborrowing



                                                    2003     2005    2007     2009    2011     2013   2015     2017  2019   2021
7.        Higher revenues and
additional debt relief have ledto an improvementinthe DSA indicators relative to
completionpointprojections (Table 1).For 2004, the NPV of debt-to-revenueratio was at 195
percent, about 30 percentagepoints below the completion point projection of 224 percent. Key
factors underlyingthis improvement are stronger-than-expectedcentral governmentrevenueand
additional debt relief from non-ParisClub creditors, partially offset by the effect of the
depreciation of the U.S. dollar against                       Table 1. Guyana: Evolution of NPV ofDebt-to-Revenue Ratio:

major currencies since the completion                                   FromHIPC Completion Point to end-2004 11

point                                                 NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio (as projected at Completion Point) W 31  224.0

8.        The revisions to the debt                   Total changeinratio 3/                                                -29.1

profile since completionpoint are                        1. Due to changesinthe parameters                                  10.9
                                                               Ofwhich: due to changesinthe discount rates                  -0.5
illustratedinFigure 2. Line 1shows                             Ofwhich: due to changes inthe exchangerates                  11.4

the profileprojected at completion point                 2. Due to unanticipatednewborrowing                                 -1.0
                                                               Ofwhich: due to higher thanexpecteddisbursements              -0.1
andline 2 showsthe effect of revisions                         Ofwhich: due to lower concessionaliiyof loans                 -0.8

to the revenuepath, additional debt                      3. Due to unanticipatedchangeinrevenues                            -18.4

relief, andthe change inthe discount                     4. Otherfactors41                                                  -20.6
                                                      Actual NPV ofdebt-to- revenue ratio                                   194.9
rate. However, higherprojectednew
borrowing largely offsets this decline in              sp:z    ~    ~  f   ~  ~   ~   e   ~   ~   f  ~  u fulln
                                                                                                        of      d  e r
the NPV of debt to revenueratio (line                 of HIPCassistme inpercent.
3) while the depreciation of the                       21 SeeGuyana: EnhancedHIPC Debt Initiative: CompletionPoint
                                                      DocumentfIDAIR2003-0226).
U.S. dollar againstmajor currencies                    31Changes are expressed inpercentagepoints.

pushes the debt profile still higher (line             4/Other factorscaptureimplementationof actualdebt relief agreements.

4)-




43 See .'Guyana: Enhanced HIPC Initiative: Completion Point Document," December,          2003, IDAIR2003-0226.

44 A depreciation of theU.S. dollar against other currencies increases the U.S. dollar value of debt denominated in these
currencies.




                                                              71

                                             Debt Sustainability Analysis 45

9.       The macroeconomic framework assumes a modest recoveryineconomic activity
over the mediumand longterm (Box 1).Guyanahasbeen affected inrecent yearsby a number
of adverse shocks, most recently the flood, but has also suffered from deeply-rooted obstacles to
growth, including apoor investment climate, deficient infrastructure, andlack of security. As a
result, growth averagedonly 0.6 percent per annumover the past five years. Over the medium
term, it is expectedthat growth will recover, as the effects of the negative shocks dissipate, and
economic activity is supportedby ongoing reformefforts. These include enhancingthe
investment climate, by inter alia, strengtheninggovernanceandtransparency, andfocusing the
public investment programon improvinginfrastructure andincreasing access to basic social
services. A highinvestment rate is assumedinthe long-run, leading to growthof about 2.5
percent. Key risks to the macroeconomicframework arise from political uncertainty related to
the 2006-elections, a slowdown inthe paceof structural reforms, andan adverseexternal
environment, includingfurther increasesinworld oil prices.

10.      Different debt burden indicators provide divergent signals regarding Guyana's debt
sustainability (Figure Al). The NPV of debt-to-exports ratio remainscomfortably below its
threshold under bothbaselineand stress test scenarios, andthe debt service indicators are also
well below their respectivethresholds. However, the NPV of debt-to-GDP




45The debt measure used in the analysis i s the net present value (NPV) of public and publicly guaranteed external debt. Data on
private external debt i s not available. For the NPV calculation, a 5 percent discount rate i s used and debt service payments are
converted to U.S. dollars using WE0 exchange rate projections consistent with requirementsof the joint World BanknMF Low-
Income CountriesDebt Sustainability Framework.



                                                               72

                  Box 1.Guyana: MacroeconomicAssumptionsUnderlying
                                the Debt Sustainability Analysis

RealGDPgrowth is projectedto averageabout 2.5 percentover 2005-25. This i s roughly in
line with the historical 10-yearaverageof 2.3 percent, but represents an acceleration ingrowth
comparedto the most recentfive-year period (2000-04), when growth averagedonly
0.6 percent:
    Growth inrecent years has beenweak on account of adifficult security situation and
    political tensions; failedprivatizations; andthe winding down of bauxite andgold
    production; but also becauseof deeper-rootedissues such as poor investment climate, lack
    of access to private sector credit, andpoor infrastructure. In2005, the economy i s expected
    to contract by almost 3 percentbecauseof the flood andthe closure of a large gold mine.
    Over the medium term, severalof these factors are expectedto recede. Sugar andrice
    production, for example, were severely affectedby the flood in2005 but are projectedto
    rebound in2006-07, while bauxite andgoldproduction will benefit over the medium term
    from significant foreign investmentscurrently under way. The large expansion inpublic
    sector investment andimprovements inthe investment climate will also boost the
    economy.
    Over the long run,areal growthrate of about 2.5 percenti s consistent with standard
    growth accounting framework, i.e., labor force growth of about 0.5 percent per annum,
    total factor productivitygrowth of about 1percentper annum, and a gross domestic
    investment rate of about 26 percent of GDP, inline with the historical average for the past
    10 years.
Inflationis projectedto fall from 4.7 percent in2004 to 3 percentby 2009 and remain at this
levelthereafter. The pass-throughof highworld fuel prices to consumers, however, would
increaseinflation temporarily to 7 percent in2005-06. The realexchangerate relative to the
U.S. dollar i s expectedto remain broadly unchanged, inline with the relative stability observed
over the past five years.
Export growth in2005-10 i s projectedto averageabout 2 percent, below the 3 percent
average of the past 10years, reflecting the effects of the closure of alarge gold mine and the
plannedreduction inEUsugar prices by about 36 percentfrom 2008 to 2010. Thereafter,
overall export growth is expectedto accelerateto 5 percent over 2011-25, broadly inline with
nominal GDPgrowth.
The external current account deficit (excluding interest payments) is expectedto increase
from an averageof 8 percent interms of GDPinthe past five years to an average of
approximately 14percentin2005-10, exceedingthe historical 10-yearaverage of about
10percent significantly. This primarilyreflects the capital imports related to the Skeldon sugar
modernization project andhighoil prices (oil imports increasedfrom 17 percent of GDP in
2003 to 27 percent in 2005). After the completion of the Skeldon project, the non-interest
current account deficit would decline again, averaging approximately 8 percent of GDP in
2011-25.




                                                 73

ratio exceedsthe relevant thresholdunderthe baselineprojections by a large margin, andthe
NPV of debt-to-revenueratio is onlyjust below its threshold at its peak in2007.

11.      Inthe staff's view, however,the NPVofdebt-to-revenueratiois the most
informative debt burdenindicatorfor assessingGuyana's debt sustainability                            .Guyana
received debt relief under the HIPCInitiativeon the basis of its NPV of debt-to-revenueratio.
Thefiscal window was introducedintothe HIPC Initiative inrecognitionofthe fact that the
NPVof debt-to-exports ratiois likely to understatethe debt burdenof asmallopeneconomy.
The debt-to-export ratiois not informative inthe case of Guyana's as its export-to-GDP ratio
averagedalmost 100percentbetween2000 and2004,but most of theseearnings are neededto
finance Guyana's imports, including inputsfor Guyana's very fuel- andcapital-intensive export
industries, and are therefore not available to service Guyana's debt. Guyana's NPV of debt-to-
GDPratio, incontrast, understatesthe country's debt servicing capacity, becausethe
government's strong revenueeffort tends to offset the small size of the economy, andthis
indicator couldbe somewhatunreliable given the uncertainty that surroundsthe GDP

12.      Without the MDRI,Guyana's debt sustainability outlook would be very vulnerable
to a variety of shocks. Since Guyana's NPV of debt-to-revenueratio under the baselinescenario
i s projectedto increaseto 238 percent in 2007,it leaves littlebuffer against shocks. Indeed, the
threshold is breachedunder all stress tests andthe alternative scenario which assumes public
sector borrowing on less favorable terms (Table A2).

13.      Country-specific alternative scenariosshow that Guyana's debt sustainability
outlook is vulnerable evento modestshocks. Shouldthe revenue-to-GDP ratio remainover the
medium term at its averagelevelover 2000-04, the NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio would breach
the indicative threshold by a modest marginfor a sustainedperiod (Figure 3). Likewise, should
real GDPgrow over the mediumterm at the average growth rate over 2000-04, Le., 0.6 percent,
thenthe NPV of debt-to-revenueratio would alsobreachthe indicative threshold. An exchange
rate depreciation of 10percentin2006 would lead to a similar outcome.

14.      Nevertheless,all debt serviceindicators remainwell below their respective
thresholdsunder the stress test and inthe alternative scenarios,indicating that debt service
paymentsare manageable.The debt service-to-revenueratio remains low throughout the
projectionhorizon, averaging about 13 percent over 2005-25 (without MDRIrelief) comparedto
acorresponding threshold of 30 percent.




46 Guyana's centralgovernment revenue-to-GDPratio averaged about 32 percent over 2000-04, which compares to an average
ratio of 15 percent for PRGF-eligible countries, and 27.5 percent for high-income countries (see Appendix Table 4 in The
MacroeconomicChallengesof Scaling-UpAid to Low-IncomeCountries, mimeo).



                                                           74

     figure 3: NPVof debt-to-revenue ratio Country-
                                             -                    Figure 4: NPVof debt-to-revenue ratio After
                                                                                                            -
     specific alternative scenarios, before MDRI                  MDRIdebt relief
    270                                                          260
                      ..--
                           -I
    250 -                                                        240  -             Baseline

    240 -                                                        230 -
    230 -
    220 -                                                        220 -

                                                                 210 -
    210 -

    200 -                                                        200 -

    190 -                                                         190 -

    180 -  2000-04 avemge       at 2000-04average                 180 -

                                                                 170
                                                                       11111111111
15.      Debt relief to be providedunder the MDRIby the Fundand the World Bankwould
substantially lower Guyana's risk of debt distress. Under the initiative, the Fundwould cancel
all debt incurredbefore end-2004 that remainsoutstanding as of January 1,2006, andthe World
Bankwouldcancelall debt incurredbefore end-2003 that remainsoutstanding as of July 1,2006.
This wouldimply debt relief of about US$237 millionfor Guyana, inaddition to the debt relief
to beprovided under the EnhancedHIPC Initiative. As a result, the NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio
would drop by about 35 percentagepoints over the mediumterm relative to the baseline (Figure
4). Debt service savings are expectedto averagealmost US$10 millionper annumover 2006-10,
equivalent to about 1percent of GDP.

16.      Nevertheless, even after MDRI, Guyana's debt sustainability outlook would remain
vulnerable to exogenousshocks. The application of standardizedalternative scenariosand
stress tests to the scenario after MDRIshows that a large depreciation or public sectorborrowing
on lessfavorable terms would still lead to abreachof the indicative threshold (Table A4).47
However, the other standardizedstress tests do not cause abreachof the threshold, illustrating
the considerablereduction inGuyana's vulnerability to shocks relative to the baseline scenario
(before MDRI).48

                                      Public Debt Sustainability Analysis

17.      Guyana's public debt (including domestic debt) is expected to be gradually reduced
over the medium term under the baseline scenario. Strong fiscal adjustment-supported by
the maintenanceof ahighrevenueeffort, containing growth inwage andother current spending,
and lower capital spendingthrough better prioritization-are                       projected to shift the primaryfiscal
balancefrom a deficit of 8.9 percent of GDP in2005 to a primary surplus of 1percent of GDP in
2010 (Table A5).49As external disbursementsare expectedto continue at relatively highrate and



47The tests were conductedconsideringa one-time 30 percentnominaldepreciationto the baselinein 2006.
48The stress test representinga combinationof the standardizedstress tests still leadsto a breachof the threshold, but by a much
more modest marginthanunder the baselinewithout MDRI.
4yThe largeprimarydeficit in2005 also reflects extraordinaryinvestmentin sugar modernization.


                                                             75

more than cover the fiscal financing needs, domestic debt i s projectedto decline from about 28
percentof GDPin2004 to below 14percentof GDP by 2010.50

18.      The evolution of publicdebt remains robust across broadcategories of boundtests.
However, the large proportion of external debt makes the debt projection extremely vulnerable to
an exchangerate depreciation. Moreover, low growth could reversethe debt trajectory leading to
an increaseof 7 percentagepoints inthe NPV of debt-to-GDP ratiobetween 2005 and2015
rather thanto a decline of about 33 percentagepoints as projectedunder the baselinescenario
(Table A6).51

19.      The delivery of debt relief under the MDRIwould further reduce the public debt
burden. With the MDRI, NPV of public debt would be about 10percentagepoints of GDP
lower by 2010comparedto the baselinescenario (Table A7). While the fiscal programenvisages
that resourcesprovidedby the MDRIwould be usedonpoverty-reduction spending (therefore
the public sector deficit would be unchangedafter MDRIrelative to the baseline scenario), the
reduction inexternal debt indicators remainssignificant.

                                                      Conclusion

20.      The analysis above suggests that Guyana should be considered to be at moderate
riskof debt distressafter the implementationofthe MDRI.However, even afterMDRI,
Guyanaremains vulnerable to exogenousshocks, andprudent debt managementanddonor
support on highly concessionalterms will be crucial. Moreover, debt sustainability will also
require acontinued emphasison containing new borrowing, better prioritizingpublic sector
investment, andfostering growthby improvingthe investment climate.




so Domestic debt increased since 2003 reflecting bonds issued to replace the nonperforming loans of a public sector bank
(privatizedin 2003) and changingof handsof some externalbondsto local investorsin2004.
                                                                                             ,
51Underthe stresstest, real GDP would contract by 0.9 percentin 2006 and2007.


                                                            76

-3
e   4 $1
     Y      "N' 9-0-9 N9 N:
                      0 9   j

       Table A2. Guyana: SensitivityAnalysesfor Key indicatorsof Public and Publicly GuaranteedExternalDebt, Baseline,Without MDRI, 2(x)5-25
                                                                                 (in percent)

                                                                                                     Est.                            Projections
                                                                                                    2005      2006    2007      2008     2009    2010  2015    2025

                                                                          NPV of debtto-GDP ratio
Bareline                                                                                               75       80      81         81       82    81     n       62
A. AlternativeScenarios
AI. Key variables aI theirhistoricalaveragesin 2006-2511                                               75       76      76         76       77    77     n      76
A2. New publicm o r loans on less favorableterms in2006-25 2l                                          75       83      86         88       90     91    91      91
B. &mad Tests
B1. RealGDPgrowl$ a1historicalaverageminusone standarddeviationin2006-07                               75       84      90         89       90     89    81      69
B2. Exportvalue growthat historicalaverageminus onestandarddeviationin2006-07 3/                       75       84      Y2         92       92     92    83      67
83. US dollarGDPdeflaloraI historicalaverageminus onestandarddeviationin 2006-07                       75       R4      Yo         89       90     89    ni      69
B4.Net nondebtcreatingflowsat historicalaverageminusonestandarddeviationin2006-074/                    75       85      89         89       89     89    80      66
8.5. Combinationof BI-B4usingone-halfstanduddeviationshuck                                             75       90      106       105      105    105    95      77
B6.One-time30percentnominaldepreciationrelativeto the baselinein200651                                 75      114      116       115      116    116   104      89

                                                                         NPV of debt-twxpurtsratio
Baseline                                                                                               x2       88      89         91       93     97    89      76
A. AlternaliveScenarios
AI. Key variables Ltheir historicalaveragesin2MM25 I1                                                  82       83      83         85       88     Y2    89      93
AZ. New publicsenorloanson less favorableterms in2006-25 21                                            82       90      95         Y8      103    109   111     Ill
B. BoundTests
BI. RealGDPgrowth aI historicalaverageminusone standud deviationin2oo6-07                              82       88       89        91       93     91    89      76
BZ. Exponvalue growthaI historicalaverageminusone standarddeviationin2006-07 31                        82      100      122        124     127    131   122      99
83. US.dollarGDPdeflatoraI historicalaverageminus one standarddeviationin2 W 7                         82       88       89        91        93    97    89      76
B4.Netnondebrmatingflows aI historicalaverageminus onestandarddeviationin2006-074/                     82       93       98        YY      102    106    98      SO
B5. Combinationof BI-B4usingone-half standarddeviationshocks                                           82       99      116        118     121    125   116      93
B6.0ne-timc 30percentnominaldepreciationrelativeto the baselinein2006 5/                               82       88       89        91        93    97    89      76

                                                                        NPVof debt-to-revenueratio
Baseline                                                                                             217       234      238       233      234    233   212     183
A. Allemalive Scenarim
AI. Key variables aI theirhistoricalnveragesin 2006-25 I/                                            217       221      221       218      222    221   211     224
AZ. New publicwyfor loanson lessfavorable termsin 2006-25 2/                                         217       242      252       252      259    262   263     266
n.~oundTW
Bt. RealGDPgrowthat historicalaverageminusone standarddeviationin 2006-07                            217       246      262        257     258    257   234     201
82. EXWRvalue rmwthathistoricalaveraxe minusone standarddeviationin2006-07 31                        217       245      270        264     264    263   241     197
B3.U.S.dollarGDPdefla~oraI historicalaverageminus one standarddeviationin2006-07                     217       244      262        257     258    257   234     201
B4.Netnon-debtw i n gflowsaI historicalaverageminus one standarddeviationin200647 41                 217       248      261        255     256    255   232     193
B5. Combinationof B1-B4usingone-half standard deviationshucks                                        217       264      3w         302     302    301   215     224
B6.Oneiime 30percentnominaldepreciationrelativeto the baseline in20065/                              217       333      338        331     333    332   302     2M)

                                                                              Dewservicemtio
Baseline                                                                                                 3       4        4          4        4     5     6       5
A. AlternativeSFenarios
AI. Key variables aI their historicalaveragesin2006-25 I/                                                3       4        4          5        4     5     I       6
A2 New publicm o r loansonlessworable trims in2006-252/                                                  3       4        4          5        5     5     7       7
B. BoundTests
B1. Red GDPgmwthat historicalaverageminusone standarddeviation in 2 W 0 7                                3       4        4          4        4     5     6       5
B2.Exportvaluegrowthat historicalaverageminusonestandarddeviation in 2006-07 31                          3       4         5         6        5     6     8       7
B3. U.S. dollarGDPdeflatorat historicalaverageminus one standarddeviationin 2006-M                       3       4        4          4        4     5     6       5
B4.Netnondebtmating flows aI historicalaverageminusonestandarddeviationin2006-074/                       3       4        4          5        4     5     7       5
B5. Combinationof BI-B4usingone-halfstandarddeviationshocks                                              1       4         5         5        5     5     8       6
B6.One-tinie30percent nominaldepreciationrelativelo the baselinein2006 51                                3       4        4          4        4     5     6       5

                                                                        Debtservice-to-revenue rario
Baseline                                                                                                 9      11       11         12       11    I 1   15      12
A. AlternativeScenarios
AI. Key variables aI their historicalaveragesin 2006-25 11                                               9      I1       I 1        12       11    12    16       14
A2. Newpublicsectorloanson lessfavorabletermsin2006-25 21                                                9      I1       11         12       12    12    16       16
B. &und Tests
B1.RealGDPgrowth at historicalaverageminusone standarddeviationin 2006-07                                9      11       12         13       I2    12    17       13
BZ. Eapmvalue growthat historicalaverageminusone standarddeviationin2006-073/                            9      11       11         12       11    12    16       13
B3. USdollarGDPdeflatorat historicalaverageminusone standarddeviationin 2ooh-07                          9      11       I 2        13       12    12    17       13
B4. Net nondebtmating flows aI historicalaverage minusone standarddeviationio 2 W 7 4/                   9      11       !I         12       11    I 2   16       13
B5. Combinationof B1-84usingone-half standarddeviationshoclts                                            Y      II       12         14       13    13    in       15
B6.One-time 30percent nominaldepncidon relativeto the baselinein200651                                   9      15       15         16       15    16    21       17

Memorandumitem:
Grantelementassumedonresidunifinancing (Le.. financing requiredabove baseline) 6/                       51      51       51         51       51    51    51      51

 Source. Staffprojectionsandsimulations.
 11Vdablcs includerealGDPgrowth, growth of GDPdeflzatur(in US. dollar terms). non-interestcurrentaccountin percentof GDP. and noniiebr creatingflows.
 21Assumcs thatthe interest me on new bnmowingis by 2 percentagepointshigherthm in the baseline., white g m and maturityperiudsare the same as in the baseline.
 31Exponsvalues are assumedto remain pmanently al the lowerlevel, but the currentaccount as a shareof GDPis assumedto returnto itsbaseline levelafter the
shuck (implicitly assumingan offsettingadjawnentinimportlevels).
 4/ Includesofficial andprivatetransfers and FDI.
 5/ k p m i d o nis definedas prcentdge declineinddkflWd! currency rat%,suchthat it never exceeds 100percent
 61Applies 10 all stress scenariosexcept for A2 (less favorablefinancing) in whichthe terms on all new financingare z specifiedin foanae 2




                                                                                             78

p!

13




m
R
0

                   Table A4. Guyana: SensitivityAnalysesfor Key Indicatorsof PublicandPublicly GuaranteedExternalDebt, MDRIScenario, 2005-25
                                                                                           (Inpercent)


                                                                                                           Est                                   Proiections
                                                                                                          2W5          2006      2Mn        2W8       2039        2010  2015   2025


                                                                                  NPV of debt-to-GDPratio
Ba.llne                                                                                                      75          65       67           68         70       71     66    MI

A. Altemtive Scenarios
AI. Key VKiahlcr at h i r historicdl averages m2 W 2 5 11                                                    75          61       62           M          66       67     68    76
AZ. New public sector I- on lessiavavorablelamin2 W 2 5 21                                                   75          68       72           75         79       81     84     88

B. BoundTsfs
B1. Rcal GDPgrowthat histolical averageminusomstandarddeviationin200607                                      75          68       74           75         77       78     73    66
BZ. Exponvalue gmwb81tustorical avenge minusMK stpatnddeviationin200607 31                                   75          69       79           79         81       81     16    65
83. U.S.dollarGDPdeflrwr at historicalawago mirmr MK standarddeviationin200607                               75          68       74           75         17       78     13    66
84.Netnondcbtrreatim~      flows at historical averagemirmione stanauddevisuonin2006(17 4                    75          70       76           77         79       79     14     M
B5.CombinationdBI-B4usingow-halfrtandard~iation~ks                                                           75          75       91           Y2         Y4       94     Bs    74
B6.One.tim 30percentmminaldepreeianonrelativeto the blia in2w6 51                                            75          93.      96           97        IW        101    94     85

                                                                                 NPVof debt-twxports ratio
Bayellac                                                                                                     82          71       74           n          80       84     81    73

A. Alternative Scenarios
AI. Key~riablcsat mOir hislaical avengesio 2006-2511                                                         82          67       68           71         76       80     82    93
A2. Newpublicw.%or loansonlessfavorablelamin 2006-2521                                                       82          74       79           84         90       96    103    108

B. BoundTsfs
B1.RcalGDPgrowthPI historicalaverageminusomstandarddevidionin200667                                          82          71       74           77         80        84    81     73
B2. Exponvaluegrowthat historicalaverageminus onestandarddeviation in200607 31                               82          82       104         107        111       116   111     95
B3. U.S.dollarGDPdeflator athistoricalaveragemimrsMK staodarddenationinuxMo7                                 82          71       74           17         80        84    81     73
B4.Ne1&M         ereatingflowsat himrical average mirmboneslanlardhviation inuxMo7 4/                        82          77       84           86         YO       94     90     78
B5.Cor&mationofBI-B4 usingm-halfstdmaimshcxks                                                                82          82       100         103        107       112   1W      90
B 6 . h - t i m30percaumminaldeprrciatiourelativetothe brselinein2w6 51                                      82          71       74           77         80        84    81     73

                                                                                 NPVofdebt-to-revenue ratio
B d n e                                                                                                     217         190       197         IY7        201       203   I92    175

A. AlternativeScenarios
AI. Key-able8     at tlieic historical averages in2006-25 11                                                217         178       182         183        190       193   1%     223
A2. Newpublic sector l o w onlessfavmble terrl~ 2K6-25 21
                                                      in                                                    217         198       212         216        226       232   243    259

B. BuundTsfs
B1 RealGDPgrowba1histmicalavmge minusone slaodarddenationin2CG6-07                                          217         2M)       217         217        222       224   212    193
BZ. Exponralucgrowbat historicatavenge minusmeslandarddeviationin200607 31                                  217         201       230         228        232       234   221    190
B3. US.dollill GDPdeflntn at historical average minuonestandaddeviationin2006(17                            217         198       218         217        222       224   212    193
B4. NetMndeM-ling         flows at historicalaverage minusoneslandarddeviation in uxMo7 41                  217         205       223         221        225       227   215    187
B5.Co&mion        of BI-B4 wingonehalfstandarddeviation shocks                                              217         219       267         2 M        269       271   251    217
B6.One-ume30percentmrmnaldeprrcialionrclativelothe haselk in2006 51                                         217         270       281         280        286       289   213    249

                                                                                       Debt service ratio
Bardine                                                                                                       3           3          3          3          3         3     6      4

A. AlternativeSmLlrlua
AI. Key mnablesa1lhelrhmtoricalavenger in2 W 2 5 I/                                                           3           3          3          3          3         3     6      5
A2. Newpublicsector 1-        onlessfavmble term in-25           21                                           3      .    3          3          4          3         4     6      6

B. BoundTestp
B1, RealGDP growlhat Ystwicalaverage m a som?stanauddevidion in200607                                         3           3          3          3          3         3     6      4
82. Exprl valuegrowtha1hstorlcal avaage ndnvsone standard deviationiouxMo7 31                                 3           3          4          4          4         4     8      6
B3.U.S. dollar GDPdeflator at historicalaverae mirslJonesWard dewiluonm200607                                 3           1          3          3          3         3     6      4
B4. Netnondeb~creatingnowathisuDncalavcragemirmsonestanaud deviauoninuxMo74                                   3           3          3          4          3         4      6      5
B5.Conhioationof B1-84 usingweMfstandarddeviationshocks                                                       3           3          3          4          4         4     7      6
B6.One-tim30pxcmtm ddepreciationrelativeto the basdim in2w6 51                                                3           3          3          3          3         3     6      4

                                                                                 Debtservice-to-revenue ratio
Bssetine                                                                                                      9           8          8          9          8         8    14     11

A. AlternativeScenarios
AI. Keyvariablesat Urir historical avengesin200625 11                                                         9           8          n          9          8         8    15     13
A2. Neupublic mlmlorn VII krr favorable terms m 200625 21                                                     Y           8          X          9          Y         Y    14     15

B. BoundT&
BI.R dGDPgrowth at histmcalavenge minusone standarddeviationm200607                                           Y           8          n         IO          8         9    I 5    12
82. Expvt valuegmwth a1hstoncal averagem u v one s&d               deviaim in 2ooM)7 31                       Y           8          X          9          8         Y    I 5    12
B3. U.S dollar GDPdeflatm at hinOrical a m g e minusone slawbd deviation in2006-07                            9           8          8         10          X         Y    1s     12
B4 Netrmndebtewtmf flow at historicalavoragemmone sm&;lrd deviauouu12 W 7 41                                  9           8          a          9          8         8    I S    11
B5. Combmuonof BI-B4usmgone-balfstandard'kvianoo shrrb                                                        9           8          9         I 1         9        10    17     14
B6.Onc-tm 30 pent mmirmldeleprcclatiinrelative to Urbaselm in200651                                           9          11        11          12         I1        11    20     I S
MemorandumItem:
Gmt elcmm a s c u donresidualiiianang (IS.. fmancmngquircd above baselmc)61                                  51          51        51          51         51        51    51     51
 Some: stan pr0)eett.m and simulations.
 11Vmables mlude real GDPpowlh. growth of GDPdeflaloi(m US. dollar term%).           mn-intere5lcurrent a c ~ o minpace* of GDP, andnonilcbtcreaungflows
                                                                                                                 t
 2/ Assum?%that the inarallilkon new knmwing is by 2 perccnlqe Viints higherthan m the b&sdine.,whlc gam and mtmly                    arc Ihe sam as mthe ba*eimc.
 31ExPKfSvaluesare assunlalU) renninpamarwrUlyat the lower level. hutthe cunmtaccount as a shareofGDPiiasvumcd lo rcinmbim bawlinelcvcl rim the Fhxk
(~mle~tly   m*Suming anoffsettingadjwtmm in impnlevels).
 41lncludcsofficialaodpnvate Urnfenand FDI.
 SI DepwiaUonis Mined 8s percenlagedeclux:indollarflmalcurrencyrdte, suchthal IIneverexceeds 100pacent.
 (v Apphea to all S V ~s~enlmos
                          Y        except Jor A2 (less favorable linamg)m which lhct   m on dl new C&ng:        are 38 spcmed u1iimllOte2




                                                                                                  80

     3
     00




B
e

             TableA6.Guyana: SensitivityAnalysis for Key Indicatorsof PublicDebt, Without MDRI, 2005-25


                                                                                        Estimate                             Projections
                                                                                          2005       2006     2007    2008      2009    2010    2015 2025

                                                            NPVof Debt-to-GDPRatin
Baseline                                                                                      108      109      104      102        98     95     74   47

A. Alternative scenarios

AI. RealGDPgrowthandprimarybalanceareat historicalaverages                                    108       99        86      80        74     69     36   -22
A2.Primarybalanceis unchangedfrom2004                                                          99       91        81      77        73     71      53   24
A3. Permanentlylower GDPgrowth 11                                                             108      110      106      105      103     102      93  106

B. Boundtests

B1. RealGDPgrowthis athistoricalaverageminusone standarddeviationsin2006-2007                 108      117      120      121      120     120     114  114
B2. primary balanceis at historicalavengeminusone standarddeviationsin2006-2007               108      100        90      88        84     82      61   35
B3. CombinationofBI-B2 usingone half standarddeviationshocks                                  108      102        93      90        86     a3      60   31
B4.One-time30percentrealdepreciationin2006                                                    108      143      137      134      129     126     104   70
B5. I O percentof GDPincreaseinother debt-creating flows in2006                               108      118       113     111      107     104      83   55

                                                          NPVofDebt-to-RevenueRatio 21

Baseline                                                                                      230      230      236      233      228     228     1a4  120

A. Alternative scenarios

Al. RealGDPgrowthandprimarybalanceareathistoricalaverages                                     230      207       195     182       171     163     89  -57
A2.Primarybalanceis unchangedfrom2004                                                         211      193       184     176       170     169    132   60
A3. Permanentlylower GDPgrowth 11                                                             230      232       240     241      240     244     229  269

B. Boundtests

B1.RealGDPgrowthis at historicalaverageminusone standarddeviations in2006-2007                230      244       268     274      277     285     280  290
82. Primarybalanceis at historicalaverageminusone standarddeviations in2006-2(x)7             230      211       204     202       197     195    151   90
B3. Combinationof Bl-B2usingone half standarddeviation shocks                                 230      214       208     205       199     197    148   79
B4.One-time30percentrealdepreciationin 2036                                                   230      302       310     307      302     303     258  179
B5. 10percent of GDPincreaseinotherdebt-creating flows in2006                                 230      250       256     254      249     248     205  I40

                                                          Debt Service-to-RevenueRatin21

Baseline                                                                                       12        12        13       13      12      12     13   10

A. Alternative scenarios

Al. RealGDPgrowthandprimarybalanceare at historicalaverage.?                                   12        12         3        2       3       5      5  -14
A2. Primarybalanceis unchangedfrom 2004                                                        12         5         3        4       5       8      9    1
A3. Permanentlyl o wGDPgrowth 11                                                               12        12        13       14      14      14     17   26

B. Boundtests

B1. RealGDPgrowthis at historicalaverageminusone standarddeviations in2006-2007                12        12        16       18      18      19     22   30
B2.Primarybalanceis at historicalaverageminusone standarddeviationsin2006-2007                 12        12         6        6       9      10     11    5
B3. Combinationof B1-B2 usingone half standarddeviation shocks                                 12        12         5        4       8      10     11    3
B4. One-time30percentrealdepreciationin2006                                                    12        13        16       17       16     16     17   16
B5. 10percent of GDPincreaseinotherdebt-creatingflows in2006                                   12        12        20       17       14     14     14   13


 Sources: Counhyauthorities; andFundstaff estimates andprojections.
 11 Assumes that real GDP growth is at baselineminusone standarddeviationdividedby the squareroot of 20 (Le., the length of the projectionperiod)
 2Revenuesaredefinedinclusiveofgrants.




                                                                           82

a:
r-.




m
W




c

      FigureAi. Guyana:Indicatorsof Publicand Publicly GuaranteedExternalDebt
            UnderAlternative Scenarios,Baseline- Without MDFU,2009-25
                                    (In percent)




                                                   _______--__------




I80

164

140

120

100
 so
 M1

 40

 20




I5 t
in




                                         84

              Figure A2. Guyana:1ndica:ors of Publicand Publicly GuaranteedExternal Debt
                          Under Alternative Scenarios,MDRIscenario, 2005-25
                                                (Inpercent)




     2w5 2w6 2    ~ 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 mi4 2015 mi6 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 20s
                     7


IRO

I60  -                                   NPVofdebt-to-exportsratio

       - _ - 1 - 1 - _ - 1 - _ - 1 - _ - - - - _ - - - - - - - - - *
140  .




4w

350

3w

250

200

I50

100

 50
  O     l   .   '   "    .   .   .   .   .    .   `   "    '   .    .   .   .    .   '   '
     21105 2006 2W7 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025




    I
1015




     2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20x6 m i 7 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025


35

30

2s

20

15

LO


 J                                                                                      Historical s~ulario


 0
    xx15 zow, 2007 2008 2m 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2010 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025

 Source.Staff projectionsand simulations




                                                        85

