Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
FINANCING NUMBER H216-0-GUA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction and Public Management Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 8, 2006  
 
Page  2
FINANCING NUMBER H216-0-GUA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 8, 2006
,
entered into between REPUBLIC OF GUYANA (“Recipient”) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of 
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions 
which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-
economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to six million seven 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SD
R
6,700,000) (“Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
Page  3
2
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the 
Association, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action listed 
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Association's approval of the Credit which expire on 
October 26, 2007. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Main and Urquhart Streets 
Georgetown 
 
Cooperative Republic of Guyana 
 
Page  4
3
Facsimile: 
    (592) 
226-1284
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA 
 
By /s/ Bayney Karran 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1.   
The Recipient has:  
 
(a)  
prepared and published a five-year Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) 
consistent with PRSP objectives and debt sustainability, including: (i) a 
methodology for selecting and ranking future projects; and (ii
)
the Recipient’s 
commitment to subject all public investment projects, estimated to each cost 
above ten million Dollars (net of grants) and appraised after June 1, 2005, 
excluding those financed by multilateral financial institutions, to a detailed 
feasibility study reviewed by the Association or the Inter-American Development 
Bank for economic, environmental and financial viability; and  
 
(b)  
integrated the PSIP into the Recipient’s budget for 2006. 
 
2.  
The Recipient has made progress in the improvement of public financial management by:  
 
(a)  
the enactment of the Audit Act;  
 
(b)  
the adoption of  the audit regulations under the Audit Act in the Recipient’s 
Official Gazette dated July 23, 2005;  
 
(c)  
implementation of the Auditor General’s key recommendations contained in the 
Auditor General’s report dated September, 2004 for fiscal year ending December 
31, 2003; and  
 
(d)  
the launching of the first phase of the fiduciary oversight strengthening program 
contained in the Fiduciary Oversight Implementation Action Plan,  through, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) stakeholder consultations which agreed on and endorsed thirty 
recommendations related to strengthening fiduciary oversight, limiting use of 
discretionary powers and disclosure of public officials’ assets and 
implementation process; (ii) the issuance of a press release specifying reforms 
agreed to with stakeholders during the consultations process; (iii) publication of 
the Fiduciary Oversight Implementation Action Plan agreed with the Association, 
including a timeline, technical assistance requirements and funding sources for 
the implementation of the agreed recommendations; (iv) endorsement through 
policy statements by the Recipient’s Prime Minister, the Recipient’s Minister of 
Finance and Recipient’s Minister of  Parliamentary Affairs, in the Recipient’s 
Parliament specifying reforms agreed to with stakeholders; and (v) submission to 
Parliament of the revised standing orders. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has continued the satisfactory reform of its regulatory and institutional 
public procurement framework consistent with established international standards, 
through: (a) the adoption of the amended National Procurement Act and its regulations, 
Page  7
6
and their dissemination; (b) the appointment of staff for 
the Recipient’s National and 
Regional Tender Boards and Secretariat; (c) the adoption of standard bidding documents 
and evaluation criteria; and (d) the completion of the first annual audit of procurement 
operations.
 
4. 
The Recipient has: (a) issued the first semi-annual publication of executed current and 
capital public expenditures by sector and priority poverty related programs; (b) published 
a
summary of its 2002 census; (c) launched a household income and expenditure survey; 
and (d) completed the mapping of access to basic services.    
 
5. 
The Recipient has adopted and made satisfactory progress in the implementation of an 
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the Skeldon sugar factory and associated 
cane field expansion. 
 
6. 
The Recipient has submitted to its Parliament a revised bill for improving the legal basis 
for sustainable and environmentally sound management of the Recipient’s forests. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing (except for amounts required to 
repay the Project Preparation Advance) shall be withdrawn in a single tranche (in order to 
take into account differences caused by exchange rate fluctuations between the SDR and 
the USD in which the Project Preparation Advance is denominated, as well as by the 
timing of withdrawal of the Single Tranche, the amounts reflected below to the Project 
Preparation Advance and the Single Tranche may be subject to reallocation by the 
Association pursuant to Section 2.08 of the General Conditions).  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing
 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
 
6,270,000    
 
Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
(amount due under 
Section 2.07 of the 
General Conditions) 
 
430,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
6,700,000
Page  8
7
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account for the Single Tranche Category 
shall be deposited by the Association into an account designated by the Recipient 
in its Central Bank, and acceptable to the Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account,
 an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Audit. 
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Designated Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the last disbursement from the Designated Account has 
been made, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Designated 
Account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2007. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Audit Act” means the Audit Act of the Recipient, dated April 27, 2005, as said Act has 
been amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Auditor General” means the Recipient’s Auditor General. 
 
3. 
“Designated Account” means the account referred to in Section II, Part C.1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient; 
 
Group 
 
 
Sub-group 
 
Description of Item 
112
Alcoholic beverages 
121
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  10
9
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
 
5. 
“Fiduciary Oversight Implementation Action Plan” means the fiduciary oversight 
implementation action plan issued by the Recipient, dated March, 2006 and published in 
the Recipient’s official website. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Financings”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications set forth in Section 
II of this Appendix. 
 
7. 
“National Procurement Act” means the National Procurement Act of the Recipient, dated 
July 28, 2003 as said Act has been amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Parliament” means the Recipient’s legislative branch as defined in Title 2 of the 
Recipient’s Constitution. 
 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated March 9, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
10. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient for the preparation of the 
Secondary Towns Infrastructure Development Project, pursuant to the letter agreement 
signed on October 28, 1996 and declared effective on November 8, 1996. 
 
11. 
“PRSP” means Report No. 24172-GUA, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper for the 
Recipient discussed by the Board of the Association on September 19, 2002. 
 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  11
10 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.07 is hereby replaced to read in its entirety as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Project Preparation Advance  
If the Association or the Bank has made an advance to the Recipient for the preparation 
of a Project (“Project Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the 
amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all unpaid charges on the 
advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or 
the Bank, as the case may be, and shall cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
advance.  
 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
Page  12
11 
 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
