Document of
The World Bank
FOR OPICUAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13303
PEOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 1825-STP)
AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT (A-29-STP)
JULY 1, 1994
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofticial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit = Dobra (Db)
Period Average Exchange Rates
US$1.00 =
1987        1988         1989        1990         1991         1992        1993
55          87          124          140         280          375         380
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
AfDF         African Development Fund
BNSTP         Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe
(National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe)
ECOMEX        Empresa de Comercio Externo
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
PCR          Project Completion Report
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP           Structural Adjustment Program
SDR          Special Drawing Right
STP           Sao Tome and Principe
WFP           World Food Program
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
OMce of Director-General
Operations EvalusUon
July 1, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sao Tome and Principe
First Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1825-STP)
and African Facility Credit (A-29-STP)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sao Tome and Principe First Structural Adjustment
Credit (Credit 1825-STP) and African Facility Credit (A-29-STP) prepared by the Africa Regional Office,
with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The SAC I and the African Facility Credit supported the Government's economic recovery program
through (i) exchange rate devaluation; (ii) monetary and fiscal reforms; (iii) price liberalization; and (iv)
incentives to promote private sector development. The fiscal reforms included major measures designed to
restructure the public investment program and the public enterprise sector.
Overall, the performance of the reform program under SAC I is rated satisfactory and its institutional
development impact negligible. The major policy measures were implemented, but with delays. The serious
overvaluation of the currency was overcome through the adoption of a more flexible exchange rate. Trade
liberalization improved domestic incentives for production. The import and export administrative procedures
were simplified. To facilitate implementation of reform measures, IDA allowed the split of the second
tranche, by introducing a third tranche. Sustainability, however, is uncertain. To continue support of further
reforms, IDA subsequently extended a second adjustment credit, SAC II.
The PCR provides an account of the objectives, accomplishments, and shortcomings of the program
implementation. Political problems apparently contributed to the weakening of resolve on program
implementation. This was aggravated by a weak institutional and administrative capacity in government.
OED intends to carry out an audit of this adjustment operation together with the Economic
Rehabilitation and Modernization Project and with SAC II, when the latter is completed.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 1825-STP)
AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT (A-29-STP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                 ....................    i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................   ii
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE .1
1. Project Identity .1
1. INTRODUCTION .1
A. Country Context .1
B. Economic Performance: 1980-1986.                                     2
C. Structural Adjustment Program.                                      2
2. CREDIT BACKGROUND.                                                       3
A. Preparation of the Credit.                                           3
B. Role of the IMF.                                                    4
3. CREDIT DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION.                                        4
A. Credit Design.                                                      4
1. Credit Objectives.                                                4
2. Conditions of Second Tranche Release            .5
B. Implementation of SAC I.                                             6
1. Correcting Macroeconomic Distortions.                             6
a. Exchange Rate Policy.                                          6
b. Fiscal Policy.                                                 7
c. Monetary Policy.                                               7
2. Restoring the Profitability of Agriculture.                       7
3. Administrative Reforms.                                           8
a. Civil Service Reform.                                          8
b. Public Enterprises.                                            8
c. Cocoa Export Taxes.                                            9
4. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT.                                              9
A. Economic Impact.                                                     9
B. Social Impact .10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.)
Page No.
5.  CREDIT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION  ....                           .....    11
A. Role of IDA .1.................................  1
B. Credit Monitoring and Administration  .....              ............    11
1. Credit Disbursements and Procurement .....               ..........    12
2. Reporting and Auditing  ........            .................    12
3. Tranche Release and Closing .......             ...............    12
C. IDA Performance ...............................  13
D. Borrower Performance ..........               .................             13
6.  ASSESSMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  .....                           ..........    14
A. Administrative Capacity  .........             .................    14
B. Consistency in Implementation  .......             ...............    15
C. Risks   .....................................                              15
D. Flexibility in Tranching  .........            .................    15
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...  17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .........................    18
Table 1 Basic Credit Data .18
Table 2 Matrix of Policy Actions .20
Table 3 Key Economic Indicators .22



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST STIRUCTJRAL ADJUSTMlENT CREDrT (CREDT 1825-STP)
AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT (A-29-SP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC) (IDA Credit 1825-STP and African Facility Credit A029-STP). SAC was approved
on June 23, 1987 for SDR 5.4 million (US$4.0 million), and the Closing Date was extended
to March 31, 1992, three years beyond the original Closing Date. The final disbursements
were made on June 25, 1992. 99.9 percent of the approved amount was disbursed; the
remainder was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division (AF4CO) of the
Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Preparation of the
PCR was based on, inter alia, the President's Report, the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Credit Agreements, Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda. AF4CO requested the Borrower to
provide its program review perspective and these comments are provided Part II of the PCR.
In the absence of the Government's adjustment effort and the associated foreign
financing, GDP and living standards would have continued to decline and the shift in incomes
in favor of the rural sector would have been delayed. While the overall impact of the
program on GDP and living standards was positive in 1987-89, during 1990, the Government
encountered serious difficulties in implementing the adjustment program. Many of the
macroeconomic targets and objectives were not met and most other key structural reforms
fell behind schedule.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 1825-STP)
AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT (A-29-STP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The purpose of the First Structural Adjustment Credit and the African Facility Credit
was to "support the Government's economic recovery program and allow economic activity to
expand while the reform program is implemented." This objective was expected to be achieved
through a major exchange rate devaluation, monetary and fiscal policy reforms including the
restructuring of the public investment program and loss-making public enterprises, price
liberalization, and an incentive package to facilitate private initiative. The anticipated benefits
of the project were aimed at improving the growth prospects of the economy through better
incentives, an adequate supply of producer and consumer goods, more efficient allocation of
foreign exchange, and the creation of an environment conducive to private initiative and
investment.
Implementation of SAC I
2.       SAC I was broadly successful. During the Credit period, the country moved from
a centrally planned to a more open economy with a more market orientation. During this period,
the Government focussed mainly on stabilization measures to correct macroeconomic distortions,
and there was movement from a centrally planned to an open economy with a market orientation.
Notwithstanding key changes in the Government's economic team in early 1988 and again in
January 1989 that delayed implementation of the macroeconomic program, a series of measures
introduced in mid-1988 and reinforced in 1989 kept the overall program on track. This occurred
despite a sharp decline in the international cocoa price and a deterioration in the country's terms
of trade.
3.       The Government successfully reduced the overvaluation of the domestic currency
through a more flexible exchange rate policy. It also achieved some progress in controlling the
fiscal deficit which contributed to slowing down credit expansion and improving price stability
in the economy. Trade liberalization has improved the incentives for production and export.
Import and export administrative procedures have been simplified. The dismantling of price
controls and the elimination of all subsidies on imported foodstuffs and petroleum products is
notable. Most noteworthy is the greater role allocated to the private sector in domestic and
external trade and in the management of cocoa estates leading to their eventual privatization.
Some modest progress was made in institution-building.
4.       In 1990, however, the program was not consistently pursued in part because of
upcoming elections. By end-1990 at the completion of the program, most of the macroeconomic
targets and objectives remained largely unmet. Also, structural reforms began to fall behind
schedule. In 1991, the economic and financial situation showed further signs of deterioration,
as the adjustment policies that were to have been implemented in the latter part of 1990 and 1991
were postponed because of national elections held in early 1991. Subsequently, with the peaceful



- iii -
transition to a multi-party democracy in early 1991, more concerted implementation of the
program has resumed and the macroeconomic situation has stabilized.
Results of SAC I
5.       The adjustment program and the accompanying foreign financing was instrumental in
curtailing the decline in GDP growth and living standards observed in mid-1980s which would
have likely continued on a downward trajectory in the absence of reform. The overall impact
of the program on GDP was positive in 1988 and 1989. But GDP fell in 1990, reflecting
program implementation problems and a sharp decline in the terms of trade. As is frequently the
case in structural adjustment programs, the social impact has been mixed. Preliminary evidence
suggests that civil servants and urban residents have been adversely affected because of price
increases in fuel and utilities. Meanwhile, the impact on the rural population has been positive
because the terms of trade have favored agriculture.
Assesment and Lessons Learned
A.        Administrative Capacity
6.        The objectives of the program were very ambitious in relation to the Government's
administrative capacity. Outstanding measures associated with institutional reforms, namely in
the civil service, public enterprises and the tax system suffered from a lack of adequate and
timely technical assistance and studies. In retrospect, the relatively weak administrative capacity
suggests that the timetable for the institutional reforms was too short and the program was too
ambitious.
7.       Lessons Learned. The program's primary risk which was articulated at the outset,
pertaining to the limited administrative capacity in the public sector to make decisions and
implement the proposed reforms therefore, proved important. Further, the limited experience
of the Government which has been dealing with a very complex and ambitious agenda in a
difficult economic environment, coupled with limited political support, has rendered the tasks to
be quite challenging. Structural reforms require not only the analytical capacity to propose major
changes, but also the capacity to implement them. Implementation plans need to developed in
relation to the capacity of the agencies undertaking reform.
B.        Consistency in Implementation
8.       The experience of Sao Tome and Principe illustrates the importance of consistency in
implementation. The adjustment process initially proceeded well, but implementation was
sidetracked. Much less time was devoted to the program than was necessary and hence,
administrative capacity was exacerbated by the need to attend to the political transition. The
situation was further exacerbated by foreign exchange constraints, precipitated by sharply falling
world market prices for cocoa, growing debt service obligations, and additional spending on
housing that was not included in the approved public investment program.
9.       Lessons Learned. The appropriate timing of implementation of a complex set of
reforms is an essential ingredient of success. If adjustment proceeds from the outset but is
deterred because of external and internal circumstances, important gains may be diminished. It



- iv -
should not be unexpected that implementation would be delayed by transitions in the political
order. To the extent that such transitions are known during the course of program design, it is
important to build these considerations into implementation establishing timetables and conditions
of effectiveness. In such cases, priorities on several strategic interventions would recognize the
impact of such events as well as the scarcity of implementation capacity.
C.        Risks
10.      One of the main vulnerabilities of the project was its linkage with cocoa prices.
Certainly the structure of agriculture production in which cocoa was and continues to be the main
area of comparative advantage suggests that the cocoa sector be bolstered as part of an adjustment
program. The extensive reliance on cocoa export revenues as a means of financing the public
sector indicates the precariousness of the economy generally, as well as the tenuousness of efforts
that build on an uncertain and vulnerable foundation.
11.      Lessons Learned. Adjustment programs need to build on a country's strengths and
given that cocoa is a product for which Sao Tome and Principe is well-known suggests that it was
appropriate to focus on this subsector in an adjustment program. Simultaneously, however, it
is also well-known that reliance on a single commodity for the sustenance of the economy can
jeopardize adjustment efforts. Hence, to the extent that agricultural diversification strategies can
be built in to reform programs, it would ameliorate -- admittedly over time -- the precariousness
of the economy.
D.        Flexibility in Tranching
12.      The experience of Sao Tome and Principe illustrates the need for flexibility in
modifying initial tranching conditions and thereby accommodating local circumstances. Two
factors were important in the Government's performance in the adjustment program. First, the
international price of cocoa, the main source of export revenues, dropped by 25 percent from
mid-1987 to mid-1988. This decline led to a critical shortage for foreign exchange which would
preclude the ability to finance a minimum level of imports. Without the minimal level of
imports, the Government's ability to maintain its commitment to the reform program would have
been severely constrained.
13.      Given the progress that was demonstrated in terms of the macroeconomic measures
that had been implemented, the credit's original tranching specifications were modified. But also,
there was some concern about delays in the implementation of the institutional reforms as well
as the strength of macroeconomic performance that suggested the need to split the second tranche.
The third tranche release was  conditioned on the implementation of the outstanding
administrative measures and continued satisfactory progress on the macroeconomic side.
14.      Lessons Learned. The Bank's strategy for supervising progress needs to be adaptive
and flexible in the context of changes in internal and external circumstances. In this case, the
third tranche was created to acknowledge the progress made and to permit additional progress
in those areas that lagged behind at the time of the release of the second tranche.






SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 1825-STP)
AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT (A-29-STP)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name                             First Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit Number                            Credit 1825-STP and
African Facility Credit A-29-STP
Credit Amount                     .      US$18.0 million
Regional Unit                     .      Africa Regional Office
Country                           :      Sao Tome & Principe
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    The First Structural Adjustment Credit and the African Facility Credit supported the Sao
Tome and Principe Government's Structural Adjustment Program (SAP). The credit provided
the vehicle for the dialogue between IDA and Sao Tome and Principe on macroeconomic and
institutional issues. This dialogue was instrumental in achieving major policy breakthroughs in
an economy traditionally characterized by strong government control. The credit also served as
a vehicle for IDA's dialogue with other donors.
A.    Country Context
2.    Upon independence in 1975, Sao Tome and Principe (STP) emerged from five centuries
as a Portuguese colony with an economy oriented toward the production of a single crop, cocoa.
Under colonial rule, cocoa was produced on estates covering virtually all the country's arable
land, leaving no room for smallholders and forcing dependence on imported goods. Following
independence, the new Government was faced with an aging production base and a critical lack
of skilled manpower. It responded with an economic policy based on central planning and
priority programs in health and education. An ambitious public investment program was initiated
in 1976 and carried through to 1983 which involved substantial investments in construction,
poultry, beverages, fishing, transport, and tourism. The nationalized cocoa estates were
regrouped into 15 state enterprises which performed poorly. Cocoa production, which had stood
at about 10,000 tons in 1975, dropped to 4,500 tons in 1987. Poor management, aging cocoa
trees, volatile international cocoa prices, and inappropriate exchange and credit policies were the
major factors that accounted for the sharp decline in production. However, the soil is well-suited
to cocoa production as well as a broad range of crops owing to the variety of microclimates that
exist.



- 2-
B.    Economic Performance: 1980-1986
3.    Ten years after independence, the STP economy was precarious.  Under the fixed
exchange rate policy, the real exchange rate appreciated by an estimated 80 percent between 1977
and 1985. Meanwhile, the initial decreases in cocoa production led to large operating deficits
for the agricultural state enterprises, which the Government financed through expansionary credit
policies that fueled inflation. Expansionary monetary and credit policies to finance domestic
deficits, coupled with official price controls, led to the appearance of parallel markets for
domestic and imported goods. The purchasing power of workers in state-owned farms fell
substantially. Government policies that set prices and wages provided little if any incentive to
increase productivity. GDP per capita declined by an estimated 30 percent in real terms during
the period. A large public sector investment program (an average of 40 percent of GDP) focused
on capital-intensive projects and was financed mainly through external borrowings and did not
contribute significantly to value added. Instead, heavy recurrent costs ensued.
4.     From 1980 to 1986, the goods and services account balance deficits averaged 50 percent
of GDP. Corresponding deficits in the current account balance were financed through a draw-
down on external reserves, short-term borrowings in 1982 and 1984, reschedulings in 1984 and
1985, and a build up of external arrears from 1983 to 1986 totaling more than US$ 24 million
at the end of 1986. Outstanding external debt at the end of 1986 reached US$65 million,
excluding arrears which were equivalent to 141 percent of GDP. Export receipts increased from
US$7 million to only US$10 million per annum. Meanwhile, scheduled external debt service
payments amounting to US$7 million in 1986 represented over two-thirds of the country's exports
of goods and non-factor services. At the end of 1986, external reserves represented only 6 weeks
of imports.
5.    In 1984, the Government moved to liberalize the economy. Initial steps were taken to
withdraw the public sector from commercial activities and a new Investment Code was adopted
to encourage foreign private investment. A land distribution program also was initiated.
Meanwhile, the Government's priority objective was (and still is) to rehabilitate the cocoa sector.
An increase in cocoa production was expected to be achieved though more efficient management
of state enterprises and better crop husbandry. A sustainable recovery of cocoa production and
the agricultural sector generally would depend on the successful implementation of an incentives-
based reform. Given the severe distortions which characterized the STP economy, these reforms
were not expected to succeed if a parallel effort was not undertaken to introduce fundamental
changes in the macroeconomic policies that were identified as the root cause of the decline of the
sector. Considering the size of the imbalances and the external debt contracted prior to 1986,
substantial balance of payments support was required to bridge the external gaps until the cocoa
rehabilitation projects could start yielding increases in exports. Notwithstanding the adoption of
reforms beginning in 1984 aimed at reorienting the incentive system, internal and external
imbalances remained at critical levels.
C.    Structural Adjustment Program
6.    To resolve the economic and financial crisis and avoid a further deterioration of the
economy, the Government decided to systematically pursue an outward-oriented development
strategy. This strategy was expected to take advantage of the country's extensive natural
resources for the expansion of agriculture, even as it took into account the country's
socioeconomic structure resulting from five centuries of monocultivation of cash crops and the



- 3 -
very small numbers of independent farmers. The Government's strategy was based on four
essential objectives to be carried out in two phases:
(i)    create the enabling environment for a strong expansion of agricultural output and
exports and progressive diversification toward other foreign exchange earners,
particularly tourism-related activities;
(ii)   reduce the public sector deficit while shifting available resources toward the
productive sectors, particularly agriculture;
(iii)  stimulate growth by reforming the incentive system including pricing and wage
policies in favor of the rural sector and greater private sector participation; and
(iv)   implement a financial strategy to mobilize the concessional external resources
needed to achieve stabilization and balanced growth.
2. CREDIT BACKGROUND
A.    Preparation of the Credit
7.    It was originally envisaged that a credit operation would be undertaken to rehabilitate the
cocoa sector. But it was concluded that investment in the sector alone would not lead to the
hoped-for increases in production and exports without a concurrent operation to address
macroeconomic imbalances. Indeed in May 1986, an IMF Article IV Consultation mission with
Bank participation concluded that macroeconomic distortions constituted a major obstacle to
growth and cocoa production.
8.    In November 1986, a Bank mission with IMF and AfDB staff participation agreed with
the Government on a 'Program of Macroeconomic Adjustment' which articulated a
comprehensive set of reforms that would be implemented in phases. The first phase of the
program was designed to remove the most critical macroeconomic distortions, namely an
overvalued exchange rate and excessive fiscal deficits and monetary expansion, and restore the
profitability of the agriculture sector, cocoa in particular. During this phase, long-term technical
assistance coordinated by UNDP and financed by UNDP, AfDB, IDA and IMF was selected to
assist the Government in managing the structural adjustment process.
9.    A staff appraisal mission, with the IMF and AfDB staff participation, visited STP in April
1987 to work with the Government on the detailed design of the lending operation that would
support the first phase of the SAP. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1987. SAC
I was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1987 and became effective in January 1988.
The second phase of the SAP was planned to assist in consolidating progress made under the first
phase. It is supported by SAC II, which was approved by Executive Directors in June 1990.
10.   In parallel to the macroeconomic adjustments, the Government sought to remove some
of the physical constraints affecting not only the cocoa sub-sector, but other economic sectors
which could block the efforts undertaken to improve cocoa production. A series of small priority
investments were identified in agriculture, transport and energy as well as technical assistance to



- 4 -
undertake institutional reforms. This effort was supported by IDA through the Economic
Rehabilitation and Modernization Line of Credit, which was approved by Executive Directors in
May 1985.
B.    Role of the IMF
11.   IDA coordinated closely with the IMF in the preparation of the Credit; Fund staff
participated in both the preparation and appraisal missions in particular to provide support to the
discussion with the authorities on monetary and fiscal policies. Based on the result of the SAC
appraisal mission, IDA and Fund staff prepared a draft Policy Framework Paper (PFP) as a basis
for the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) requested by the authorities in February 1987 and
the Government reached broad agreement with the IMF on its content. The IMF assessment at
the time was that the measures described in the SAC would produce a major improvement i the
country's overall economic and financial situation and would represent a very important first step
toward the achievement of external viability.
12.   Use of the IMF's ordinary resources was not envisaged by STP, as it seemed likely that
the Government would be in a position to service borrowings from the Fund over the medium
term. The Fund was, however, to provide vital assistance to the authorities in formulating their
macroeconomic policies, and in setting specific annual performance targets for monetary and
fiscal policies. These targets were agreed with the Fund in the context of the SAF. It was
expected at the time that a first year program would be in place by the end of 1987.
3. CREDIT DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Credit Design
1.    Credit Objectives
13.   The objective of SAC I was to improve the growth prospects of the economy through
better incentives to encourage private investment and initiative, an adequate supply of producer
and consumer goods, more efficient reallocation of foreign exchange, and concentration of
investment in the productive sectors. In quantitative terms, it was projected that economic growth
would be sustained at about 3 percent over the 1987-1990 period. Investment was predicted to
increase from 25 percent of GDP in 1986 to 70 percent of GDP in 1990.
14.   Pursuant to these objectives, the policy package included a major exchange rate
devaluation, monetary and fiscal policies including the restructuring of the public investment
program and loss-making public enterprises, price liberalization and an incentive package to
facilitate private initiative. Technical assistance, financed under separate arrangements, was to
be provided to strengthen economic management in the areas of exchange rate, fiscal monetary
and investment policies as well as economic data collection. Parallel financing was provided by
African Development Fund FUAs 7.0 million (US$8.5 million equivalent), and IMF SAF of SDR
1.9 million $2.4 million equivalent). The financing package totaled about US$ 18.0 million
equivalent.



15.   The major risk identified during appraisal was that inadequate administrative capacity in
the country could delay the implementation of the adjustment program. This risk was expected
to be minimized by the progressive withdrawal of the Government from productive and
commercial activities and by the technical assistance (provided by several multilateral and
bilateral institutions and coordinated by UNDP) to assist the Government in managing the
program. To counter sociopolitical risks caused by the removal of distortions in the months
following the devaluation, the Government introduced a program to alleviate the impact of the
price increases on vulnerable groups, including a redeployment fund to facilitate the relocation
of redundant public sector employees. Other risks identified were (a) the risk of a sharp
downturn in the international economic environment (particularly a drop in cocoa prices); and (b)
lower supply response from both private farmers and public estates. While there was nothing that
could be done to avoid the first risk, given the long-term nature of the agricultural diversification
process, the second risk was expected to be largely mitigated through the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project and through the greater availability of imported producer and consumer goods financed
through the Credits.
2.    Conditions of Second Tranche Release
16.   The Credits were originally to be disbursed in two tranches. The disbursement of the
first tranche of SDR 1.5 million (US$ 2.0 million equivalent), including retroactive financing for
an aggregate amount of SDR 0.7 million, (US$1.0 million equivalent) was to be available upon
effectiveness of the Credits and the second tranche of about US$5.0 million equivalent following
a performance review in mid-1988. The estimated period of disbursements was September 1987
to March 1989. The specific conditions for release of the second tranche were grouped into two
main areas:
(a)    macroeconomic and pricing policies emphasizing:
(i)    satisfactory progress in the implementation of an exchange rate reform;
(ii)   approval of a satisfactory fiscal program and credit target including a
public investment program;
(iii)   approval of a satisfactory action plan for the gradual price increase of six
basic commodities.
(b)    administrative reforms emphasizing:
(i)    satisfactory progress in reducing the size of the civil service;
(ii)   approval of a satisfactory action plan for the reform of the cocoa export
tax system;
(iii)  settlement of the debt owed by public sector enterprises to BNSTP and
the Treasury;
(iv)   approval of a satisfactory action plan to restructure, privatize or close
public enterprises;



(v)    approval of a satisfactory action plan to restructure the public export
trade company accounts to settle past debts;
(vi)   approval of satisfactory action plan for setting up new tariff structure for
fuels, electricity, and water to achieve full cost recovery.
B.    Implementation of SAC I
17.   SAC I was broadly successful. During the Credit period, the country moved from a
centrally planned to a more open economy with a more market orientation. As described in more
detail below, even though many of the targets in the program were not met, the Government
adopted and sustained a broad range of stabilization and adjustment measures including successive
exchange rate devaluations and liberalization of most domestic prices. Some modest progress was
made in institution-building.
1.     Correcting Macroeconomic Distortions
a.    Exchange Rate Policy
18.   A central element in the program was the establishment of a realistic market value for
the dobra. 1/ In July 1987 an exchange rate adjustment of 101 percent was designed to secure
profitability of cocoa production. Excess demand for foreign exchange continued, however.
Consequently, in January 1988, the Government introduced a 30 percent across-the-board import
surcharge which was replaced by a 33 percent exchange rate devaluation in July 1988. Yet
another devaluation of 20 percent occurred in February 1989. By this time, the gap between the
parallel and official exchange rates was reduced from an estimated 120 percent to about 20
percent. Further, although world cocoa prices had declined, the reforms helped make the
reformed cocoa estates more profitable. In addition, the Government lent its commitment to
maintain a flexible exchange rate regime whose purpose was to minimize the gap with the parallel
market and pursue higher profitability for cocoa.
19.   The Government continued to adjust the official exchange rate to changes in the parallel
market rate, devaluing by 8 percent in October 1989, 9 percent in November 1989 and a further
7 percent in May 1990. These steps reduced the gap between the official and parallel exchange
rates from about 85 percent in July 1987 to about 25 percent in May 1990; at the end of 1992,
the gap had been virtually eliminated. They also led to a 75 percent devaluation of the dobra in
real terms vis a vis the U.S. dollar since the inception of the program. Unfortunately, these
exchange rate adjustments were taken only after long delays which resulted in an exchange rate
policy which helped to reduce price distortions but did not go far enough to improve
competitiveness or reduce the trade gap significantly. Z/ The country continued to rely heavily
on external assistance. Thus, between mid-1987 and end-1990, the real effective exchange rate
depreciated by 20 percent, indicating a modest enhancement of the country's competitiveness
during the period.
1/    The dobra was pegged to the SDR until 1987 when it was linked to a basket of currencies of nine major
trading partners of the country.
21     During the 1986-1990 period, the tcrms of trade of STP continued to detcriorate (30 percent in the period)
as did that of most other Sub-Saharan countries.



- 7 -
b.    Fiscal Policy
20.   In early 1988, fiscal performance deteriorated but mid-year corrections including
devaluation, fiscal discipline, and higher sales taxes and fees sought to reverse this trend.
Overall, for 1987 and 1988, the fiscal deficit on a commitment basis declined to about 8 percent
of GDP as compared to 10 percent in 1986. To pursue continued reductions of the deficit to 3.7
percent of GDP in 1989 and to keep the fiscal program on track, the Government initiated
additional fiscal measures in February 1989. They included price increases for six strategic food
imports as well as petroleum products, electricity and telecommunications, and a 50 percent tax
increase on alcoholic beverages and tobacco. In mid-1989, the Government eliminated price
subsidies on beans, cooking oil and rice. These steps reduced subsidy expenditures. At the end
of 1989, the Government eliminated subsidies on the remaining essential foodstuffs -- sugar and
wheat flour. But maximum profit margins were still applied and were maintained until early
1992. The 1989 fiscal deficit (on a commitments basis) was estimated at 8 percent of GDP which
is above the 5 percent of GDP target. During 1990, the fiscal deficit continued its upward trend
increasing to 11.9 percent of GDP. However, if interest payments on external debt are excluded,
the deficit (on a commitment basis) narrowed to 3.0 percent of GDP by 1990.
21.    The inability to meet program targets was the result of several factors:  (a) lower than
projected cocoa earnings due to the sharp fall in cocoa prices; (b) lower than expected imports
due to poor management of external resources; (c) serious weaknesses in tax administration
compounded by the failure to adjust fully specific import taxes as well as some administered
prices in line with exchange rate adjustment; and (d) lower-than-programmed profit transfers from
public enterprises.
C.     Monetary Policy
22.   During the program period, the Government substantially reduced its need for deficit-
financing through domestic credit expansion. Although it did not achieve the credit benchmarks
agreed in the context of the Structural Adjustment Facility, the Government followed a fairly
stringent credit policy in 1988 and 1989. While domestic credit grew by 19 percent in 1989 and
by 56 percent in 1990, reflecting substantial increases in credit needs of the Government, these
borrowings were offset during 1988-1990 by a buildup of sterilized counterpart funds generated
by external balance of payments financing on concessional terms.
23.   While there is no reliable price index for STP, it is estimated that prices, as measured
by the official consumer price index, increased by an average of 25 percent in 1987, 40 percent
in 1988, 36 percent in 1989, and 30 percent in 1990; based on movements in market prices,
rather than changes in official prices, the rates of inflation for 1988, 1989 and 1990 were much
lower. In early 1987 interest rates were adjusted sharply and became positive in real terms for
a period. In a reverse of the policy in 1987, nominal rates were reduced in 1988 and deposit and
lending rates became negative in real terms and remained negative through 1990.
2.     Restoring the Profitability of Agriculture
24.   The underlying thrust of the first phase of the Government's adjustment program was to
restore agricultural output. The strategy has been to improve efficiency and productivity of the
cocoa producing sector, diversify into other export crops (e.g. fish, coffee, and pepper), increase



- 8 -
food self-sufficiency, and explore prospects for agro-allied investments (e.g. cocoa processing)
and tourism. This thrust was to be achieved by appropriate trade liberalization and producer
pricing policy framework, improved production and management technology, increased worker
incentives, and more timely imported inputs, thereby avoiding disruption in the agricultural
production and marketing process. The sustained fall in cocoa prices since the adjustment
program  began, however, increased the magnitude of the adjustment required.  Thus,
Government has taken longer than originally planned to complete the stabilization and adjustment
process. The Government is currently studying the feasibility of leasing some public lands
directly to local and foreign investors.
3.    Administrative Reforms
25.   To increase the efficiency of the public sector, the Government embarked on a
comprehensive series of institutional reforms in 1987 addressing the civil service, public
enterprises, and the cocoa export tax system.
a.     Civil Service Reform
26.   As part of its civil service reform, the Government: (i) introduced a freeze on new hires;
(ii) completed a census to identify numbers, positions, and qualifications of civil servants and
eliminate ghost workers; (iii) enacted legislation to implement administrative reform and early
retirement; (iv) appointed an administration expert funded by UNDP to help with implementation
of the reform program; and (v) adopted an action plan for the next stages of reforms to be
implemented during phase two of the adjustment program. In February 1989, the Government
agreed to adopt a timetable for reduction in force beginning end-1989 following review of
existing staff members. The Government also agreed to establish a fund for civil servants who
would be retrenched. More recently, although targets for retrenchment have been discussed, as
well as incentive schemes for retaining qualified staff, civil service reform has been more difficult
to implement than had been anticipated since political support is weak.
b.    Public Enterprises
27.   The Government initiated a phased action program to restructure, privatize, or close
public enterprises, to settle cross debts, and to establish a new tariff structure for fuels,
electricity, and water. During the first phase, the Government created a full-time unit for
implementation of public enterprise reform within the Ministry of Economy and Finance and
appointed a senior civil servant to lead it. It agreed to privatize ROSEMA (beer), restructure
EMAG (publishing) and ATELIER CENTRAL (mechanic), and liquidate EMAVE (poultry).
Recently, progress has been achieved in the latter three public enterprises during the course of
the second structural adjustment credit, but the ROSEMA progress is lagging considerably
behind. Meanwhile, the brick factory (EMCERA II) and the telecommunications company
(ENATEL) were transformed into joint venture companies with majority foreign private
participation. Currently, financial data are being gathered for other public enterprises and audits
of selected public enterprises are being conducted.
28.   Other noteworthy achievements concern the electricity and water supply company,
EMAE, which made an operating profit in 1988 which was transferred to the Treasury. Further,
EMAE increased its electricity tariffs by 200 percent in February 1989. This increase more than
covered its increased costs to result in larger real transfers to the Treasury.



- 9 -
c.    Cocoa E:xport Taxes
29.   The Government sought to implement an action program to reform the cocoa export tax
system and to reduce the level and number of cocoa export taxes. In this context it consolidated
a number of taxes and reduced the level from 20 to 17 percent in 1989. To promote cocoa
production further, the Government planned to reduce export taxes to an ad valorem rate of not
more than 10 percent of the f.o.b. value. The cocoa export tax has been 10 percent since the
beginning of 1992. The tax remains because of the limited economic tax base. Most tax
revenues have come from the taxation of international trade and petroleum products. As tax
reform progresses and more revenues are obtained from income taxes, the cocoa export tax could
be gradually reduced.
4. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT
30.   In the absence of the Government's adjustment effort and the associated foreign financing,
GDP and living standards would have continued to decline and the shift in incomes in favor of
the rural sector would have been delayed. While the overall impact of the program on GDP and
living standards was positive in 1987-89, during 1990, the Government encountered serious
difficulties in implementing the adjustment program. Many of the macroeconomic targets and
objectives were not met and most other key structural reforms fell behind schedule.
A.    Economic Impact
31.   Compared with a decline in GDP by 4 percent in 1987, GDP is estimated to have grown
by 2 and 2.5 percent during 1988 and 1989, respectively, but declined by 2.2 percent in 1990.
This initial growth was due mainly to the impact on agricultural production and improved
management and incentives during the early years of the program. Cocoa production expanded
from about 3,900 tons in 1987 to about 4,300 tons in 1988 and to 5,000 tons in 1989. A supply
response was also observed in coffee, copra, oil palm, vegetables, fish, chicken, pork, and goat
production. Construction, mainly housing, and services, and tourism grew during the period.
32.   On the demand side, consumption grew by an estimated 6 percent in 1989 following
declines of 4 percent in 1987 and 1988. Consumption declined again in 1990 by 4 percent.
Total investment grew by an average of 15 percent during 1988 and by more than 70 percent in
1989. This compared to 6 percent in 1987. The increase in investment reflected mainly
substantial investments in agriculture, infrastructure, and health and education sectors.
33.   The current account deficit totaled US$26 million in 1989 which is about 44 percent of
GDP. This compared to US$ 15 million in 1987 and 1988. In 1989 and 1990, exports of goods
and services amounted to US$ 11 million compared to about US$ 15 million in 1988 and US$10
million in 1987. Reflecting investments in housing, imports of goods and services increased
substantially to US$ 38 million in 1990 from US$ 27 million in 1989, US$ 20 million in 1988
and US$ 17 million in 1987. The scheduled debt service to exports ratio was more than 100
percent in 1987, 60 percent in 1988, and 80 percent in 1989 which reflects rescheduling
agreements and changes in export earnings.



- 10-
34.   Official transfers amounted to about US$16.1 million in 1990 and US$10 million in 1989,
which includes US$ 6 million of food aid. These levels compare to US$7 million in 1988 and
US$ 9 million in 1987. The current account deficit was financed by rescheduling of debt
services, net foreign concessional inflows, short-term commercial inflows, and an accumulation
of debt service arrears.
35.   Despite many shortcomings, the overall program can be deemed to have some successes
because it resulted in a more flexible, market-based approach to economic management that
included significant liberalization of the price, trade, and exchange systems, as well as a
reorientation of the public investment program toward rehabilitation of the cocoa sector and of
the physical and social infrastructure. Most noteworthy is the greater role allocated to the private
sector in domestic and external trade and in the management of cocoa estates leading to their
eventual privatization.
36.   But in 1990, economic performance fell short in relation to what had been expected
largely because of implementation problems and a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade. Real
GDP declined and the primary fiscal deficit on a commitment basis widened significantly. This
was in large measure due to a revenue shortfall of about 40 percent as compared with the fiscal
program target. Meanwhile, credit targets were exceeded and the external current account deficit
(excluding official transfers) was higher than projected. Likewise, the overall balance of
payments deficit was larger than anticipated and was financed mostly by accumulation of external
payments arrears. In large part, the slippages were due to increased political activity in the run-
up to the first multi-party elections which took place in early 1991.
37.   It was in this context that SAC II was prepared - and presented to the Board in June
1990 - in support of the second phase of the structural adjustment program (1990-1992). The
thrust of this phase was to: (a) consolidate progress in exchange rate, fiscal and monetary policy;
(b) stimulate economic growth through appropriate trade and pricing policies, private investment
and diversification, cocoa sector development and land redistribution; (c) rationalize the public
investment program; (d) improve the administrative capacity of the public sector through public
enterprise and civil service reforms; (e) improve the functioning of the financial system; and (f)
manage the external debt burden with the view to freeing up resources for economic growth.
38.   The newly-elected Government reaffirmed its commitment to structural adjustment as
reflected in key measures implemented in the second half of 1991: a substantial depreciation of
the dobra, an intensive price liberalization program, more restrictive fiscal and monetary policies,
and the resumption of structural reforms that had been subject to delay. These reforms led to a
reduction of the primary fiscal deficit to 4.5 percent of GDP in 1991, a slowing down of the rate
of inflation, the achievement of positive real interest rates, and a narrowing of the gap between
the official and parallel exchange rates.
B.    Social Impact
39.   At the outset it was recognized that the reform program would shift the terms of trade
in favor of the rural sector which would result in substantial increases in rural household income.
Further, new wage and price liberalization policies were expected to benefit workers and small
landholders. Meanwhile, adjustment policies would require a reduction in Government spending
and employment, especially in public enterprises. The shifts in resource allocation and incentives
toward the private sector would involve a transition period.



- 11 -
40.   In recognition of the importance of ameliorating a negative social impact, the Government
sought at the outset to pursue several avenues of reform:
(a)    maintaining and increasing the distribution of food aid;
(b)   improving the efficiency of public expenditures in the social sectors such as
health and education;
(c)    monitor the social dimension of the structural adjustment program through a
UNDP-financed study managed by the World Bank;
(d)    establish a redeployment fund to provide for a stable transition for public
employees who are retrenched; and
(e)    allow for land distribution to provide new opportunities for land holding among
the poor.
41.   But the Government still needs to address emerging social problems in the urban sector
caused by unemployment and the removal of subsidies on basic foodstuffs, as urban public sector
wages have not kept pace with rising food prices. Preliminary findings indicate that adjustment
has adversely affected civil servants and urban residents largely because of increases in fuel and
utility prices. The impact on the rural population has been positive because the changes in the
terms of trade have favored agriculture.
5. CREDIT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
A.    Role of IDA
42.   IDA played an important role in STP's adjustment program through project preparation
and supervision. Indeed, given the size of the country and the absence of sufficient numbers of
qualified and experienced staff, IDA was well positioned to help the country steer its adjustment
program to allow it to respond more quickly and effectively to changes.   During project
preparation, a Bank mission assisted the authorities in preparing a draft Letter of Development
Policy and proposing a Timetable which defined the nature of the economic and financial crisis,
set forth the medium and long-term objectives of Government economic policy, and proposed an
action plan to restore macroeconomic equilibria. IDA monitoring of the program was carried out
through numerous missions specifically to review progress under the SAC. The IMF and AfDB
assisted the Government in implementing the devaluations and related fiscal and monetary
measures through short-term technical missions.
B.    Credit Monitoring and Administration
43.   The Ministry of Economy and Finance which was placed under the direct authority of
the President was responsible for implementing the program. Given the limited number of
qualified staff and the weak administrative capacity of the Government in general and specific
lack of experience in economic management, it was found necessary to address this deficiency
with experienced technical experts to assist in the monitoring of the program. Technical experts
were hired to advise the Ministry of Economy and Finance on coordination of fiscal and



- 12 -
monetary policy, public investment programming, and statistics. Meanwhile, the UNDP technical
assistance that was to have been provided during the course of the project, however, frequently
was not sufficiently timely nor effective in meeting project objectives.
1.    Credit Disbursements and Procurement
44.   Financing was limited to imports procured from eligible countries. Financing under the
African Facility was limited to imports procured from contributors to the Facility and Part II
countries of IDA. Financing for foodstuffs was limited to SDR1.8 million of disbursements
under IDA and the African Facility. The import and distribution of goods was to be handled by
normal commercial channels selected by the importer. Direct imports by the public sector were
in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. Imports over US$200,000 equivalent were to
be based on ICB, with the respective contracts reviewed by IDA, and imports of less than this
amount were to be carried out through limited international bidding with no fewer than three
quotations. Direct purchase was allowed for import contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent
up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million equivalent. No expenditure under contracts of less than
US$10,000 were eligible for financing. Retroactive financing up to SDR 700,000 equivalent for
IDA and the African Facility Credits was made available for expenditures prior to January 1,
1987. At effectiveness two Special Accounts were set up, with US$1.0 million and US$500,000
from IDA and the African Facility Credits, respectively.
45.   Disbursements under the IDA and African Facility Credits were effected through two
special accounts that were established on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.  The
disbursement of the funds was administered by BNSTP. It kept separate accounting records for
disbursement of foreign exchange and repayments of counterpart funds. The funds under the
credits were used for eligible expenditures mainly for importing consumption goods, agricultural
machinery, light industrial machinery, and raw materials. The staff in charge of the credits
reportedly did a good job keeping track of disbursement, but a January 1989 supervision mission
recommended as a matter of urgency that a disbursement seminar be held in Sao Tome and
Principe. It was thought to be useful that World Bank disbursement personnel spend time
working with the national staff who fill out the disbursement applications.
2.    Reporting and Auditing
46.   A February 1989 supervision mission requested the departments responsible for managing
SAC I to initiate a quarterly reporting system of progress under the credit, including a status of
counterpart funds deposited for imports under balance of payments support. Regarding auditing,
the separate accounts for the SAC I were to be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Unfortunately, auditing was delayed and the first audit took place at the end
of 1989, almost 18 months after the first tranche release. A final audit was completed in July
1992.
3.    Tranche Release and Closing
47.   The second tranche review recommended to the Board in December 1988 that the release
of some of the funds under IDA and African Facility Credit was merited by the progress made
on the macroeconomic front. But because less than satisfactory progress had been made on the
administrative reform measures (specifically on the reform of the civil service and of the cocoa
export tax system) and because additional time was needed to complete the public enterprise study



- 13 -
to implement the related administrative reforms, the tranche review recommended that the
original tranching be modified to include a third tranche. The new second tranche was for SDR
2 million and the third tranche for SDR 1.9 million. On this basis, the second tranche conditions
were considered met and the third tranche would be met once the administrative reform measures
were implemented and assuming continued satisfactory progress on the structural adjustment
program.  The second tranche was released in January 1989.  The third tranche review
recommended to the Board on July 1989 the release of the third tranche on the basis of
substantial progress made in meeting the tranche release conditions for the Credit's
structural/administrative reform measures.
48.   The original closing date for the credits was March 31, 1989. In February 1990 the
closing date was extended for the second time by one year to March 31, 1991 because of initial
delays in signing and declaring the credits effective. The second tranche was released in
December 1988; the third tranche in June 1989. The delays in start up and subsequently in
splitting the second tranche into two, as well as the weak administration for foreign exchange by
the BNSTP, meant that disbursements lagged. The closing date was extended by a further year
to March 31, 1992 to allow remaining funds to be disbursed.
C.    IDA Performance
49.   IDA gave high priority to SAC I. During the course of supervision missions, emphasis
was placed on macroeconomic issues, especially the exchange rate framework and fiscal
discipline, as well as institutional issues. To familiarize civil service staff in Sao Tome and
Principe with the SAP, a joint Government/Bank/Fund seminar was conducted in November
1988. An audience of an estimated 150 staff participated in a question and answer session lasting
four hours. The purpose of the seminar was to familiarize the civil servants with the objectives
and implications of the SAP. In early 1989, a Joint Bank/Fund mission joined with the
government in successfully concluding negotiations on the Policy Framework Paper (PFP).
D.    Borrower Performance
50.   The Government placed high priority on SAC I, and Government ownership was
significant. The Government gave greater priority, however, to the national elections over the
SAP during the period of political transition. Especially noteworthy is the continued commitment
to the SAP following the political transition in 1991. The shortfalls in loan performance can be
attributed to gaps in commitment for selected reform program elements such as civil service
streamlining. In other instances, shortfalls can be attributed to insufficient capacity rather than
a reluctance to move forward. External factors, namely the decline in cocoa prices, contributed
to shortfalls in Government revenue and an inability to meet deficit reduction targets. In
recognition of the Government's commitment to reform, continued support of the international
community was evidenced. The Round Table Conference conducted in February 1989 was a
forum in which international donors pledged their commitment to financial assistance to help
close the balance of payments gap.



- 14 -
6. ASSESSMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
51.   Under SAC I, STP made significant progress in some important areas of the reform
program. During this period, the Government focussed mainly on stabilization measures to
correct macroeconomic distortions, and there was movement from a centrally planned to an open
economy with a market orientation. Notwithstanding key changes in the Government's economic
team in early 1988 and again in January 1989 that delayed implementation of the macroeconomic
program, a series of measures introduced in mid-1988 and reinforced in 1989 kept the overall
program on track. This occurred despite a sharp decline in the international cocoa price and a
deterioration in the country's terms of trade.
52.   The Government successfully reduced the overvaluation of the domestic currency through
a more flexible exchange rate policy. It also achieved some progress in controlling the fiscal
deficit which contributed to slowing down credit expansion and improving price stability in the
economy. Trade liberalization has improved the incentives for production and export. Import and
export administrative procedures have been simplified. The dismantling of price controls and the
elimination of all subsidies on imported foodstuffs and petroleum products is notable. Private
and public enterprises are allowed to export and import all products directly, with the exception
of petroleum products which are imported under a bilateral agreement with Angola.
53.   In 1990, however, the program was not consistently pursued in part because of upcoming
elections. By end-1990 at the completion of the program, most of the macroeconomic targets and
objectives remained largely unmet. Also, structural reforms began to fall behind schedule. In
1991, the economic and financial situation showed further signs of deterioration, as the
adjustment policies that were to have been implemented in the latter part of 1990 and 1991 were
postponed because of national elections held in early 1991. Subsequently, with the peaceful
transition to a multi-party democracy in early 1991, more concerted implementation of the
program has resumed and the macroeconomic situation has stabilized.
A.    Administrative Capacity
54.   The objectives of the program were very ambitious in relation to the Government's
administrative capacity. Outstanding measures associated with institutional reforms, namely in
the civil service, public enterprises and the tax system suffered from a lack of adequate and
timely technical assistance and studies. In retrospect, the relatively weak administrative capacity
suggests that the timetable for the institutional reforms was too short and the program was too
ambitious.
55.   Lessons Learned. The program's primary risk which was articulated at the outset,
pertaining to the limited administrative capacity in the public sector to make decisions and
implement the proposed reforms therefore, proved important. Further, the limited experience
of the Government which has been dealing with a very complex and ambitious agenda in a
difficult economic environment, coupled with limited political support, has rendered the tasks to
be quite challenging. Structural reforms require not only the analytical capacity to propose major
changes, but also the capacity to implement them. Implementation plans need to develop in
relation to the capacity of the agencies undertaking reform.



- 15 -
B.    Consistency in Implementation
56.   The experience of Sao Tome and Principe illustrates the importance of consistency in
implementation. The adjustment process initially proceeded well, but implementation was
sidetracked. Much less time was devoted to the program than was necessary and hence,
administrative capacity was exacerbated by the need to attend to the political transition. The
situation was further exacerbated by foreign exchange constraints, precipitated by sharply falling
world market prices for cocoa, growing debt service obligations, and additional spending on
housing that was not included in the approved public investment program.
57.   Lessons Learned. The appropriate timing of implementation of a complex set of reforms
is an essential ingredient of success. If adjustment proceeds from the outset but is deterred
because of external and internal circumstances, important gains may be diminished. It should not
be unexpected that implementation would be delayed by transitions in the political order. To the
extent that such transitions are known during the course of program design, it is important to
build these considerations into implementation establishing timetables and conditions of
effectiveness. In such cases, priorities on several strategic interventions would recognize the
impact of such events as well as the scarcity of implementation capacity.
C.    Risks
58.    One of the main vulnerabilities of the project was its linkage with cocoa prices. Certainly
the structure of agriculture production in which cocoa was and continues to be the main area of
comparative advantage suggests that the cocoa sector be bolstered as part of an adjustment
program. The extensive reliance on cocoa export revenues as a means of financing the public
sector indicates the precariousness of the economy generally, as well as the tenuousness of efforts
that build on an uncertain and vulnerable foundation
59.   Lessons Learned. Adjustment programs need to build on a country's strengths and given
that cocoa is a product for which Sao Tome and Principe is well-known suggests that it was
appropriate to focus on this subsector in an adjustment program. Simultaneously, however, it
is also well-known that reliance on a single commodity for the sustenance of the economy can
jeopardize adjustment efforts. Hence, to the extent that agricultural diversification strategies can
be built in to reform programs, it would ameliorate -- admittedly over time - the precariousness
of the economy.
D.    Flexibility in Tranching
60.   The experience of Sao Tome and Principe illustrates the need for flexibility in modifying
initial tranching conditions and thereby accommodating local circumstances. Two factors were
important in the Government's performance in the adjustment program. First, the international
price of cocoa, the main source of export revenues, dropped by 25 percent from mid-1987 to
mid-1988. This decline led to a critical shortage for foreign exchange which would preclude the
ability to finance a minimum level of imports. Without the minimal level of imports, the
Government's ability to maintain its commitment to the reform program would have been
severely constrained.
61.   Given the progress that was demonstrated in terms of the macroeconomic measures that
had been implemented, the credit's original tranching specifications were modified. But also,



- 16 -
there was some concern about delays in the implementation of the institutional reforms as well
as the strength of macroeconomic performance that suggested the need to split the second tranche.
The third tranche release was  conditioned on the implementation of the outstanding
administrative measures and continued satisfactory progress on the macroeconomic side.
62.   Lessons Learned.  The Bank's strategy for supervising loan progress needs to be
adaptive and flexible in the context of changes in internal and external circumstances. In this
case, the third tranche was created to acknowledge the progress made and to permit additional
progress in those areas that lagged behind at the time of the release of the second tranche.



- 17 -
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE I/
Report on the First Structural Adjustment and Special African Facility Credit, CR-1825 and
A-29-STP.
The First Structural Adjustment Credit, for US$7 million equivalent, was signed in June
1987, its object being to support the economic recovery program.
The third tranche of the credit was disbursed not in March 1989 as originally planned but
slightly behind schedule in June 1989, as a result of the significant progress achieved.
Given that the country's weak administrative capacity had been identified as a serious
potential obstacle to timely implementation of the SAC, it must be acknowledged that appropriate
measures were not taken to reduce this risk; the effects of the situation are still being felt today.
Large sums were spent on financing foreign technical assistance and especially on the preparation
of studies, which the Government did not utilize as well as it might have done. We believe that
in the future the World Bank should play a larger role in these institutional issues; in other
words, it should help the Government to identify areas in which training could improve the
implementation of the SAC, and propose a schedule as part of the measures in the economic
policy matrix. It should be emphasized that the Government's institutional capacity is still the
Achilles heel of the country.
As regards structural reform and the expansion of export products, it would seem, after
a review of the Agricultural Enterprises Rehabilitation Project, that the said project was not
adequately appraised with regard to the difficulties of predicting the international price of a
product like cocoa and applying this to Sao Tome. One of the main errors of the program was
its focus on cocoa production, which led to an emphasis on retaining an outdated structure of
agricultural production, based on plantations. In our view, the project ought to have had other
components, such as food production for sale in the region and other, higher-yield export
products.
As already noted, the project should also have made provision for the gradual
transformation of the structure of agricultural production, based on family production parcels;
the new land distribution project is going some way to remedying this defect.
As regards the process of reforming the public enterprises, we believe that only one side
really got involved in this. A process was devised without any proper institutional basis or
operational framework, and this was partly responsible for the constant postponement of the
implementation of plans to privatize, liquidate or rehabilitate public enterprises.
However, past experience is being used to reshape this process, which now has a
legitimate institutional basis and a largely defined operating framework. It is expected that
specific actions will be undertaken in this area in the future.
In brief, the greatest achievement of the First Structural Adjustment Program was of a
psychological nature, in that it convinced the authorities that there were no alternatives to
adjustment if the country wished to achieve sustained growth. Another gain was the experience
acquired, which made it possible to prepare a more realistic Second Program.
3/ Received from Elsa Cardoso, the Coordinator, Studies and Advisory Office, Sao Tome, February 10, 1993.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. BASIC CREDIT DATA
1. Project Timetable
Initiating Project Brief                                            February 1987
Initiating Memorandum                                               February 1987
Letter of Development Policy                                            May 1987
Negotiations                                                            May 1987
Board Approval                                                          June 1987
Credit Agreement                                                   September 1987
Effectiveness                                                        January 1988
Original Credit Closing                                               March 1989
Actual Credit Closing                                                 March 1992
Last Disbursement                                                       June 1992
2. Credit Disbursements (Cumulative)
(US$ Million)
FY87         FY88         FY89          FY90          FY91
(i)    Planned         2.03         4.56          6.84         7.01
(ii)   Actual            0          2.03          5.48         6.94          7.01
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)  0          44.5          80.1         99.0



- 19 -
3. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(including African Facility)
FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89  FY90 FY91  FY92  FY93
LENA                         22.8
LENN                         11.3
LENP                         18.6
SPN                                  1.6  43.6  39.4  11.7   7.4   0.9
PCR                                                                   3.5   8.0
TOTAL STAFF INPUTS: 168.8
B. Mission Data
(Including African Facilities)
No. of       No. of         Staff
Year        weeks       persons       weeks
Appraisal                    1987         2.85            8          22.8
Supervision I                1988         3.11            4          42.6
Supervision II               1989         3.94            2          39.4
Supervision III              1990         3.90            3          11.7
Supervision IV               1991         1.85            4           7.4
Supervision V                1992         0.90            2           0.9
Completion                   1992         3.50            2           3.5



TABLE 2 - MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Orie0    taget
Area               SAC I: Objectives                                                                    date      Objectives met ad  date
1- Exchange rate  a)  Devalue the dobra from 45.25 to 100 (54%) to the SDR.                       May 31 1987   Successive devaluation of the STP dobra, coupled with improved prce
policy         b) Satisfactory progreaa in the impiementation of an exchange rate reforn.      Mid-1988       stability led to a real depreciation of about 75 % between mid 1987 and
c)  Establish a Domestic Price Index,                                                          end 1988.
2- Trade Poticy    a)  Allow the private ector to compete with ECOMEX for all impors and exporta  May 31, 1988   Government elimninated ECOMEX's import monopoly power except for
(except in 6 main commnodities).                                                           six basic commodities. Import licensing system determnines foreign
b)  Prepare an 1987 foreign exchange budget in coordination with IDA and IMF.  May 31, 1987   exchange accesa and bilateral barter arrangements continue.
c)  Limit ECOMIN scope of activity to the ale of food aid an food security stock
management.                                                                May 31, 1987
d)  Produce an audit of the financial situation of ECOMEX.                     March 1988
e)  Present an action plan to restructure ECOMEX's arcounts.                   Mid-1988
0  Convert all quantitative taxes into ad-valorem rates.                       March 19S8
g) Remove all quantitative impoon restrictions.                                Mid-1988
3- Fcl policy    a)  Reduce current account fil deficit to Db 85 million.                         1987            Deficit improved from 10% of GDP in 1986 to 6% in 198S, but
b) Increase all import duties in proportion to the devaluation.                May 31, 1987   deteriorated in 1989 to more than 8 %. Gov needs to improve revenues
c)  Increase all sales taxes by 15%.                                           May 31, 1987   and maintain tight lid on current pending. In 1989 there were price
d) Increae airport fees in foreign exchange termrs.                            May 31, 1987  increases for export conunodities, 6 import products, petroleum
e)  Increae the excise tax on petroleum products in proportion to the devaluation.  May 31, 1987   products, electricity and telecommunications. Taxes on alcoholic
f)  Limit overall public ector wage and alary inremase by 10% on average over the             beverages and tobacco were raised 50 %.
1986 level.                                                                1987           A fiscal program for 1989, including a public sector investment program
g) Reduce foreign travel expenditure by half in foreign exchange terms,                       was approved. 
h)  Limit unclassified expenditures from the Fundos Centrais to Db 81 million on an           The Gov. has completed a civil ervice census and has launched a
annual basis.                                                                             UNDP-sponsored program to strengthen the Administrative Reform
i)  Eliminate transfers and credit to lms-making public enterprises.                           Program.
)  Reduce the size of civil service according to a plan agreed.
k)  Establish targets for the current accounts deficits in 1988 in consultation with the    May 31, 1987
IMF and IDA.
I)  Inplement an action plan to reduce the size of the civil ervice.           Mid-1988
4- Public         a)  Agreement on a list of priority public enterprises to prepare a study for their             By '89 the Gov. has taken the following actions: i) initiated phase action
Enterptises        restructuring.                                                                             program to reform PE's and adopted recommendations on a) privatized
b)  Adoption of a plan to close or privatize the enterprises according to the rerults of    Mid-1988  the beer and brick companies; b) restructured the publishing company;
the study.                                                                                c) liquidated the poultry company and the two trade enterprises;
ii)created public Enterprise Reformn Unit to implement studies'
recommendations; iii) adopted action plan for next phase of reform
program.



TABLE 2 - MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Oiga taret
Arem               SAC I: Objectives                                                                    date      Objectives met and date
5- Monetary policy a)  Limit domestic credit to Db 401 million.                                   1987            Dramatic reduction in rate of growth of credit from 28% in 1987 to
b)  Use of domestic counterpart funds of non-grant non-project aid to reduce BNSTP    Mid-1988  12% in 1988 and about 10% in 1989. Measured inflation moved from
claims on the Central Gov. over the adjustment period.                                     25% in 1987 to 40% in 1988 and approximately 36% in 1989.
c)  Review the interest rate structure to achieve positive real interest rates.                The Gov. has agreed to initiate a study to eparate the functions of
d)  Undertake a study to separte the functions of the Central Bank from its commercial 1988    commercial and central banking within BNSTP. The Govy. also adjusted
bank functions.                                                                           the interest rate structure in 1987 which became positive for a period.
e)  Adopt a credit target.                                                                    Interest rates were reduced in 1988 and rates became negative through
end-1989.
6- Investment      a)  Agree with IDA and ADF on the size and composition of the 1987 PIP.        May 31, 1987   Size and composition have been scaled down, but projects continue to be
policy         b) Request IDA and ADF for approval to implement projects not included in the PIP              approved outside established PIP process. There is an urgent need to
whose total coss exceed USS500,000.                                                       improve both evaluation and monitoring of the PIP.
c)  Carry out only projects which meet an acceptable rate of return (10%).
d) Agree with IDA and ADF on the size and composition of the 1988 PIP.
7- Pricing policy   a)  Eliminate price controls for all domestically produced and imported goods, except         The Government eliminated price subsidies for all essential commodities
for rice, beans, milk, ugar, wheat, flour and cooking oil.                                and has implemented an action plan to achieve full operating cost
b)  Establish a methodology for the adjustment of prices of controlled goods.                  recovery for fuels.
c)  take initial action for the gradual increase of the prices of controlled goods.  March 1988
d) Adjust the rtail prices of petroleum products and electricity.              Mid-198S
8- Cocoa sector    a)  Allow exporting enterprises to maintain 30% of their export proceeds in special  May 31, 1987   The Govemrnent has approved an action plan to reform the cocoa export
Central Bank accounts abroad for the purchase of the necessary productive inputs.         tax system. It will also implement some measures to improve the cocoa
b) Settle existing wage arrears owed to workers.                                               marketing and distribution system.
c)  Base wages on a combination of fixed wages and productivity bonuses.       May 31, 1987
d)  Introduce payment by piecework wherever possible.                          May 31, 1987
e) Increase the fixed portion of wages by 30% over the 1986 level for the field
workers and team leaders.                                                  May 31, 1987
f)  Present a plan for the phase ettlemnent of the internal debt of the cocoa state  End of 1987
enterprises.
g)  Plan to reform the cocoa export tax system.                                End of 1987
9- Energy Policy   a)  Agree with IDA on the contracting of the technical assistance needed for the long    May 31, 1987
term rehabilitation of the power sector.
b) Contract the needed technical assistance for EMAE.                          End of 1987
c)  Agreement on a new tariff for fuels, electricity and water.                Mid-1988
10- Foodcrop       a)  Initiate a foodcrop diversification study included the cocoa rehabilitation project.    End of 1987    Government has distributed about 8,000 ha between 1985-88, over half
producers      b) Extend the measures related to foodcrop production to the renaining agricultural            of which became smallholder plots.
enterprises.                                                               Mid-1988
c)  Present a plan with external technical assistance for the land distribution.  March 1988



- 22 -
TABLE 3. KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Indicator                   1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
GDP g.r.                     8.6   0.9  -2.3   1.9   1.6   2.5   1.5      3
GDY/CAP g.r.                -0.1    -1  4.9   0.2  -4.1  -2.5   0.5   0.6
Total Consump./GDP         111.0 116.8 110.4 107.0 111.9 121.0 125.0 127.0
CPI g.r.                   N.A.  N.A    25    40    35    30    38   40
Debt Service L/              5.1   4.5   5.4   4.9   5.0   6.7  14.0  16.8
DS/XGS La                   17.2  61.8  93.9  54.6  92.6  241   133   125
DS/GDP                       8.2   6.5   9.7  10.1  10.9  14.2   24  21.2
Gross Invest./GDP           13.2  13.6  15.3  19.8  26.4  27.4   28   30
Gov. Revenue/GDP            25.8  24.5  26.1  25.6  21.8  20.1  19.9  22.1
Gov. Expendit./GDP          36.9   58  53.2  54.9  78.5  81.6  77.5  92.9
Export g.r.                -30.2  24.5  -23.4  10.8  -45.7  -25.7  24.6  -0.9
Imports g.r.                -13.8  -17.8  -19.2  15.6  27.1  -20.5  15.2  5.8
Current Acct. US$ (millions) L  -18.5  -10.2  -12.7  -16.6  -18.6 -21.3  -18.6 -16.7
Current Acct./GDP Ld       -29.8  -33.7  -27.9  -28.8  -48.3  44.6  -57.7 -70.2
a After rescheduling and refinancing.
& Including official transfers.
/c Before rescheduling in US$ million.



