Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 182 5 STP
                       Development Credit Agreement
                      (Structural Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
               DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated September 2, 1987
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 182 5 STP
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 2, 1987, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAOTOME AND 
PRINCIPE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC
IATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 15, 1987
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution;
      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the Association, acting as
Administrator of a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African
Facility) established by its Executive Directors by Resolution No. IDA 85-1
of May 21, 1985, to provide additional assistance in support of the Program,
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Association as Administrator of the African Facility (the African Facility
Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to two million three hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000);
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from African Development Fund
(ADF) a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent to seven million Fund
Units of Accounts (FUA 7,000,000) to provide additional assistance in
support of the Program, on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and ADF; and
      (D)   on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Association has
Page  2
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower
by making the Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions
      of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
      the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
      Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
      ref erred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
      obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International Trade
Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in Commodity  Indexes
for the Standard International Trade Classification, Revised, Statistical
Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2 (1981);
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "BNSTP" means National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe, the
Borrower's Central Bank; and
      (d)   "ECOMEX" means the Borrower's Empresa de Comercio Externo, a
state enterprise entrusted with the import and export of goods in the
Borrower's territory.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million one
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and
maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1989 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1
commencing November 1, 1997 and ending May 1, 2037. Each installment  to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. (a) The Director de Financas of the Borrower's Ministerio das 
Financas (the Director de Financas) is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower
hereby entrusts Director de Financas with responsibility for the preparation
of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the collection of the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support
of such applications.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  4
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE IV
                                 Remedies
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General, Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of the African Facility Credit or the ADF Loan made
                        to the Borrower in support of the Program shall
                        have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                        whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                        agreement, providing therefor; or
                  (B)   the African Facility Credit or the ADF Loan shall
                        have become due and payable prior to the agreed
                        maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that:
Page  5
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                        prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                        Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                        such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds required during the execution of the
                        Program are available to the Borrower from other
                        sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
                        obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event
specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Association
shall be satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio das Financas
            Sao Tome
            Republica Democratica de
              Sao Tome e Principe
                                          Telex:
                                                225 MIPLANO STP
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME
                        AND PRINCIPE
                  By /s/ Joaquim Rafael Branco
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /a/ Caio K. Koch-Weser
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule,
the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the
Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
sub-groups:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      112           -               Alcoholic beverages
      121           -               Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco refuse
      122           -               Tobacco, manufactured
      667           -               Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                    stones, unworked or worked
      688           -               Uranium depleted in U235 and thorium,
                                    and their alloys, unwrought or
                                    wrought, and articles therefor,
                                    n.e.s.; waste and scrap of uranium
                                    depleted in U235 and of thorium
      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
                                    n.e.s.
      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                    group metals (except watches and watch
                                    cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                    silversmiths' wares (including set
                                    gems)
       -          971.0             Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                    ores and concentrates)
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
African Facility Credit in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 700,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1987;
Page  7
      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less
than $10,000 equivalent;
      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption; and
      (g)   expenditures out of the proceeds of the Credit and the African
Facility Credit in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 1,775,000
for foodstuffs.
3.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into
to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Credit and the African Facility Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the African Facility Credit Account and the total amount
of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000,
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
      (a)   with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program; and
      (b)   that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have
been taken and are satisfactory to the Association.
4.    If, after such exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied
and this situation shall not be rectified by the Borrower within 90 days
after notice thereof by the Association, then the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel the amount of the Credit unwithdrawn from the Credit
Account or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                                Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a timely
      manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising
      invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to
      apply for prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be
      placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
      Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the following
      forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication, Development
                  Forum, Business Edition; or
            (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
                  journal of wide international circulation; or
            (iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
                  territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
                  potential suppliers of the goods required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
Guidelines:
Page  8
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
      bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
      international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$250,000 each shall be awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from
a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 therefor).
3.    Goods to be procured under contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $50,000 (but not exceeding an aggregate amount of $1,000,000)
may be purchased directly from suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, when
a demonstrated urgency so requires.
4.    Goods which are proprietary items may be purchased directly from
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids
and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
6.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
7.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Schedule,
where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the
Special Account, the copies of such contract or the documentation and the
information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 5 or paragraph 6 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall
be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
8.    The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 shall not apply
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                  Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                      of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower shall have achieved progress in the following are as:
      (a)   the implementation of its exchange rate reform;
      (b)   the implementation of its action plan to reduce the
size of the civil service;
      (c)   the settlement of debt owed by the public sector enterprises to
BNSTP and the Borrower; and
      (d)   the implementation of a gradual increase of the price of rice,
beans, milk, sugar, wheat flour and cooking oil;
2.    The Borrower shall have approved:
      (a)   a fiscal program and credit targets, including a public
investment program, for 1988;
Page  9
      (b)   an action plan to restructure, privatize and close public sector
enterprises;
      (c)   an action plan for setting up a new tariff structure for fuels,
electricity and water in order to achieve full cost recovery;
      (d)   an action plan to restructure ECOMEX accounts in order to settle
past debt; and
      (e)   an action plan for the reform of the cocoa export tax system.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the Program
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may
be made as follows:
      (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been Justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for
which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or
at the time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association
when either of the following situations first arises:
            (i)   the Association shall have determined that all further
                  withdrawals can be made by the Borrower directly from the
                  Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
                  Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
                  Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
            (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the
                  amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
                  by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
Page  10
                  General Conditions with respect to the Program, shall be
                  equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
                  Authorized Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in
any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
