0FFOCAL          -Co                S,
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-29 STP
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                              , 1987


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-29 STP
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                .2            , 1987, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has received a letter dated May 15,
1987 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objec-
tives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Administrator in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution and the Administra-
tor has determined that such assistance would be in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Program and, by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
IDA  (the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equi-
valent to three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,100,000) (the IDA Credit);
(D)  the Borrower intends to contract from African Develop-
ment Fund a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent to seven
million Fund Units of Account (FUA 7,000,000) to provide addi-
tional assistance in the support of the Program, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADF Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and ADF; and
WHEREAS on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the
Administrator has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the African Facility
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Deve-
lopment Credit Agreements" of the International Development
Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit"
and "Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African
Facility   Credit"  and   "African   Facility   Credit  Account",
respectively;
(c) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
African Facility Credit Agreement.";
(d) the last sentence of Section 3.02 and the second
sentence of Section 5.01 are deleted;
(e) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity; and
(f) Section 9.0,6 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Administrator, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in
the Preamble to the African Facility Credit Agree-tent, the


﻿-3-
performance by the Borrower and the Administrator of their
respective obligations under the African Facility Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
African Facility Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are
those prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for
countries whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to
those Articles;
(b)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the Program,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(c) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published
in Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2
(1981);
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(e) "BNSTP" means National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe,
the Borrower's Central Bank; and
(t) "ECOMEX" means the Borrower's Empresa de Comercio
Externo, a 3tate enterprise entrusted with the import and export
of goods in the Borrower's territory.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in the territories of: (i) any Part II
member of IDA; (ii) any country designated by the Administrator
as meeting the provisions set forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and
(iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1989
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of


﻿-5 -
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1997
and ending May 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Director de Finangas of the Borrower's
Ministerio das Finangas (the Director de Finangas) is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Director de Finanqas with respon-
sibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under
the African Facility Credit and for the collection of the docu-
ments and other evidence to be furnished to the Administrator in
support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views


﻿-6-
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the
eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in ac,ordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Admini-
strator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
African Facility Credit Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Administrator's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the IDA Credit made to the Bor-
rower in support of the Program shall have


﻿-8-
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the Development Credit Agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) the IDA Credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds required during the execution
of the Program are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent  with   the  obligations   of  the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Admin-
istrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in
such notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio das Finangas
S?(o Tome
Repiica DemocrAtica de
Sao Tome e Prfncipe
Telex:
225 MIPLANO STP
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME
AND PRINCIPE
By 1/1  /Ov       9     &/Zxp    /3/1-amC.'
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By            O   k     '
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Adminiistrator shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -              Alcoholic beverages
121         -              Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -              Tobacco, manufactured
667         -              Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -              Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7             Nuclear   reactors, and   parts
thereof, n.e.s.


﻿- 12 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
897      897.3              Jewelry   of  gold,  silver  or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths'   or  silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971.0            Gold, non-monetary   (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals out of the proceeds of
the African Facility Credit and the IDA Credit in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 700,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 1987;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit and the IDA Credit in excess of an aggregate
amount equivalent to SDR 1,775,000 for foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit and the IDA Credit withdrawn from the
African Facility Credit Account and the Credit Account and the


﻿- 13 -
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equiva-
lent of SDR 1,500,000, unless the Administrator shall be satis-
fied, after an exchange of views as described in Section ,.01 of
this Agreement:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Adminis-
trator.
4.   If, after such exchange of views, the Administrator is not
so satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Administra-
tor, then the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the amount of the African Facility Credit unwithdrawn
from the African Facility Credit Account or any part thereof.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines). For purposes
of the Afripan Facility Credit Agreement, all references in the
Guidelines to the Bank and to loans shall be deemed to be
references to the Administrator and to the African Facility
Credit, respectively.
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Development
Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an   advertisement   in  a  newspaper,   periodical  or
technical journal of wide international circulation; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative,- bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."


﻿- 15 -
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $250,000 each shall be awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the proce-
dures set forth in Section I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Good: to be procured under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $50,000 but not exceeding an aggregate
amount of $1,000,000 may be purchased directly from suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, when a demonstrated urgency so
requires.
4.   Goods which are proprietary items may be purchased directly
from suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1
of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administra-
tor, prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect of such contracts, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the adver-
tising and tendering procedures followed and such other informa-
tion as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
6.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2,
3 and 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Administrator, prior to the submission to the Administrator of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the African
Facility Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Administrator may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
7.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 or para-
graph 6 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Administrator as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
8.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall have achieved progress in the following
areas:
(a) the implementation of its exchange rate reform;
(b) the implementation of its action plan to reduce the
size of the civil service;
(c) the settlement of debt owed by the public sector
enterprises to BNSTP and the Borrower; and
(d) the implementation of a gradual increase of the price
of rice, beans, milk, sugar, wheat flour and cooking oil;
2.   The Borrower shall have approved:
(a) a fiscal program and credit targets, including a public
investment program, for 1988;
(b) an action plan to restructure, privatize and close
public sector enterprises;
(c) an action plan for setting up a new tariff etructure
for fuels, electricity and water in order to achieve full cost
recovery.
(d) an action plan to restructure ECOMEX accounts in order
to settle past debt; and
(e) an action plan for the reform of the cocoa export tax
system.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the African Facility Credit in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the African Facility
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account he been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to re-
plenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or.requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw fropp the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator re-
quests for replenishment of the Special Account at such inter-
vals as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 19 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the African
Facility Credit, minus the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Admin-
istrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Program, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African Faci-
lity Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of


﻿- 20 -
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


