RETURN TO                                               RE$TRICTED
REPORTS DESK ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ESRITE
REPORTS   DESKFIL                                    Repart No.  PP-4b
LONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
POPULATION PROJECT
T UNISIA
March 3, 1971
Population Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Dinar 1     -    US$ 1.905
US$ 1       *    Dinar 0.525
MEASUFES
1 m2             1.20 sq. yd. or
10.76 sq. ft.
1 Km2            0.38 sq. miles
2.47 acres
GLOSSARY
A. Abbreviations
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
IUD         Intrauterine Device
KAP         Family Planning - Knowledge, Attitude- and Practice Study
MCH-FP      Maternal and Child Health ar.d Family Planning
RMC         Rural Maternity Center
SIDA        Swedish International Developnent Authority
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WHO         World Health Organization
B.  Definitions
Maternity Hospital:
Hospital providing obstetric and gynecologic services including maternity
beds, prenatal and postnatal care facilities.
Rural Maternity Center:
Clinic in a rural area to provide beds and a delivery roon for
uncomplicated cases, and to provide prenatal and postnatal care, child welfare
and family planning services.
Maternal and Child Health Center:
Health Clinic which provides prenatal and postnatal care, child welfare
and family planning services.
Rural Dispensary:
Health center in the rural areas providing basic elementary medical care
through nurse-assistants.



TUNISIA
APPRAISAL 0F A POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                 i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION .     .....................................
Il. THE POPULATION PROBLEM AND GOVERNMENT POLICY .....
A.   The Population Problem .....................       1
B.   Family Planning and Public Policy    ..........    2
III. THE FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM ......................       3
A.   Evaluation and Present Organization ........       3
B.   The Present Program ...................            5
IV.    THE  PROJECT   ......................................  7
A.   Project  Components   .........................    8
B.   Cost  Estimates   .............................   il
V.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT ..............         13
VI.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .....    .....................  15
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .............................          17
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission that visited
Tunisia from May 19-June 2, 1970. It was headed by Mr. D. Miller and
included Mr. N. Faltas, Mr. G. Bury (Consultant), and Dr. R. Castadot
(Consultant). Mr. Faltas re-visited Tunisia from July 25-August 7, 1970.
A mission, composed of Messrs. R. Springuel, head of mission, S. El Fishawy,
S. Julin, and L. Currat visited Tunisia December 2-9, 1970. This report
was prepared by Messrs. G. Zaidan, D. Miller, N. Faltas, and L. Currat.
Mr. G. Baldwin lent his assistance to the group.



-2-
ANNEXES
1    -   ADMINISTRATION OF PROJECT AND PROGRAM
1-1 Duties and Responsibilities of the Project Administrator
1-2 Duties and Responsibi'lities of the Project Architect and
the Project AccountantL
1-3 Family Planning Progriam - Central Administration
1-4 Family Planning Program - Regional Administration
2    -   DEMOGRAPHIC DATA
2-1 Population Projection--Four Series (1967-1985)
2-2 Estimate of the Natural Rate of Population Increase for the
Intercensal Period (1956-1966)
2-3 Projected Number of Women in the Age Groups 15-49 and 20-44
(1967-1974)
3    -   FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM PERFORMANCE
3-1 Provision of Family Planning Services--Number of Facilities by
Province (1969)
3-2 Maternity Facilities br Health Region--Annual Number of
Deliveries per Bed and Average Stay (1968)
3-3 Family Planning Consultations in MCH Centers (1969)
3-4 Commercial Sales of Contraceptives (1967-1969)
3-5 Distribution by Sanitary Region of Postpartum Educators,
Maternity Beds, and Average Monthly Deliveries (1969)
3-6 Family Planning Acceptances by Method and by Month (1969)
3-7 Postpartum Family Planning Program Coverage, Acceptor
Motivation, and Rate of Acceptance by Sanitary Region (1969)
3-8 Maternity Facilities Medical Activity Data (1969)
4    -   FAMILY PLANNING BUDGET AND PERSONNEL
4-1 Budgeted Personnel Positions (1970)
4-2 Preliminary Projection of Family Planning Personnel (1970-1974)
4-3 Actual Disbursements for Family Planning Operating
Expenditures (1968)
4-4 Actual Disbursements for Famlly Planning Operating
Expenditures (1969)
4-5 Actual and Projected Family Planning Expenditures (1969-1974)
4-6 Family Planning Dinar Budget (1970)
4-7 Estimate of Operating Costs for Project Facilities



-3-
5    -   PRJJECT PARAMETERS
5-1 Demographic Data on Existing and Proposed MCH Centers
5-2 Number of Medical and Paramedical Positions (1970)
5-3 Projection of Paramedical School Graduates (1970-1973)
5-4 Paramedical Personnel Needs (1970)
5-5 Need and Utilization of Obstetrical Beds by Province (1969)
5-6 Graduates in Midwifery and Personnel Needs for the
Health Ministry and IDA Project (1970-1980)
5-7 Location of Facilities
5-8 Project Capital Cost Estimates
5-9 Contingency Allowance
5-10      Family Planning Project Implementation Schedule
6    -   THE DEMOGRAPHIC EFFECT OF THE PROJECT
7    -   DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT FACILITIES
MAPS
1   Proportional Distribution of Population
2   Maternity and MCH Network
3   MCH Network Utilization






TUNISIA
BASIC DATA
Are a                                                           164,000 km2
Population (1970)                                               5.2 million
Urban Population                                              2.0 million
Annual Rate of Growth (1967-70)                               2.8%
Crude Birth Rate (per 1000 population)                        44
Crude Death Rate (per 1000 population)                        16
Women in Age Group 15-49                                       1,079,000
General Fertility Rate                                        212
(number of births per 1000 women aged 15-49)
Infant Mortality                                              110
(number of deaths of infants under 1 year of
age per 1000 live births)
Gross Domestic Product (1970)                                   US$1, 065 million
(at current factor costs)
GDP per capita                                                US$  205
GDP Annual Rate of Growth (1965-70)                           3.6%
(1966 prices)
Industrial Origin of GDP (1966 prices)
Agriculture                                                 14.3%
Mining, Water and Power                                      8.5%
Manufacturing                                               15.2%
Construction and Public Works                                8.8%
Transport and Communication                                  8.6%
Services                                                    25.3%
Government Wages and Salaries                               19.3%
External Debt
Public Debt Outstanding (1969)                                US$700 million
Bank/IDA Position (US$ million)                                 December 31, 1970
Bank loans (net of cancellations)                                   70.1
Repayments                                                           2.3
Total loans outstanding                                             67.8
IDA credits (net of cancellations)                                 40. o
Total Bank/IDA                                                     107.B






TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       In 1964 the Government of Tunisia initiated a limited, experiment-
al program of voluntary family planning operated through the Ministry of
Health. Two years later the Government expanded the initial experiment into
a national program and established within the Ministry a new Directorate to
provide education, service, and evaluation in family planning.
iM.      The project would strengthen the Government's program through a
series of measures designed to increase substantially the number of acceptors
of family planning and to retain more of them as practitioners for longer pe-
riods of time.
The Project consists of the following:
(a)   the construction and equipment of:
(1) four new maternity hospitals in Tunis, Sousse, Sfax,
and Bizerte, with a total of about 500 beds;
(2) two new Rural Maternity Centers with a total of about
25 beds;
(3) twenty-nine Maternal and Child Health Centers; and
(4) the extension of the Avicenne Paramedical Training
School and its Postgraduate Training Section.
(b)   three technical assistance components:
(1) provision of consultants to design and recommend a
system which would ensure an optimum use of the re-
sources at the disposal of the family planning ser-
vices and to help the Governinent implement the sys-
tem;
(2) provision of experts to assist in teaching at the
Avicenne Paramedical Training School and at its
Postgraduate Training Section and provision of fel-
lowships for training key paramedical personnel;
(3) provision of two external review missions of two to
three experts scheduled for the Fall of 1972 and 1974
to assess the progress and efficiency of the national
famlly planning program.



- ii -
The total cost of the project will be US$7.7 million.
iii.     The present family planning program, after six years of operation,
reaches only about 2.5% of the eligible women in the fertile age group each
year. This poor performance is attributable to:
(a) inadequate staff time given to family planning work as
a result of the present: staffing pattern and organization
of the health services;
(b) overcrowding in the large urban maternity hospitals; and
(c) ineffective family planning work in the MCII centers
because of poor scheduling of family planning services
and inadequate functional design of the centers.
iv.      The project's foreign exchange component is estimated at US$4.8
million which would be met by the IDA credit, except for the part of fellow-
ships and technical assistance costs related to training which may be met by
other agencies. All local currency costs would be met by the Government, ex-
cept for the services of local management consultants.
v.       As a result of the project, the targets of program achievement
by the mid-1970's can be set much higher than recent performance. The
number of consultations with potential acceptors is estimated to rise from
the recent level of approximately 125,000 p.a. to more than 400,000, and
the number of acceptors practicing contraception from just over 21,000 to
more than 76,000 p.a.  Finally, the number of births averted is estimated
to rise from 6,000 p.a. to more than 21,000 p.a.
vi.      A Project Administrator would be appointed within the Ministry of
Health to supervise the project. Contracts for civil works and procurement
of materials, furniture, and equipment would conform to the Bank/IDA guide-
lines on international competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be accorded a preferential margin equal to 15%
of the cif costs of competing imports, or the existing rates of import duty,
whichever is lower.
vii.     The project would have important socio-economic benefits.  These
consist of improved maternal and child health, higher living standards for
families practicing family planning and for the population in general, savings
on the Government budget and an eventual contribution to reducing the rate of
unemployment.
viii.    Subject to the provisions in paragraphs 7.01-7.02, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of 'US$4.8 million.



I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01     A Bank economic mission visiting Tunisia in March-April of 1969
first discussed the possibility of Bank Group assistance for the famlly
planning program. The Minis ter of Planning subsequently requested the Bank
to review the family planning program and to determine whether Bank assis-
tance would be appropriate. This request was confirmed by the Governor for
Tunisia at the Annual Meeting in September 1969.
1.02     An identification mission consisting of Mr. D. Miller (Econoxnist)
from the Bank and Dr. G. Povey (Consultant), visited Tunisia in November
and December 1969.  The mission's recommendations included the prelimi.nary
Identification of a possible Bank project comprising the expansion of three
maternity hospitals in Tunis, Sousse, and Sfax; the construction of several
rural maternity centers with delivery beds (RMC's) and several maternal and
child health centers (MCH's); and the expansion of the paramedical training
school in Tunis.
1.03     An appraisal mission visited the country in May 1970.  It was
headed by Mr. D. Miller, Economist, and included Messrs. N. Faltas, Economist,
G. Bury, Architectural Consultant, and Dr. R. Castadot, Medical ConsuLtant.
Mr. S. Julin lent his assistance to the mission. Mr. N. Paltas revisited
Tunisia in July 1970.  A mission, headed by Mr. R. Springuel, and composed__
of Messrs. S. El Fishawy, S. Julin and L. Currat visited Tunisia in December
1970 to brief the Government on the major aspects of the project.
Il.  IHE POPULATION PROBLEM AND GOVERNMEler POLICY
A. 'The Population Problem
2
2.01     Tunisia, with an area of 164,000 km   had a total population of 5.2
million people in 1970.  Forty-five percent: of these people live in the four
provinces 9f Tunis, Sousse, Sfax, and Bizerte.  Population density averages
100 per km in these northEastern coastal provinces, as opposed to less
than 20 inhabitants per km  in thae southwestern interior regions (Map 1).
The rate of population growth lncreased from less than 2% around 1930
to about 2.3% by 1960.  By 1968 the rat-e of growth had further increased
to 2.8%, with an estimated birthrate of 44 per thousand and a death rate
of 16 per thiousand. Unless the rate of population growth is reduced,
Tunisia will double its population over a period of 25 years, reaching
a level of 10.4 million in 1995. With a high fertility rate and an average
death rate, there is a favorable prospect that reduction in fertility will
be reflected in a reduction in tlhe rate of population growth. Since over
half of the married women are concentrated in 4 of the country's 13 pro-
vinces, the logistics of delivering family planning services are relatively
favorable. The urban/rural distribution of the population by province is
shown in Map I.  Other pertinent demographic data are contained in Annex 2.



- 2 -
2.02     The Tunisian real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 5.5% in
the early 1960's. Due to bad weather and consequently poor harvests in
1966 and 1967, the rate of economic growth was about 3% during the second
Four-Year Plan (1965-68). The target of the third Four-Year Plan (1969-72)
is a 6% growth rate. In 1969 per capita GNP was US$230. During the first
Plan, investments accounted for about one-quarter of GNP and they are ex-
pected to remain close to that level during the present plan. Given the
present rate of population growth and the high capital/output ratio, almost
half the resources invested in the present plan will be necessary to maintain
the per capita income of the population at existing levels.
2.03     Unemployment is a large and growing problem in the country.
Although labor force and emplo, ent statistics are difficult to interpret,
unemployment is probably not le9s than 15% of the labor force, and may
exceed 20%. Thus, in 1968 the number of unemployed was about 270,000.
The problem is particularly severe among rural men (over half of Tunisia's
labor force) and among the youth of the country. The Government has
established special work programs to try to reduce the problem through public
works, and these have benefited a relatively large proportion of the un-
employed. In the long run, hoiwever, the Government looks to its new popu-
lation policy as one way of reducing the economic, social, and budgetary
pressures generated by mounting unemployment.
B. Family Planning_and Public Policy
2.04     The Government recognizes the burden that the rapidly ïncreasing
population is imposing on Tunisian economic growth, thus the third Four-
Year Plan (1969-72) explicitly calls for a reduction in the rate of popu-
lation growth. The Ministry of Planning has turned to voluntary family
planning to improve the economic and social prospects of the country, while
the Ministry of Health has viewed the family planning program as a means of
improving the health of mothers and children. The program has received the
active support of President Bourguiba, the ruling Socialist Destourian
Party, and the National Union of Tunisian Women.
2.05     The launching of the Government's experimental family planning
program in 1964 has not been the only attempt to reduce fertility. In the
same year a law became effective that established 19 as the minimum legal
age of marriage for men and 17 as the minimum legal age for women. At
approximately the same time the Government stopped making social welfare
payments for any child beyond the fourth one.  The family planning program
included provision for free social abortions and tubal ligations, both of
which were performed for women upon request, with necessary safeguards
and explanations, provided they had a minimum of 5 living children.
These positive policy measures are being reinforced by increasing the
educational levels and by continuing the process of female emancipation.



- 3 -
III. THE FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
A.  Evaluation and Present Organization
3.01     An experimental public program vas initiated in 1964 by the
Tunisian Ministry of Health, with financial and technical assistance from
the Ford Foundation and the Population Council. A national nurvey of
knowledge, attitudes, and practice (KAP study) was conducted in the same
year; it indicated that there was a large demand for family planning services.
The Government responded to the study by the institution of a pilot program
under the Ministry of Health; during the period 1964-66, medical and
paramedical personnel were recruited and trained, evaluation procedures
were established, and 30 centers were opened within the health organization.
3.02     The experimental phase was expanded into a national progran :Ln
June 1966 with the addition of mobile teams to the services currently being
provided by the large urban hospitals. But the general lack of adequate
follow-up after initial consultations, the inadequate quality of service,
and the exercise of coercion in some isolated instances, created a popular
backlash which led the Government to temporarily withdraw its original
unqualified political support for the program. This hesitancy has now been
overcome and Government support is again open and strong.
3.03     The third phase of the program began in early 1968 with the reor-
ganization of the Family Planning Services. Family planning activities were
merged with the Maternal and Child Health Services and set up as a separate
directorate within the Ministry of Health. It was during this phase that
USAID first began providing substantial operating funds to family
planning services in Tunisia, thus enabling the expanded program to be imple-
mented.
3.04     In 1969 a large part of the administrative and financial control
of the program was decentralized from the Directorate in the Ministry to
the 16 regional health administrators who became responsible for all health
services in their region. The central Directorate retained control with
regard to personnel (recruitment, training, and assignment to regions) and
overall medical aspects of the program. It did, however, lose control over
personnel utilization after assignment. This division of responsibility be-
tween the regions and the central Directorate weakened the program due to
the possibility of diversion of personnel from family planning to health ac-
tivities. It is desirable that the Directorate of Maternal and Child Health
and Family Planning (MCH-FP Directorate) in the Ministry of Health be re-
stored with the powers necessary to control the administration and budgets
of the MCH and family planning centers (now held by the regional health ad-



- 4 -
ministrators). 1/ The MCH-FP Directorate would then control its financial,
personnel, and technical policies. The proposed redistribution of
program authority has been acc:epted by the Government. Another important
reason for the program's poor performance to date is administrative weakness
wlthin the MCH-FP Directorate. The staff is competent and well motivated.
However, the distribution of responsibilities has not been well defined,
and the personnel of the Directorate has been insufficient to handle the
program. Consequently, such necessary functions as the distribution of
contraceptives to MCH centers have not been adequately scheduled or
implemented. Personnel policies and recruitment have been neglected, and
since 1968 about one-half of the family planning budget has not been
utilized. The project will attempt to remedy these administrative defects
by providing management consulting services to assist in designing and
introducing a system of management appropriate to the family planning
program.
3.05     The Ministry of Healtlh is organized by departments, divisions and
directorates. Until the summer of 1970 the Directorate of Maternal and Child
Health and Family Planning was responsible to the Division of Preventive and
Social Medicine in the Technical Services Department. In addition to running
the Directorate of MCH-FP, Directors normally held other responsibilities
which diluted their attention from their primary Directorate, which was itself
fairly well down the Ministry hierarchy. Day-to-day administration of the
family planning program was, in effect, in the hands of an Administrator who
reported to the Director. This Administrator did not carry sufficient weight
within the Ministry, both because of the location of the Directorate and
because he himself was not a doctor. On July 22, 1970, changes in admin-
istrative arrangements were macle which should increase the prestige of the
Directorate within the Ministry and strengthen the authority of its Director.
A leading woman gynecologist, with a distinguished career as head gynecologist
at the largest maternity hospital in Tunis, was appointed head of the MCH-FP
Directorate, with no other responsibilities. She now reports directly to
the Minister of Health. If the increased authority of the Directorate (as
recommended in 3.04) is matchedl by an efficient administration of the delivery
of family planning services, the effectiveness of the program can be greatly
increased. It will be the role of the management consultants to make
specific recommendations in this respect (para 4.12). The Government agreed
that for a period of five years, it would consult with the Association prior
to the appointment of subsequent Directors and Administrators of the family
planning program, and in case of future changes in the organization of the
Directorate.
1/   Active consideration has been given by the Tunisian Government to the
creation of an autonomous public Institute of Maternal and Child Health
and Family Planning; such an Institute, if established, would reach the
objectives proposed by the Association in its recommendation regarding
the centralization of the personnel and budget control for family
planning activities in the MCH-FP Directorate.



-e 5 -
Z.  The rFzsent Pro2ram
The FaMi2.y Planning Dellver7 Sys2er,
3.06     The program depends upon counseling women on the advantages of
farmily planning and ojfering accep2ors a wide choice cf contraceptile
methods.  It is de&,pndent on fam1ily planning consultations at the 5 maternity
hospitals, 52 rural maternity centers, 89 MCH centers, and 189 rural dispen-
sariee n  the Mii-3'tz"'s network.  At all of thee. famïly planning consulta-
tions and services are freea
Ser'vices at MCH Cen-ern: and RuruU I)ieneartes
3.07     OutBide 2hz larir Urban m= pab.   Fail p    'r
cOnnut3atÎOns and Sericecn Rre offered b7' sp    lxzed salle tcms intended
to Cperate on a fxy,gd 5cIndiile.  Thbre tea-s coeieæt nf a geolo t
(generally an E5at Et zpean. pcoatract), a =idwî6.f   er, ass  arnt
nurse, and a                            bil5.   Ida22.  the »:te t2 d  prpceder, (for _ie fl'Sst
few times, at 1ae*ss  by :te regionai heaith cd9ca-Ror whoe -vsîza the local
Party sell or thn -illage cafe and projects cd-&cational f 1         The heaxth
educator is accompanied by <a'nily planning mati-eators w.iho -mriZ fa;ilies with
young children, The Th ork-  o  t-he M rn a l eduratc-s, the 1Ocal mass media
canpaigns, and the local Party cells aze zhe main methods of enlicting the
support o0  the male nopuaett one
3.08     The reliance =r mobile teamn to  nnslit new acceptors has note
worked well. The average number of hours these teams are sCieduled teo be
avaïlable to each M.Cd r.enter an.d rural dtspensary has been less than 3 per
week, a saall fraction of the time most clî:1inas are open.  The ability of
the teams to meat their announced schedulen has been unsatisfactory since
the nationwide shortage of doctors frequently leads senior medical efficers
at the teams' base hospital ta divert family planning doctors to more pressing
tasks cf curative medicine at the hospital. Five hundred fifty of the
country's 800 doctors are foreigners, a fact w?hich increases the problem of
keeping medical posts filled.  This irregularity affects follow-up services
as much as initial consultations And results in many more wsomen dropping out
of the program than should do so.
3.09     The project will change the distribution of family planning services
by relying on the gradual involvement of pediatricians and generAl practition-
ers in family planning activities and on specially trained mldwives who will
reside at the MCI centers. The Government of Tunisia agreed that
pediatricians and other physicians attached to MCH-FP Centers and other fam-
ily planning facilities, and general practitioners would be gradually in-
volved in supporting family planning activities on a part-tïme basis, and that
special training courses for doctors and medical students will be given in the
field of family planning. The salary structure of taidwives will be adjusted
ta ensure that they will accept these resident positions. Midwives presently
engaged in family planning activities already receive a premium over the
salary paid te midwives not connected with family planning. It would be



-6-
necessary however to pay an "isolation allowance" to midwives working in the
rural areas to permit adequate staffing of the centers distant from the main
cities. Assurances were given by the Government of Tunisia during negotia-
tions that this recommendation will be implemented. Project centers are in-
tended to be open 40 hours per week for both MCH and family planning services.
As a general rule, it is expected that the centers' regular physicians or a
gynecologist will perform the initial medical consultations with new acceptors,
initially prescribe pills, insert IUDs and perform other nonroutine functions.
Routine service functions would be performed by the specially-trained midwives.
Postpartuum Program
3.10     The postpartum component of the program depends on counseling
women in maternity hospitals during the days immediately following childbirth.
Women indicating interest are then referred to an MCII center in their
neighborhood. In 1969 the postpartum program accounted for about 3,750,
or about 18% of the program's 21,300 new acceptors. This number is much
lower than it should be for two main reasons. First, the proportion of
women who deliver in hospitals (30%) is relatively low. Second, the pro-
portion of acceptors to the number of women who deliver in hospitals is
far below that experienced in many other countries -- 6% as compared to
an average of 25-30%7 in other postpartum programs. Several factors explain
the relative inefficiency of the postpartum program: many health-educator
posts in the hospitals have not been filled; and, as noted, there are
frequent shortcomings in the f amily planning services available at the MCH
centers to which women are referred. The project will increase the number
and proportion of institutional deliveries by increasing the number of
maternity beds, it will improve the operation of MCH centers, and train
more paramedical personnel for health and family planning work (paras 4.04
tçi 4.09).
Contraceptive Methods
3.11     Six methods of contraception are offered in the program: IUD,
pill, condom, cream, tubal ligation, and social abortion. Of the 21,300
acceptors in 1969, 9,200 chose the IUD, 7,800 chose the pill, 2,800 had
social abortions, (of whom 1,100 also had tubal ligations) 2,400 requested
and obtained tubal ligations, and 200 used other methods. Thus at present,
the IUD method prevails although there are pronounced variations among
regions. These variations mainly reflect the preferences and training
of doctors in the region and the availability of supplies. High turnover
in the predominantly foreign medical staff and inadequate organization
of contraceptive supplies have contributed to erratic shifts in dominant
methods in some regions.  It is also worth noting that the volume of pills
sold commercially outside the government program exceeds the volume currently
being distributed through the program.
Results Attained
3.12     After nearly six years of operation, one can only conclude that
there is great room for improvement in the effectiveness of the program.



Only about 2-1/2% of the eligible women (equal to 80% of the women in the
15-49 age group) have accepted family planning services in the national
program. In 1969, the number of eligible women increased by 36,000 while
the number of new acceptors was 21,300. The 21,300 new acceptors in Tunisia
in 1969 compare with 28,000 in Jamaica and 35,000 in Singapore for the same
year, countries with a little less than one-half of Tunisia's population.
The generally disappointing performance of the program to date is attrib-
utable to the shortcomings in the design and staffing of the family planning
delivery system (paras 3.07-3.08) and to the inadequate administration of
the MCH-FP Directorate (para 3.04-3.05). There is no concern about the
demand for family planning services; indeed, there has been some holding
back on educational programs through the mass media for fear of stimulating
more demand than the system could handle.
Program Financing
3.13     The availability of program funds has outrun the ability of the
program to use them. In 1968 and 1969 the family planning budget was set at
US$1.14 million and US$0.96 million, respectively. These figures represent
operating costs only, as no capital costs have so far been charged to the
family planning program.  However, only about 50-60% of the budgeted funds
have been disbursed. This reflects the program's inability to generate the
level of activities -- from recruitment and training to the delivery of
services and supplies -- intended by the budget. As a result of improvements
stimulated by the project, it is expected that by 1974 the existing
program will be able to spend operating funds of approximately US$1.0
million per year (Annex 4-5). The additional facilities represented by the
project will impose on the government budget additional operating costs (in-
cluding health, training and family planning expenditures) of approximately
US$1.1 million; however, only part of the operating costs of the new proj-
ect facilities will be charged to the budget of the family planning program,
the remainder representing health and training expenditures.
3.14     The Government has been financing only about 25% of the costs
of its family planning program; the rest has been financed by external
grants. The shares of various sources of finance for the 1969 program were
as follows: Government of Tunisia (21%), USAID (dinar budget 34% and US
dollar budget 20%), Swedish assistance (17%), the Population Council (7%).
A detailed breakdown of disbursements by type of expenditure and by source
of funds can be found in Annexes 4-3 to 4-5. Dependence on foreign funding
of operating costs may diminish în the future but the transition is likely
to be gradual.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01     The project is intended to increase the capacity and effectiveness
of the family planning program by (a) adding new facilities and equipment;
(b) training the needed personnel; and (c) providing technical assistance for
the introduction of needed administrative changes which should permit more



- 83 -
effective evaluation and control of the program.  Project components can be
described under two sets of physical facilities and three technical assist-
ance activities.
A. Project Components
Physical Facilities
4.02     The project consists of the construction or extension of the fol-
lowing facilities:
(1) Medical Facilities
(a)   Construction of four new maternity hospitals (in
Tunis, Sousse, Sfax, and Bizerte) with a total of
approximately 500 beds;
(b)   Construction of twenty-nine maternal and child
health centers;
(c)   Construction of two new rural maternity centers
with a total of approximately 25 beds.
(2) Educational Facilities
Extension of the Avicenne Paramedical Training
School in Tunis including its Postgraduate Training Section.
Technical Assistance
4.03     The project has three technical assistance elements:
(1) Provision of consultants to design and recommend a
system whieh would ensure an optimum use of the resources
at the disposal of the family planning services and to
help the Government implement the system;
(2) Provision of experts to assist in teaching at the Avicenne
Paramedical Training School and in its Postgraduate Train-
ing Section and provision of fellowships for training key
paramedical personnel;
(3) Provision of two external review missions of two to three
experts scheduled for the Fall of 1972 and 1974 to assess
the progress and efficiency of the national family planning
program.



_ 9-
The Urban Maternity Hospitals
4.04     Three 140-bed hospitals (in Tunis, Sousse, and Sfax) and one 80-
bed hospital (in Bizerte) are to be built (Annex 7). Of the total 500
beds, 360 will constitute net additions to the present number of maternity
beds in the country and 140 will be replacements for maternity beds which
had been borrowed from other hospital departments. These hospitals are
needed in order to increase the number of deliveries in facilities where
effective postpartum family planning counseling can take place, to satisfy
an increasing demand for social abortions and tubal ligations, and to pro-
vide adequate training facilities for the medical and paramedical person-
nel required by the family planning program.  Although there would not now
be sufficient medical and paramedical personnel to staff these facilities,
the training components of the project would ensure an adequate supply of
paramedical staff by the time the hospitals are ready for use (Annex 5-10).
The urban maternity hospitals in Tunis, Sousse, and Sfax will be built on
Government-owned property: the site in Bizerte has not yet been selected,
but it is understood that the hospital will be built on Government-owned
property.
The MCH Centers
4.05     The 29 MCH centers will provide integrated MCH and family planning
services on a full-time basis (approximately 40 hours per week). Seven of
these new centers will replace existing structures that are so dilapidated
they have become unusable; the center locations (Annex 5-7) have been
agreed upon with the Ministry of Health on the basis of need and population
to be served (Annex 5-1). About one quarter of the proposed MCH centers
are located in the provinces where the new maternity hospitals are proposed.
The design of these project centers will differ substantially from that of
the ministry's existing MCH centers. To ensure continuous delivery of family
planning services, they will include quarters for a midwife-in-residence and
family planning consultation and examination rooms that are separate from
those used for pediatric services.
Rural Maternity Centers
4.06     Two rural maternity centers will be constructed in locations
justified by population needs. These centers will also serve as pilot
centers for this kind of facility in rural areas. They will provide a
total of 25 additional delivery beds. One (on the island of Djerba) will
be a maternity unit addition to an existing rural hospital; the other (in
Sedjenane) will add maternity facilities to an existing MCH-FP center.
Sites for the two clinics are owned by the Government.
Avicenne Paramedical Training School
4.07     Tunisia lacks paramedical personnel trained in midwifery.  To
meet these needs and those of the project, there are at present three train-
ing facilities in the country offering midwifery courses in Tunis, Sfax



- 10 -
and Sousse. The Tunis school now has a capacity to graduate annually about
120 nurses and nurse-assistants, and about 25-30 midwives. It appears feas-
ible to expand the school by about one-third, to a capacity of 200; at this
size it would graduate 60 midwives annually. This level could be reached
by 1975 with an increase in enrollment starting in September 1972.
4.08     The project would generate a need for about 90 additional midwives
(Annex 5-4). The Government of Tunisia gave assurances that this number of
midwives will be assigned to the project facilities according to a schedule
agreed upon during negotiations. To avoid the risk of staffing the new
facilities at the expense of the existing family planning facilities, the
Association asked, and received assurances from the Government, that at
least the present level of staffing be maintained in the existing facili-
ties.
Avicenne Postgraduate Training Section
4.09     The country lacks instructors and supervisors (moniteurs) to
handle the training of the additional midwifery personnel needed. A sec-
tion for training such personnel would therefore be created within the
Avicenne Paramedical Training School.  Its capacity would be 20 graduates
a year which would approximately double the present output of instructors
and supervisors from occasional special courses. This level could be
reached by 1973, with an increase in enrollment starting in September 1972.
Sites
4.10     A detailed description of the sites of all project facilities
would be submitted to the Association. The Government of Tunisia gave
assurances that it has or will have land titles to such sites in time to
enable the work to start according to the schedule in Annex 5.10.
Technical Assistance
4.11     The three technical assistance components are designed to ensure
the efficient use of project facilities and to increase efficiency in other
parts of the program.
4.12     Management Consultants.  The engagement of a management consulting
firm is necessary to remedy the present serious administrative weakness
in the family planning program. The program does not presently include any
systematic Procedures for evaluating the various components of the program
in terms of their contribution to the desired objectives; for determining
the operating costs of these various components; for projecting program
activities and resource requirements over an adequate time horizon; for
revising objectives, programs, and budgets in the light of experience and
changing circumstances; and for designing a further expansion of the pro-
gram. The development of such a system has been partially hampered by the
inadequacy of the established accounting procedures which do not clearly
differentiate between family planning activities and other functions of



- il -
the Ministry of Health. The need for such a monitoring system is apparent,
since, for 1969 the cost per acceptor appears to have been in exces8 of
US$30, a high figure by world standards.
4.13     The consulting firm engaged would be expected (i) to design and
recommend a system which would ensure an optimum use of the resources at
the disposal of the family planning services, and (ii) to help in the imple-
mentation of such a system after reaching an agreement with the services of
the Ministry of Health. An evaluation of the study undertaken by the Con-
sultant-Group may be asked by the Association at various time intervals in
the course of the study. Reorientation steps may be taken at that time if
deemed necessary.
4.14     The Government has been requested to nominate a consulting firm
for approval by the Association. Terms of reference for the firm's work
were agreed upon. The appointment of the consultants would be a condition
of credit effectiveness.
4.15     Advisory Services for Nurse-Midwifery Training:  Provision is
made for the engagement of experts to assist in midwifery training, since
Tunisia lacks such personnel. Some of the postgraduate students and
other personnel may also require a period of training abroad in population
and family planning. An allowance of up to US$50,000 is included in the
credit for these purposes. It is expected that part or all of the cost of
experts and foreign scholarships may become available from other
external sources: in this event the allocation for technical assistance
would be correspondingly reduced and the balance available for cost over-
runs in other parts of the project.
4.16     External Reviews:  The third and final element of technical as-
sistance consists in the provision of two small teams of international ex-
perts (2-3 men each) to evaluate the overall progress of the program, and
to make recommendations as to the further expansion program, in the Fall
of 1972 and 1974. The members of the review teams would be appointed by
the Government with the assistance and approval of the Association. Terms
of reference for these missions would also be subject to mutual agreement.
B. Cost Estimates
4.17     The total project cost is estimated at US$7.72 million. The
major components of the project are listed in the following table.
(Annexes 5-8 and 5-9 give additional details on these components.)



- 12 -
Cost Estimates
% of
Dinars (Thousands)       US$ (Thousands)       Total
Local  Foreign   Total Local  Forei£n   Total Exp.
I. Construction and Equip-
ment Costs
Maternity Hospitals    739.6 1,153.0 1,892.6 1,408.9 2,196.5 3,605.4  46.7
Maternity Centers        24.3    54.3    78.6    46.3   103.4   149.7   1.9
MCH Centers             410.9   753.2 1,164.1   782.8 1,434.8 2,217.6  28.7
Extension Avicenne
Paramedical Train-
ing School             94.5   119.2   213.7   180.0   227.1   407.1   5.3
Total Construction
and Equipment
Costs              1,269.3 2,079.7 3,349.0 2,418.0 3,961.8 6,379.8  82.6
II. Technical Assistance
Management Consult-
ants                   19.5    88.5   108.0    37.2   168.6   205.8   2.7
Advisory Services for
Training Schools        6.6    19.6    26.2    12.6    37.4    50.0   0.6
External Review
Missions                3.9    11.9    15.8      7.4    22.7    30.1   0.4
Total Technical
Assistance             30.0   120.0   150.0    57.2   228.7   285.9   3.7
III. Contingencies           214.2   339.9   554.1   408.1   647.5 1,055.6  13.7
Total Project Cost   1,513.5 2,539.6 4,053.1 2,883.3 4,838.0 7,721.3 100.0



- 13 -
4.18     Construction cost estimates are in line with recent costs for com-
parable construction in Tunisia. Furniture and equipment costs are based on
detailed lists and recent suppliers' quotations. Professional fees and tech-
nical assistance for the design and supervision of the physical facilities
have been calculated on the basis of 4% of construction and fixed equipment
costs. Technical assistance costs have been estimated by the Bank Group.
4.19     Contingency allowances amount to 16% of total project costs be-
fore contingencies. The allowance for unforeseen factors (other than
inflation) are estimated at 8.5% of total costs, the allowance for price
increases at 7.5%' (Annex 5-9).
Prfiject FinancinS
4.21     Exception made for the possible financing of part of the local
costs of the management study, the IDA credit of US$4.8 million will cover
the project's total foreign exchange costs. The balance of US$2.9 million
equivalent in local currency will be provided by the Government of Tunisia.
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Administration
5.01     A Technical Committee, in charge of proposing the general policies
in the field of family planning, would ensure the broad coordination and
supervision of the project. To help this Committee in its task of
coordination and supervision a Project Administrator will be nominated in
consultation with the Association. A detailed list of his functions is
given in Annex 1-1. The appointment of the Project Administrator would be
a condition of credit effectiveness. In the performance of his duties,
the Project Administrator would consult with appropriate members of the
MCH-FP Directorate, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Publie
lWorks. He would work in close contact with the project architect and
the project accountant. Assurances were received from the Government
that adequate supporting staff (including the Government project architect
and the project accountant mentioned above) will be provided to allow
the Project Administrator to satisfactorily perform his duties. It should
be noted that the duties of the Project Administrator will be terminated
upon completion of the project facilities.
Professional Services
5.02     The need to evaluate and establish proper environmental and con-
structional standards for the project, and to closely supervise all aspects
of impleinentation requires the retention of professional advice, beyond the
existing resources within the Government. Therefore, the Government has
agreed to retain a firm of architects satisfactory to the Association, spe-
cialized in hospital design, referred to as the hospital advisor, on terms



- 14 -
and conditions acceptable to the Association. The schematic and detailed
designs for all the project components would be prepared by the hospital
advisor and would be acceptable to the Association.
Implementation
5.03     The proposed project would be implemented during 1971-75, con-
struction starting in 1972. The architectural and engineering firm(s),
appointed by the Government on the recommendation of the hospital advisor,
would be responsible for the production of working drawings and details,
specifications, bills of quantities, preparation of all contract documents
and calculations necessary to obtain the contract sum, by competitive ten-
dering or other agreed procedures, adjudication on the contractors' bids
and provision of supervisory services, all in agreement with the Project
Unit and the approval of the hospital advisor.
Procurement
5.04     All procurement would be based on contract documents and bid
packages prepared by the hospital advisor and approved by the Government
and the Association. Tendering for the facilities will be on the basis
that any domestic or foreign contractor approved by the Ministry of Public
Works may bid for any one or more of the facilities; evaluation will be on
the basis of choosing that combination of bids which yields the lowest
evaluated overall cost. The hospital advisor would also conduct tendering
procedures, adjudicate and recommend the award of contracts for the con-
struction, supply, and installation of furniture and equipment. Domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be accorded a preferential
margin equal to 15% of the cif costs of competing imports or to the
existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
5.05     All the buildings in this project will be regularly maintained in
accordance with a manual of maintenance to be prepared by the hospital ad-
visor.
Disbursements
5.06     The Association would disburse:
(a) 55% of the cost of civil works and locally produced
furniture and equipment;
(b) the cif costs of imported equipment and furniture;
(c) 80% of the co0t of technical assistance;
(d) 75% of the cost of the hospital advisor's fees;



- 15 -
(e) 60,% of the cost of professional services for locally
appointed architects and engineers.
These percentages would be adjusted as necessary to disburse the
US$4.8 million equivalent or 62% of the project cost, whichever is lower,
over the estimated project implementation period of 4-1/2 years. tJndisbursed
funds would be cancelled.
VI. SOCIO-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.01     The Government has recognized the burden that the rapidly increas-
ing population is imposing and the Third Four-Year Plan (1969-1972) calls
for a reduction in the rate of population growth. The Government has been
particularly concerned with the high and increasing rate of unemployment
(paras. 2.03 and 6.07), and it regards the spread of voluntary family plan-
ning programs as an important method for the long-term alleviation of this
problem. The project would inmprove the scale and effectiveness of the
family planning program and provide important social and economic benefits.
Although the economic and social benefits cannot be measured precisely, they
are substantial and can be described in specific terms.
6.02     On the social side, the provision of better maternity services and
fewer pregnancies would improve the health of mothers and children.  Maternal
mortality, one of the main causes of death for women of child-bearing age,
would be reduced. The availability and more extensive use of contraception
would reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies which result either in in-
duced abortions under unsafe conditions (and often lead to death) or in un-
wanted children. Parents of smaller families can give greater care to their
children, resulting in better health and lower infant mortality. Among the
impoverished sections of the population, fewer children would mean less
malnutrition. This fact is particularly important in the case of young in-
fants, when malnutrition can have permanent crippling effects on their
physical and mental development. Family planning services would thus lead
to an improvement in the quality of life, particularly among the low-income
sections of the population. Finally, the family planning program would grad-
ually affect demographic trends; these changes in turn would have important
economic implications.
6.03     On the demographic side, the project should add 55,000 new ac-
ceptors to the 1970 level of 21,300 resulting in a total of 76,300 new
acceptors a year by 1976. This would result in about 21,300 averted birth
per year in 1979, of which 15,300 are attributable to the proposed project
alone. This estimate is based on the following assumptions:
(a)   The distribution of acceptors by method remains the
same as in 1969; therefore, out of the 76,300 new
acceptors in 1976, 61,000 will use the pill or have



-- 16 -
IUD insertions, 8,500 will have tubal ligations, 6,100
will have social abortions, and 700 will use other
methods.
(b)   For IUDs and pills, 40% of acceptors continue using
family planning methods after one year, 16% after two
years, 6.4% after three years, and none after four
years. This is a very conservative estimate as com-
pared to the experience of other countries.
(c)   In the case of tubal ligations, five such operations
avert one birth in each of the three subsequent years.
This follows from the fertility level of the population
which is about 200 per 1,000 women in the child bearing
age, that is, one child is born each year to every five
women in the child bearing age.
(d)   In the case of social abortions, four operations prevent
one live birth.
6.04     On this basis, 76,300 new acceptors in a given year avert 13,000
births in the folloving year; 18,100 after two years; and 21,300 after
three years. Thus, going from the present level of 21,300 new acceptors
per year between 1970 and 1975, to a level of 76,300 new acceptors per
year between 1976 and 2,000, the total number of averted births will reach
551,000 by the year 2000.  The effect of this family planning program would
be to make the population about 4.6% smaller than otherwise in the year
2000, while that of the project alone would beto make it 3.2% smaller than
otherwise. The impact of the project Is likely to be larger than this for
two reasons. First, the previous assamptions (para 6.03) were conserva-
tive. Second, the project, through its technical assistance component,
will increase the efficiency of the overall program; the magnitude of this
effect is difficult to estimate, but it may be substantial.
6.05      Between 85-90% of the 55,000 additional acceptors resulting from
the Project will be contacted through the new MCH centers (and the few rural
dispensaries) while only 10-15% will be contacted through the post-partum
program of the 4 maternity hospitals and the 2 RMCs. The cost of the MCH
centers is approximately one half that of the hospitals and the RMCs. This
may suggest that the MCH centers have a much ereater cost-effectiveness than
the maternity hospitals. Such a conclusion is unjustified since the com-
ponents are not separable and cannot be treated as independent alternatives.
A strong attraction of the MCH-FP centers to many women is their connection
with the maternity hospitals. Equally important, the hospitals provide in-
service training opportunities for family planning medical and para-medical
personnel. Finally, hospital services are needed to satisfy the increasing
demand for social abortions and tubal ligations. Thus a project restricted
to MCH centers only would not be technically appropriate.



- 17 -
6.06     'ne size of the demographic trends discussed in paragraph 6.04
determines the economic benefits. In the short-term, living standards will
improve by changing the age structure of the population and thereby reduc-
ing the number of consumers in relation to the labor force. Each child
must be fed, clothed, cared for medically, and educated. A smaller number
of children means that the same resources are available to a smaller popu-
lation. At the family level, more food and clothing, etc. is available to
each member of the smaller family.  For the Government, resources that would
have been needed to educate and provide medical services for the additional
population are now freed for other uses. Both Government and family benefits
are large in relation to the costs, which moreover include a large health
component.
6.07      Another important benefit is the project's long-term effect on
unemployment. This is a problem that has caused the Government particular
concern, since the rate of unemployment is not only high (15-20%), but con-
tinues to increase.  The Covernment regards the spread of voluntary family
planning as one important method for eventually lightening the burden of
this major social and economic problem. To this end the Third Four-Year
Plan (1969-72) calls specifically for a reduction in the rate of population
growth.  After the project is implemented, the present program is estimated
to result in a labor force in the year 2000 that is 2.3% smaller than other-
wise; of this, 1.6% would be the direct result of the project. These esti-
mates are conservative for the same reasons given in paragraph 6.04.
6.08      In summary, the project will improve the conditions under which
deliveries are performed and make for a more effective family planning
program.  Such a program will have important social benefits, consisting
of improvements in the health and welfare of mothers and children. It
will also lead to better living standards and will help alleviate the long-
run unemployment problem.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following princi-
pal points:
(1)  The administration of the family planning facilities
and personnel would be centralized (para 3.04);
(2)  All famlly planning facilities would be provided as
soon as possible with adequate staffing (para 3.09);
(3)  The salary and employment conditions of the midwife
would be attractive enough to ensure that the personnel
will accept resident positions in the MCH centers
(para 3.09);



- 18 -
(4) The Government would submit a specific schedule for
involving more doctors in the family planning program
and delegating to the extent feasible family planning
functions to paramedical personnel (para 3.09);
(5) Family planning services would be delivered on a full-
time basis at the MCH centers included in the project
by specially-trained midwives (para. 3.09); for this
reason the MCH centers would include a residence for
the midwife (para. 4.05);
(6) The Government would meet the recurrent expenditures
of the project and would at least maintain the present
level of staffing in the existing family planning
facilities (paras 3.13, 3.14 and 4.08);
(7) Paramedical training would be expanded between 1972
and 1975 (paras 4.07 and 4.09);
(8) For a period of 5 years the Government would consult
with the Association prior to the appointment of
subsequent Directors and Administrators to the family
planning program, including the Project Administrator,
and in case of future changes in the organization of the
Directorate (paras. 3.05 and 5.01);
(9) The final design of all project facilities should be
acceptable to the Association (para 5.02);
(10) The Management consultants, and the hospital advisor
should be acceptable to the Association and appointed
on terms and conditions approved by the Association
(para. 4.14, and 5.02).
7.02      The appointment of the management-consultants and the project
administrator is a condition of credit effectiveness (paras. 4.14 and 5.01).
7.03      Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$4.8 million to the Government of Tunisia.



ANNEX 1-1
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE
PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR
1. Initiation of arrangements for selection of consultant/architects,
approval of their terms of reference, and administration of their
agreements.
2. Making of necessary arrangements for briefing of consultant/
architects and for the review and approval by the appropriate
authorities of the Borrower of plans, reports, specifications, and
other material submitted by the consultant/architects.
3.  ,4aking of all necessary arrangements for calling bids and awarding
contracts relating to the project in relation with the Ministry
of Public Works.
h. Preparation, administration, and consultation with the appropriate
authorities of the Borrower in the design and supervision of the
construction of civil works and of the technical assistance
pertaining to program design and administration.
.. Direction and supervision of the project administration supporting
staff.
6. Liaison with the Association and other foreign aid agencies and all
appropriate authorities of the Borrower (i.e. Directorate of MCH-FP,
Ministry of Health, Department of Training and Education, Ministry
of Public Works) in matters relating to the implementation of the
Project, and
7. Preparation of quarterly progress reports to the Project Committee
and to the Association.






ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 2
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PROJECT ARCHITECT
AND  HIE PROJECT ACOOUNTANT
A. Project Architect
1. Assembling of all information relating to site conditions of the
project institutions.
2.  Assistance in preparing schedules for constructing, furnishing,
and equipping project institutions.
3.  Preparation of the architectural brief relating medical speci-
fications to realistic costing and functional design.
4.  Technical advice to consultant/architects to ensure that brief
referred to in paragraph 3 above is fully understood.
5. Checking of the architectural drawings to see that space provisions
and medical specifications are interpreted correctly so as
to minimize changes during construction and after tenders have been
accepted and approved.
6u. Ensuring that furniture is designed and manufactured to speci-
fications.
7. Ensuring the timely procurement of furniture and building material
and their availability as required by the Project.
8.  Processing and expediting of all constractors certificates of
payments subnitted through consultant/architects, and
9. Visiting the project works and evaluating the progress of the Project.
B. Project Accountant
1.  Setting up of an accounting system as required for by the imple-
mentation of the Project.
2.  Overall supervision, maintenance, and verification of any special
project accounts of the Association.
3.  Ensuring that funds are available in relevant accounts as required
to meet payments to contractors.
4.  Taking of prompt action as required to expedite disbursement of
the loan including preparation of withdrawal applications.
5. Ensuring that a detailed account is maintained with respect to each
contract for procurement of goods and services for the Project.



ANNEX 1-2
Page 2 of 2
6. Preparation of such interim evaluation and financial statements as
required under the credit agreement.
7. Preparation of letters of credit, if any, and signing or counter-
signing of cheoka.
8. Ensuring that financial regulations are complied with by all staff
with respect to receipt and payment of public and other funds.



ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY PLANNING
AND MATERNAL AND CHILD WELFARE
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
[PROGRAM ADM T
COMMUNICATIONS    I             TRAINING AND      |             RESEARCH AND                 ADMINISTRATIVE AND
DIVISION                  EDUCATION DIVISION             EVALUATION DIVISION             OPERATING DIVISION
PREPARATION    l               EDUCATION     i               STATISTICS AND   ]               PERSONNEL
I                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~EVALUATION 
SUJPPLIES AND
PRINTING SHOP  ]               PROMOTION                        RESEARCH                       EQUIPUNTI
EEAND TV R                      TRAINING                    DATA PROCESSING                CASH ACCOUNTING
DISTRIBUTION    j                LIBRARY                                                                     >
z
IBRD -5263)z
IBRD - 5263(R)






ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY PLANNING
AND MATERNAL AND CHILD WELFARE
FP REGIONAL ADMINISTRATION (ACTUAL)
|DIRECTORATE OF MCH-FP  L _      _.DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY                     NATIONAL INSTITUTE|
(PERSONNEL AND SUPPLIES)             PLANNING AND MATERNAL                    FOR CHILD HEALTH
AND CHILD WELFARE
FAMILY PLANNING PILOT
CENTER
_JREGIONAL IPIBLIC HEALTH 
L      LvP          ADMINISTRATOR 
(BUDGET)                                  
_                                 I                                   I
|REGIONAL EDUCATOR                     REGIONAL SECRETARY                      RFIA                           REIOA PEIARCIN
=AENA   AN                                                                                                        MATERNAL   AN
CHI1LD W ELFARE                                                                                                CHL W ESNE       ITGAE          ELAER
HOUSE VISITS   l                 l SUPPLIES AND                      |      MOBILE                              Fi  HSPITAL
7        |               7      EQUIPMENT    l                n~~EQ  ACTIVITIES                            SERVICES
SOCIAL WORK                             STATISTICS 
I~~~
I~~~
MATERNITY                                                                                                                     X
EDUCATIO0N 
I BRD - 5261 (R)






ANNEX 2-1.
TUNISIA POPULATION PROJECTION - FOUJ SERIES
Year        Series A       Series B         Series C       Series D
January 1, Population  (00's)
1967         4,820         41,820          41,820           4,820
1966         4,962          4,962           4,962           4,957
1969         5,107          5,107           5,107          5,087
1970         5,257          5,257           5,257          5,212
1971         5,413          5,413           5,411           5,331
1972         5,574          5,574           5,569           5,449
1975         6,104          6,104           6,O75          5,814
1976/I       6,299          6,299           6,256           5,940
1980         7,197          7,197           7,032          6,475
1985         8,647          8,602           8,144         7,238
Birthrate per 1,000 /2
1970         44.3           44.3            44.3            38.0
1975         45.0           45.0            43.0            34.0
1980         47.3           47.3            41.1            32.6
1985         48.8           46.6            38.8            32.6
Deathrate per 1,000 /3
1970         15.3           15.3            15.3            14.6
1975         13.9           13.9            13.7            12.5
1980         12.4           12.4            11.7            11.0
1985         10.5           10.3             9.7             9.4
Annual Rate of Natural Increase
1970          2.90           2.90            2.90            2.34
1975          3.11           3.11            2.93            2.15
1980          3.49           3.49            2.94            2.16
1984          3.83           3.63            2.92            2.32
/1  Census year.
/2 Assumed Fertility Decline:
A - No fertility decline;
B - General fertility rate decline 1980-2000 - 30%;
C - General fertility rate decline 1970-2000   50%; and
D - General fertility rate decline 1967-1991 - 50%.
/3  Assumed Mortality Decline: Identical for Series A, B, C, D,
Coale-Demeny "South" Model Life Tables, level 14-22, 1967-2007.
Sourcet Intprnptional Demogranhic Statistics Center, U.S. Bureau
of the Census, unpublished projection, December 1969. Based
on 1966 Census with adjustments for 2.7% underenumeration.



ANNEX 2-2
ESTINTE OF THE NATURAL RATE OF POPULATION INCREASE  IN TUNISLA
FOR THE INTERCENSAL PERIDD 1956-1966
Implied
Average Annual
1956         1966         Growth Rate
(oOOs)        (OOO's)
Census count of population                3,783          4,533            1.8
Estimate of foreigners in Tunisia            341            70
Tunisians                                  3,442         4,463            2.6
Estimated underenumeration of Tunisians    16o             124
Tunisians only, adjusted for under-
enumeration                             3,602          4,587            2.4
Tunisian net emigration 1956-1966                           66
Total Tunisians                            3,,602        4,653            2.6
PLAN ESTINATE of total Tunisians           3,602         4,529 /1         2.3
/1 Includes Tunisian emigrants and excludes foreigners.
Sources:  Secrétariat daEtat au Plan et à l'Economie Nationale, Direction
Générale du Plan, Service des Statistiques Démographiques,
Recensement Général de la Popula.tion et des Logements, 3 Mai 1966,
Population par age, sexe et état matrimonial.
Secrétariat d'Etat au Plan et ' l'Economie Nationale, Plan de
Développement Economique et Social, 1969-1972, Rapport de Synthèse,
Tunis, 1969, p. 28.
Robert J. Lapham, The Population Council, Family Planning and
Fertility in Tunisia, September 1969.



ANNEX 2_3
TUNISIA
£QLUECTED NUMBER OF WOMEN IN THE AGE GROUP5 15-h9 and 20-L FUR j 967-197h
Women      Yearly                Women       Yearly
First of Year     15-49       Increment             20-44       Increment
1967             978,845            -             683,094              -
1968           1,009,159       30,314             695,444        12,350
1969           1,042,957       33,798             709,655        14,211
1970           1,079,355       36,398             726,090        16,435
1971           1,117,596       38,241             745,034        18,944
1972           1,157,661       40,065             766,661        21,627
1973           1,199,750       42,089             791,175        24,514
1974           1,243,785       44,035             818,367        27,192
Source:   International Demographic Statistics Center, U.S. Bureau of
the Census, unpublished projection, December 1969.






ANNEX -3-1
TUNISIA
PR3VISION OF FAMIL! PLANNING SERVICES
NUMBER OF FACILITIES BY PROVINCE, AND SCHEDULED NUMBER OF
HOURS PER WEEK FOR SELECTED FACILITIES, 1969
Hospital           RMC   MCH Centers            Rural Dispensaries
Scheduled                   Scheduled           Scheduled       TOTAL
Hours                       Hours               Hours        No7.r
Province        No.  Fer Week       No.   No.    Per Week       No.  Per Week       Facilities
1. Tunia        3      30.5        5       16      44.0         il     19.5           35
2. Bizerte      -       -          5        7      23.5         17      18.0          29
3.  Beja        -       -          6        7      17.0         12      18.0          25
h. Jendouba    -        -           4       5       9.5          16     18.0          25
5. Le Eef       -       -           2       4       9.0          22     24.8          28
6. Kasserine   -        -           1       4      17.5         10      20.0          15
7. Gafsa        -       -           3       4      13.5         10       3.0          17
8.  Gabes       -       -           1       7      17.0         17      16.0          25
9. Sfax         1      10.0         3       6      15.0         20      26.5          30
10. Sousse      1       1.5         9      il      17.0         15      19.0          36
11. Kairouan    -       -           1        1      4.o         23      13.0          25
12. Nabeul      -       -           9      14      47.0          4      16.0          27
13. Medenine    -       -          3        3       6.0         12      18.5          18
TOTAL       5      42.0        52      89     240.0        189    230.3          335
Sources   Hinistry of Health.






ANNEI 3-z
Page 1
TUNISIA
MATERNITYFACILIXES BY HEALTH REGION --
AÀNUAL NiiJRBER OF DELIVPlÉUL,5 ?ER BED
£ND AVERAGE STAY FOR 1968
Annual No.
o! Deliveries    Average        Bed
Sanitary     Maternity Facllities       No. of       Per Bed        Stay       Utilization
_Egion-    and RMCS                      Beds         (1968)        (Days)      l'anking /1
1. Tunis    1    Hop. Charles Nicolle       70            77            4.7           6
2    Hop. Azia Othnana         63            88            4.1           5
3    Hop. B. Thameur            74           67            5.4          10
4    Arrana                    16            38            9.6           21
5    La Marsa                  25            63            5.8          12
6    La Manouba                17            33           11.0           24
7    Pont de Fahs               3             o           36.9          39
8    Zaghouan                   8            44            8.3          18
276           69            5.3          III
2. Bizerte   9   Tabourba                    4            93            3.9           3
10    Hop. de Bizerte            18           95            3.8            2
il    Hop. de Ras Djebel          8           S            10 7           23
30           79            4.6            I
3. Nenzel   12    Hop. M.I. Bourguiba        28           55            6.6           14
13    Hop. de Mateur             14           19           19.2           31
142          43            8.5        VIII
4. Beja     14    Hop. de Beja               32           44             8.3          18
15    Hop. Medjez El Bab          8           18           20.3           37
16    Teboursouk                  7           )45           8.1           17
17    Bou Arada                   6           28           13.0           26
18    Testour                    15           14           26.1           34
19    Osafour                     6            0           36.9           39
74           31           11.8         SII
5. Jendouba 20    Hop. Jendouba              18           67             5.4          10
21    Bou Salem                 10            40            9.1           19
22    Ain Draham                  8           44            8.3           18
23    Ohardimaou                  8            5           73.0           38
24    Tabarka                    10            7           52.1           37
54          J42            8.7          IX
6. Le Kef   25    Le Kef                     30           40             9.1          19
26    Makthar                     8           14           45.6           34
18           34           10.7           xI
7. easerine 27   Hop. Kasserine               8           53             6.9        VI 15



ANNEX 3-2
Page 2
Annual No.
of Deliveries   Average          Bed
sanit.ar       Maternity Facilities    No. of         Per Bed       Stay        Utilization
_Re&Let1        and RMC8                  Beds        (1968)        (Days)        Ranking /
8. Gafa    28    Hop. Gasfa                  14           57            6.4           13
29    Tazeur                     15           27           13.5           27
30    Gammouda                   15           10           36.5           36
E;   r      il.§          XII
9.Medenine 31    Hop. Medenine               18           22           16.6           30
32    DJerba                     10           68            5.4             9
33    Tataouine                  10           il           33.2           35
.P           31          IU5            XII
10.Gabes    34    Hop. Gabea                  20            67           5.5         IV 10
11.Sfax      35    Hop. Sfax                  52           92            4.0             4
36    Djeb.niana                  4           39            9.4            20
37    Mahares                     6           22           16.6           30
38    Kerkennah                   5           17           22.0           33
i  E7                       ' II
12. Kairouan 39    Hop. Kairouan              33            29          12.6        XIII 25
13. Sousse   40    Hop. Sousse                53            73           5.0             7
41    Enfidha                     7            29          12.6            25
142    Kalaa-Xebira                            0           36.9            39
14. Mahdia   43    Hop. Nahdia                 8            63           5.8            12
144   KL Djem                    1%           114          26.1           314
Fi E1 DJem  i  il:       1i:nXII
15. Nonantir 45    Hop. Monastir              18            69           5.3             8
46    Moknine                    12            23          15.9            29
47    Ksar Rellal                13           24           15.2            28
48    Djemmal                     9                         8.1           17
16. Nabeul   49   Hlop. Nabeul                14           117           3.1             1
50    Hamuamet                   10            24          15.2            28
e1    Grombalia                   8            64           5.7           il
52    Soliman                     7           45            8.1           17
53    Sorba                      15            22          16.6           30
54    Kelibia                    18           36           10.1           22
55    Menzel Temine              12            53           6.9            15
56    Beni Khalled               12           53            6.9           15
57    Meusel Bou Zelia            6                         7.0           16
102           51          ___            VII
TOTAL          966           52            7.0
L7i            ;Îing  is indicated in XtOmal nuOerals and district ranking in
ar&bjc numerali.



ANNEX 3-3
TUNISIA
FAMILY PLANNING CONSULTATIONS IN MCH CENTERS IN 1969
Family Planning
Number of      Family Planning  Consultations
Province      MCH Centers    Consultations    er MCH Center       Rank
1. Tunis             16             29,933          1,871              2
2. Bizerte            7             15,870          2,267             1
3. Beja               7              7,373          1,053             4
4. Jendouba           5              4,219            843              7
5. Lekef              4              2,337            584             10
6. Kasserine          4              2?982            746              8
7. Gafsa              h              3,498            875              6
8. Medenine           3               441             480             i l
9. Gabes              7              5,017            717              9
10. Sfax               6              8,824          1,471              3
11. Kairouan           1                178            178             13
12. Sousse            il             10,662             969             5
13. Nabeul            14              6,617            473             12
TOTAL             89             98>,951         1,112
Source: Ministry of Health.



ANNEX 3-4
TUNISIA
COMMRCIÂL SALS OF CONTRACEPTIVES
Unit        Unit    2
,  Cost C mL2   Cost C:P/-
Contraceptive                                      Dinar       Dollar
Iyndiol 2.5 ng.   55,400    72,4oo    66,ooo       0.228         0.43
Ovulene             1,700      9,100    16,000     0.285         0.54
Norscyline 22                 6,000    16,000      0.196         0.37
Anovlar 4.0 mg.                         12,000     0.261         0.50
TOTAL
CYCLES           57,100    87, 500   110,000     0.236         0.45
Condoms
TOTAL MONTHLY
SUPPLIES        350,400   100,800   243,000      0.018         0.03
/i Based on figures for first 9 months.
82 Central Pharmacy pureihase price.
Source: Central Pharmnacy.



ANNEX 3-5
TUNISIA
POSTPARTUM FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM: DISTRIBUTION BY SANITART REGIOU OF POSTPARTUM
EDUCATORS, MATERNITY BEDS, AND AVERAGEMUKNLY DELIVERIES FOR 1969
Average
Postpartum                  Maternity    Average       Honthly
Sanitary          Educators         Maternity   Beds        Monthly /1 Deliveries
Region         Actual Required        Beds    per PPE    Deliveries-  per PPE
1. Tunis         10         22        280        28         1,611         161
2. Bizerte        3          3         26         9           166          55
3. Menzel                         -
Bourguiba      2          2         42        21           150          75
4. Beja           3          3         74        25           118          39
5. Le Kef         3          1         38        13           109          36
6. Kasserine      3          1          8         3            35          12
7. Gafsa          2         3          44        22           114          57
8. Medenine       3          2         38        13            99          33
9. Gabes          2          2         20        10           111          55
10. Sfax           3          6         67        22           431         144
11. Mahdia         2          1         23        12            59          30
12. Monastir       2          3         63        32           187          94
13. Sousse         3          5         65        22           339         113
1J4. Nabeul        5          5         96        19           409           82
15. Kairouan       1          1         33        33            79          79
16. Jendouba       4          3         54        13           190          48
TOTAL         51         63        971        19         4,207          82
& Based on 1968 data.
Source:  Ministry of Health.



ANNEX 3-6
TUNISIA
PAHILY PLANNING ACCEPTANCES B! METHOD AND BY MDNTH
FAMILY PLANNING PROGPAM, 1969
Tubal         Soclal Z/
Pill:      Ligation       Abortion         Condoi3/   Cream L/
IUD               lo.of New Number of       Number           Monthly    Month137
Month      InaertionsJ/     Acceptors Operations    of Operations   Supplies   Supplies
Jan         1,022 (59)       869            242           198             1,815     266
Feb           722 (51)       671            165           191             1,238     167
Mar            968 (48)      575            262           271             1,590     305
Apr          ,0l49 (33)      736            250           235             1,652     364
May         1,055 (65)       619            319           310             1,440     324
Jun           884 (5°)       699            240           269             1,654     283
Jul           781 (40)       526            160           231             1,385     321
Aig           517 (25)       404             99           241             1,601     264
Sept          591 (26)       730            141           213             1,601     255
Oct           942 (30)       611            241           252             1,384     302
Nov           548 (30)       603            164           209             1,608     328
Dec           520 (51)       718            141           161             1,882     253
TOTAL       9,199 (508)   7,761           2,424         2,781            18,850   3,432
J/  Ihlubers in parentheses indicate reinsertions and are included in adjacent column
vith primary insertions
Y    Includes 1100 women uh  have al80 bad tubal ligation
3/   Bach person receives a monthly supply of 12 condoms
4/   Includes creams, aerosols, and foans



ANNEX 3_7
Page 1
TU#IBIA
POSTPARTUM FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM FCR 1969: MEASURES OF PROGRAM COVERAGE.
ACCEPTOR MOTIVATION, AND RATE OF ACCETANCE BY SANITARY REGION
/1               /2      /3       L.   /4                              /6
Sanitary         Mater-nity             No.    Dleli-    Abor- ~oafie   4pt&  Caver- 4çpts. Mi&a- Aoebe-  AocEpt-
Region           Facilities             of      veries   tions   mente    Made  age    Kept  tion   ances   ance
PPE                                      Ratio         Ratio           Ratio
1) Tanis       .1 Hop. Charles Nicolle          5,402       37   5,439       815            -              -
2 Hop. Azia Othmana             5,797    2 344   8,141    1,521            129            128
3 Hop. H. Thameur               5,456    1 747   7,203    1,348            398            397
14 Ariana                         630         o     630         0             °             °
5 La Marsa                      1,696        0   1,696       419            40             40
6 La ifanouba                     601        0      601      272            -              -
7 Pont de Fahs                     -        -        -        -             _              -
8 Zaghouan                _      461        20      481        o             o              o
Total TUNIS          10   20,0>43   4 ,18 24,191    >4,.377 -               I7 5             7- 
(2, 419)
2) Bizerte     9 Tabourba                         356        3      359         0            o              o
10 Hop. de Bizerte               1,609      493   2,102    1,275            227            218
11 Hop. de Ras Djebel              261      161      422       269           45             37
Total BIZERTE             32=,226        7 1,53    4          53.6   272 17.6  -2
(961)
3) Menzel      12 Hop. M. 0. Bourguiba          1,915      496   2,411       994           207            207
13 Hop. de Mateur                   73       18       91       54            29              4
Total MENZEL          2    1 9                                          33 2256  1     3B
(1,251)
4) Beja        14 Hop. de Beja                  1,450      265   1,715       908           403            390
15 Hop. Medjez E1 Bab               72        o       72         0            o              o
16 Teboursouk                      281        6      287      191            52             46
17 Bou Arada                       223       43      266         0            o              0
18 Testour                         212       10      222         0             0             0
19 Gaafour                          36         2      38         O               o           O
Total BEJA            3    2,274     32    =2,600    1,099  4          455  41.>          
(867)
5) Jendouba   20 Hop. Jendouba                    963       86   1,049       317           101            100
21 Bou Salem                       709       74      783      134           101             57
22 Ain Draham                      338        5      343       58            28             28
23 Ghardimaou                      335        3      338       50            -              -
24 Tabarka                         194       10      204         0            o              O
Total JENDCUBA        4    2,539       1       717    - -79  20.6    230  4.1   -IB9 -
(679)
6) Le Kef      25 Le Kef                        1,467       64   1,531       632           112            110
26 Makthar                         112       31      143       93            -              -
Total LE KE          3*       79        9    1,6795   725 43. 3        11   112154   110 6
(558)
7) Kasserine  27 Hop. Kasserine           3       458      178      636      153  24.1      25  16.3       24    3.8
(212)
8) Gafsa      28 Hop. Gafsa                       799      300   1,099       107            25             24
29 Tazeur                          429       76      505        96           14             13
30 Ganmouda   /7                   221      125      346        26            4              4
Subtotal -            2   1,449        501   1,970       229   7.0      43  ld5        41    1.3
Total GAFSA                2,512       736   3,248        -       -      -              -
(1,624)



ANNEX 3- 7
Page 2
/1             /2       /3       /       /4                           /6
Sanitary         Maternity            No.   Deli-    Abor-   Conln-  AptB.  Cover- Appts. Matda- Aoept,  Accept
Region           Facilities            of    veries   tions   ments    Made   age    Kept   tion   ances   ance
PPE                                      Ratio         Ratio           Ratio
9) Medenine   31 Hop. Medenine                  492       168     660       270           -
32 Djerba (Houmt Souk)           628       114     742        29           L4                9
33 Tataouine                      33         °      33         °            °                °
Total MEDENINE       3    ï73         282   1,3        299  20.      1 T               9    0
(478)
10) Gabes      34 Hop. Gabes              2    1,5L1        50   1,561       776  49.7   322    41.5      300   19.2
(780)
11) Sfax       35 Hop. Sfax                    5,1'54    10273   6,427    2,014          581              565
36 Djebeniana                      0         0       0         0            0                0
37 Mahares                       169        il     180       171          42                22
38 Kerkennah                      48         3      51        15        ___-                     _
Total SFAX           3    56371       1=207      7   2,230  3.    624 327  r2               8.8
(2,219)
12) Kairouan   39 Hop. Kairouan           1    1,055       341   1,396       361  25.9    68    18.8       68    4.9
(1 396)
13) Sousse     40 FIop. Sousse                 3,906    1,140   5,046        524           -                -
41 Enfidha                       152        36     188       184           -                _
42 Kalaa-Kebira                   38         1      39         0            0                0
Total SOUSSE          3     09     1,177   5,273      70       8      0      0.0   7        O.0
(1, 758)
14) Mahdia     43 Hop. Mahdia                    599       514   1,113       375         116              101
4  E1 Djem                       229        23     252        77  _        -     ___ 
Total MAHDIA          2     U2s       57   13685       452  33.1   IIZ   25.7        101 7i
(682)
L5) Monastir   45 Hop. Monastir                1 454      500   1,954    1,174            78               68
46 Moknine                       356       167     523       320           88               88
47 Ksar Hiellal                  496       113     609       491           26               24
48 Djemmsal                      541         5     546       376          181             181
Total MONASTIR            2,347      78    3,632    2,361   5       373    15.       361    9.9
(i1r816)
16) Nabeul     49 Hop. Nabeul                  1,626       619   2,245       730         170              170
50 Hammamet                      309         0     309       238           42               42
51 Grombalia                     543        go     633       221            9                9
52 Soliman                       328         0     328       253           -
53 Korba                         339         7     346         0            0                0
54 Kelibia                       664       172     836       265         120              120
55 Menzel Temine                 653        94     747       700          151              151
56 Beni Khalled                  165         1     166         0            0                0
57 Menzel Bou Zelfa              380         O     380       230           -                -
Total NABEUL         7    5,007       9 3   5,990    2,637   44      ° 92    1.7     492  82
GRAND TOTAL          51  55,487   12,274  67,761   19,526  28.o 3,949    20.2   3 745    5.5
/1  PPE (EPP) = postpartum educators.
7É  Include theraputic abortions as well aS social abortions.
73  Equivalent to the summation of columns B and C.  Data in parentheses represent confinements
per postpartum educators.
/4 Ratio of Column E over Coluam I)
77 Ratio of Column G over Colurin E
7   Ratio of Column I over Column D
7- Does not include data from four facilities -- Metlaoui, Redeyef, M'dhilla, and Moulares
-- wbich do not have postpartum coverage.
/   Number of appointments made by patients after delivery or abortion.
e   The number of deliveries may vaiy depending ms the source usedy the diserepancy may reach 2000.
Source:  Ministry of Health;  data assembled by IBRD Mission.



ANNEX 3-8
MATERNITY FACILITIES MEDICAL ACTIVITY DATA FOR 1969
Neonatai
Abortions                                %         Stillborn      Mortality                      Deliveries
Maternity Hoepitals and                                  per 100        Live                  Maternity      per 1,000    per 1,000         Perinatal    w/Surgical
Rural Maternity Centers Abortions    Deliveries    Deliveries   Births   Stillborn   Mortality    Live Birthe   Live Births    Rortalitv    Assistance
1. Charles Nicolle               37         5,399          0.7         5,310        176           9            33              34            67              8.0
2. Azia Othmana              2,344          5,797         40.0         5,632        226          17            40              36            76              3.0
3. H. Thameur                1,747          5,456         32.0         5,753        263          29            45               9            54              3.0
4. Arriana                        °           630            -           626           4         15              6              7            13               0.2
5. La Marsa                       0         1,696            -         1,651         47           6            24              il            35              0.5
6. La Manouba                     O           601            -           597          9          16            15               °            15               0.2
7. Pont de Fahs                   -             -            -              -          -           -             -              -             -                 -
8. Zaghouan                      20           461          4.3           449         13          22             28              4            32               0.2
Total TUNIS                  4.1i4        20,040          20.0        20.           73           1             3               23         - g59               4u
9. Tabourba                       3           356          8.4           353           2         28              5             u14          19               0.3
1O. Bizer'"te                    493         1,609         30.0         1,565         80          31             51             15            66               6.0
11. Ras Djebel                   161           261         61.0           246         15          40             60             16            76               3.0
12. Menzel Bourguiba            496          1,915         25.0         1,831         84          21             45             22            67               1.0
13. Mateur                        18            73         24.0            63           2         16            31              15            46               1.4
Total BIZERTE                 1,171          4.214         27.0         4.,o58       183           22          h1               i             63               3.0
14. Ieja                         265         1,448         18.0         1,360         88           36            64              9            73               2.0
15. MedJez El Bab                  O            72            -             68          4          15            58             14            72               1.4.
16. Teboursouk                     6           281          2.0           278           6          35            21              0            21               0.3
17. Bou Arada                     43           223         19.0           212         il          47             51              9            60               0.L
18. Testour                       10           212          4.0           204           8         49             39              4            43               °.5
19. Gaâlour                        2            36          5.O            35           1          29            28              0            28               2.8
Total                       326         2,272          14.0         2157        118          23            54 -            10            55               1.0
20. Jenbouba                      86           963          9.0           899         64          44             71             18            89               5.0
21. Bou Salem                     74           709          1.0           680          28         14             41             17            58               3.0
22. Ain Drahaz                     5           338          1.0           327         10          30             30             18            48               0.3
23. Ghardimaou                     3           335          0.8           340           2          29             5             il            16               0.3
24. Tabarka                       10           194          5.0           190          -4         52             27              5            26               0.5
Total                      2178         2.539           7.0         2.136        108          20            44              16            60               3.0
25. Le Kef                       :64         1,467          4.0         1,364        113           71            82             36           lis               2.0
26. Makthar                       31           112         27.0           109           8          91            73              9            82               5.0
Total  _95                              1 579           6.6           1          121          54            32               à            66              2.=0
Total                       17            4540                                     2          112                                        1920
d  Gasfa               ~~~300         799         37.0           780          90         10            115             23           136               5.0
29. Tazeur                        76           429         17.0           426          19          23            44             11            55               0.2
30. Ga-eouda                     125           221         56.0           212         13          19             61             28            B9               0.4
Total                       501         1.449          3.O                       12122   o     4             6              20           106               3.0
31. Medenine                     168           4192        34.4O          433         61           92           141             46           187              14.0
32. Djerba                       114           628         18.0           575         43          86             74             40           114              1l.0
33. Tataouine                      O            33            -            30           5         33            167             33           200               3.0
282         1.153         24.0         1.036        109          66            lm5             42           14.7             12.0
34. Gabes                         50         1 1           3.0          1,420         91          28             64             21            85               1.0
Total                        50         ,.1           3.°l`2                      91          28            64              21            85               1.0
35. Sfax                      1,273          4,953         25.0         4,936        218          20             47             16            60               2.0
36. Djebeniana                     -             -            -              -          -           -             -              -             -                 -
37. Mahares                       il           169          6.0           160           9         62             56             18            74               o.6
38. Kerkennah                      3            48          6.3                        5           23            19              O           119               2.0
Total                                                  2                         232                                                      61               2.u
39. Kairouan                     341         1.051         32.0           984         75           d1            76                          121               4.0
Total                       341         1,051    3      2.0   9 8 b4    7          5          ci            76    :ii::u45        -      121       4       .O0
40  Sousse                    1,140          3,906         29.0         3,962        185           15            46             13             59              4.0
41. Enfidha                       36           152         23.0           146           6          68            41             20             61              0.6
42. Kalaa Kebira                   1            38          2.0            38           7          26            26              O             26
43. Mahdia                       514           599         85.o           567         40          17             70             12            82               2.0
44. El DIje                       23           299         10.0           219          14         45             63             36             99             43.0
45. Monastir                     500         1,454         34.O         1,420         43           21            30             12            42               2.0
46. Moknine                      167           356         46.0            374          9          26            24             10             34              0.3
47. Ksar Hellal                  113           496         22.0          1494           2          20             4              O              4              0.2
48. DJemeal                        5           541          0.9           531          10          18            18             18            36               0.2
Total                     2 9           7,2.0                       7,751        310          14            39              13            52               2.0
49. Nabeul                       519         1,626         38.0         1,534          97          32            63             13             76              o.o
50 .Hammamet                       °           309            -           307           4          32            13              3             16              0.3
51. Grombalia                     9O           543         16.0           531         14          18             26             15            41               0.2
52. Soliman                        °           328            -           320           8          31            25             18             43              0.3
53. Korba                          7           339          2.0           334           7          29            20              8             28              0.3
54. Kelibia                      172           664         25.0           648         17          15             26             12            38               0.1
55. Menzel Timine                 94           653         14.0           627         25           15            39             19            58               0.1
56. Beni Khalled                   1           165          0.6           153         10          65             65             26            91               0.6
57. Menzel Bou Zelfa               0           330            -           319         il          31             34              O            34               0.3
Total                       983          . 957        19.0           773         193          12            40              12            52               2.0
GRAND TOTAL                  12,039        54; 23 4/       22.2        53 074      2,]52            2            46             18            64               3.0
/1  The number of deliveries ma- vary depending on the source used;  the discrepancy may reach 2000.






ANNEX 4-i
TUNISIA FAIY PLANNNmG SERVICES
BUDG13TED PERSONNEL POSITIONS FCR 1970
Headquarters                    External                            Total Staff                 Total
FT         PT                FT                PT               PT               PT
Division                        PFO O           PO V            P  0                                    OPO   POV    P      v         P       V
1. Managexent                   9  -  -        16  0  16        X  XX             X  X  X          9   -   -        16   0 1'6       25   -   -
2. Administrative Services   18  -  -           X  X   X       16  1h   2        21  21   0       34   -   -       21  21   0        55   -
3. Research & Evaluation       26--             XXX             XXx               XIx             26   -   -         X  X  X         28   -   -
4, Training                    10  - -          X  X  X        92  65  27        34   2  32      102   -   -        34   2  32      136   -   -
5. Comnunication                24  -  -        X  X   X        I   X X           X   X   X       2h   -   -         X   X   X       24   -   -
6. Medical Services              3  3 0         X  X  X        82  62  20        60  22  38       85  62  20        60  22  38      145  87  58
Subtotal                        92  -  -       16  -  16      190 141  49       115  45  70      282   -   -       131  45  86      413   -   -
TOTAL                                     108                              305                                 413                  413
Medical Services
Medical Counselors               1  1  0                        X  X  X           X    X  X                                            1   1   1
File Clerks                      2  2  0                        X  XX             X  X  X                                             2   2   0
Gynecologists MT                 XX X                          23  21   2         X   X   X                                          23  21   2
Midwives MT                      X X X                         18  15   3        60  22  38                                          78  37  41
Nurse Assistants MT              X  X  X                       18  12   6         X   X   X                                          18  12   6
Chauffeurs MT                   X X X                          18  14   4         X  X    X                                          18  14   4
Lab Chief                       X X X                           1   0   1         X  X  X                                             1   0   1
Lab Workers                     X X X                           4   0   4        X    X  X                                            4       h 4
Subtotal                        3  3  0                        82  62  20        60  22  38                                         145  87  58
TOTAL                           3                                                                                                   145
2142
(FT) = Full-Timle.
(MT) = Mobile Teaa.
(PT) - Part-Tinte.
(-) = Infonnation unknown.
(X) = Information not applicable.
=Zero
P   = Positions
O   =Occupied
V   =Vacant
Source: Ministry of Health.



ANNEX 4-2
TUN]SIA F.AMILY PLANNING SERVICES
PRELIMINARY PROJECTION OF FAMILY PLANNING PERSONNEL, 1970-1974
1970       1971        1972         1973        1974
Division                  FT   PT      FT   PT     FT   PT      FT   PT     FT   PT
1. Management                  14          15          16           17          18
2. Administrative Services   32   21       33   21     35   21      37   21     38   21
3. Research and Evaluation   27            31          31           31          31
4. Training and Education    26   694'  31   90         32  107     34  120     35  146
5.  Communication              24          24          24           24          24
6. Medical Services            59   39     97   45    110   52    117   57    148   77
Subtotali                182  129    231  156    248  180    260  198    294  244
TOTAL                        311         387         428          458         538
Foreign Advisers              5           6           6            6           6
/1  Only 34 positions are authorized for the 1970 Budget.
FT - Full-time.
PT - Part-tim.
Source: Ministry of Health.



ANNEX 14-3
TGNISIA FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
1968 ACTUAL DISBURS»MENTS FOR FAMIL! PLANNING OPERATING EXPENDITURES
(in OOO's Dinars)
US AID     US AID
/1 a Dinar       Dollar             Peace
Description                  Govt.      Budget      Budget    PC/FF   Corps    SIDA   TOTAL   %
By Funetion
1. Management                    -          -          -         -       -                      °
2. Administration                -        21           -        25       -               46    13
3. Research & Evaluation         -          2          -        14       -               16      5
4. Training                      -        10          10        29       4        -      52    15
5. Coemunications                -         3           -        14       -       21      38    11
6. Medical Services             65        45          40        16       _       31     198    56
TOTAL                    D65        D81         D50      D98       D4     D52    D350   100$
_. Salaries                     55        35           9        26       4       37     166    47
2. Salary Supplement             -          -          -        46       -        -      45    13
3. Contractual Services          -        39           -        24       _        -      63    18
4. Travel & Per Diem             -          -          1         1        -       -        1     0
5.- Reaearch & Evaluation        -          -          -         -                -       -      °
6. Printing & Prochiction        -          1          -         -       -        5        7     2
7. Seninars                      -          -          -         -       -        -        -     O
8. FPA                           -          2          -         -       -                 2     1
9. Medical Supplies             10          -         40         1       -       10      62    18
10. Administration                -          4                                             h -  _  4  1
TOTAL                    D65        D81         D50       D98      D4      D52    D350
%o  Total                  19        23          14        28       1       15            100%
1 Coat for tubal ligations and abortions not included.
Source: Data from each agency compiled by IBRD Mission.



ANNEX 4-4
TUNISIA FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
1969 ACTUJAL DISBUJRSEMNTS FOR FAMILY PLANNING OPERATING EXPENDITURES
(in OOO's Dinars)
USAID    USAID
Dinar     Dollar             Peace
Description                  GbY.&   Budget    Budget    PC/FF   Corps   SIDA   TOTAL   %
By Funetion
1. Management                   _-                         -             -                  O
2. Administration               -       29                   15       -      -      Ù9     16
3. Research & Evaluation        -       14         -          7       -       -     21      7
4. Training                     -       24        12          -       3       -     39     13
5. Comnunications               -        7        35                        21      63     20
6. MediealServices             66       31        10                  -     31    138      44
TOTAL                    D66    D105         D62       D22       D3   D52  D31O/2  100%
EBY Type
1- Salaries                    66       37         1         16       3     37    160      51
2. Salary Supplement            -        9         -          6       -      -      16      5
3. Contractual Services         -       22         6          -       -      -      28      9
4. Travel & Per Diem            -        8        29          -       -      -      37     12
5. Research & Evaluation        -        2        16          -       -       -     17      6
6. Printing & Production        -        6         -          -       -             il      4
7. Seminars                     -        2         -          -       -      -       2      1
8. FPA                          -        8          -         -       -       -      8      2
9. Medieal Supplies             -        2        10          -       -     10      22      7
10. Administration               -        9                                           9      3
TOTAL                    D66    D105         D62       D22       D3    D52   D310 
or Total                21        34        20         7        1     17            100%
,2  Conte for tubal ligations and social abortions not ineluded.
f2 Goste for renovation of promisea not ineluded.
Source: Data from each agency compilsd by IB2D Mission.



A>NNEX  -5
TUNISIA FAHILY PLANNING SERVICES
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED FAMIL! PLANNING PR_qRM
DINAR EXPENDITURES, 1969 - 1974 A.
For the Facilities Existing in 1970
(in 000t  dinars)
ACtUa.lL2                     a8 t 1 m a 1 e d
Description                      1969                1970    1971   1972   197    1974
By Function-
1. Management                        -                  13      16      18     19     21
2. Administration                   29                  43      48      53     58     62
3. Research and Evaluation          14                  25      37      40     43     45
4. Training                         24                  65      94    107    117    135
5. Comnunication                     7                  31       39     41     45    i4
6. Medical Services                 97                 115     163    184    191    242
TOTAL                          D171                D292    D 397  D 443  D 473  D 550
YZ Type
1. Salaries                        103                 161      223    249    267    308
2. Salary Supplement                 9                    8      10     11     il      12
3. Contractual Services             22                  24       36     40     43     53
4. Travel and Per Diem                8                 12       17     19     21      24
5. Research and Evaluation            2                   9      14     15     16      17
6. Printing and Production            6                  15      18     20     22      22
7. Seminars                           2                 10       il     12     13      14
8. FPA                                8                   8       8      8       8      8
9. Medical Supplies                   2                  15      25     30      31     45
10. Administrative Material            9                  30      35     39      41    147
TOTAL                          D171                j292   D 397  D 443  D 473  D 550
h  Comprising Goverrment of Tunisia and US AID dinar budget.
72  Excludes new facilities amounting to D 5,397  for 1969 and D 2,512 for the
first four months of 1970.
Source: Ninistry of Health and IBRD Mission estimates.



ANNE 14-6
TUiNISIA FANILY PLANNING SERVICES
FAMILT PLANNING PROGRAM DINAR BUDGET FOR 1970
(in O00's dinars)
Med.
Description           ]Bt  Admin. R&E  Train.   Comm.   Serv.
% of
Tunian Government                                                  oovt.           Govt. and
Total     %    Aid Totals
1. Salary                20    34       '     83         1     100    238    lTF
2. Salarj' SuD>lement     -      -      -       -        -       -       -      -
3. Contractual Services   -      -              -        -       -       -      -
4. Travel                 -      -      -       5        -       -       5      2
5. Research & Education   -      -       -      -        -       -       -
6. Printing & Production  -      -          -            -       -       -      -
7. Seminars               -      -
8. FPA                    -      -
9. Medical Supplies       -      -      -       -        -      31      31     10
I0. Administrative
Material              -    1                                13 j    23.     8
Subtotal              _2r  DI4       _              D1    D144    D297    100         53
Exterual Assistance                                                Aid
Total     %
1. Salary                 5     18     20      14       18       9     m1      32
2. Salary Supplement      2      6      -      1         1       5      15      6
3. Contractive Services   -      -      -     16         8      23      47     18
14 Travel                 6      -       -      6        2       8      22      8
5. Research & Education   -      -      -       -        9       -       9      4
6. Printing & Production  -      -     20       -        -       -      20      8
7. Seminars                   -         - _   14         -       _      14      5
8. FPA                    -      -      -       8        -       -       8      3
9. Medical Supplies       -      -      -      -         -      14      14      5
10. Administrative
Hsterial-                   18      _     1_                 _    _z ___
Subtotal       D13   D42   D40   D69         D38    D59   D261    100           47
TOTAL          D33   D86    D40  D157        D39   D203   D558                 100
Source: Ninistry o! Health.



TUNISIA FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF ANNUAL OPERATING COSTS FDR PROJECT FACILITIES
(Dinars)
Additional                                 Additional       Total Required    Total Existing       Total Additional
Required     Existing       Personnel     Required       Existing      Materials        Personnel and      Personnel and        Personnel and
Personnel    Personnel     Required       Materials      Materials     Required           Materials          Materials        Materials Required
1  MatCnseilH spital)                  54,300o00         -         54,300.00      56,ooo.oo                    56,oo.oo          110,300-00                             110,300.00
2.  Sousse (140 beds)                   54,300.00    33,264.00      21,036.00      56,000.00     31,660.00      24,320.00         110,300.00          64,944.oo            45,356.00
3.  Sfax (140 beds)                     54,300.00    26,334.00      27,966.00      56,000.00     25,080.00      30,920.00         110,300-00          51,414.00            58,886.00
4.  Bizerte (80 beds)                   31,000.00                   31,000.00      32,000.00         -          32,000.00          63,00.O00              -                63,000.00
Il.  Sa-all Maternitv Centers
Two pediatric~ias for
maternities 2-4                    7, oo o.o00      -          7,000.00          -             -              -               7,000.00                               7,000.00
1.  Houmt Souk (Djerba 20 beds)         11,600.00      5,800.00      5,800.00       8,300.00      4,150.00       4,150.00          19,900.00           9,950.00             9,950.00
2.  Sedjehane (15 beds)                 11,600.00         -         11,600.00       8,300.0u         -           B,300.00          1 9,9goo.              -                19,900.00
3.  Sidi Ali B. Nasralah (15 beds)
(with MCH center)                 12,975-00        -          12,975.00      9,925.00                     9,925.oo          22,900.00              -                22,900.00
4. Sbikha (5 beds) (with MNCH
center)                            7,175-00         -          7,175. 0      5,775.00                      5,775.00          12,950.00              -               12,950.00
III.  1CH Centers
Five pediatricians for MCH
Nos.6-11, 15-18, 23 and 24        17,500.00         -         17,500.00          -             -              -              17,500.00              -               17,500.00
1.  Teboursouk                           2,750.00      1,375.00      1,375.00       3,250.00      1,625.00       1,625.00           6,000.00           3,000.00             3,000.00
2.  Zaouiet Madien                       3,437.50         -          3,437.50       4,o62.50         -           4,062.50           7,500.00              -                 7,500.00
3.  Djendouba                            3,437.50      1,718.75      1,718.75       4,o62.50      2,031.25       2,031.25           7,500.00           3,750.0°             3,750-00
4.  Ben Salem                            3,437.50      1,718.75      1,718.75       4,062.50      2,031.25       2,031.25           7,500-00           3,750.00             3,750.00
5.  Sers                                 2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00         -           3,250.00           6,000.00              -                6,000.00
6.  Maknassy                             3,437.50         -          3,437.50       4,o62.50         -           4,o62.50           7,500.00              -                 7,500-00
7.  Regueb                               2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00         -           3,250.00           6,ooo.oo              -                6,000.00
8.  El Guettar                           2,750.0o         -          2,750.00       3,250.00         -           3,250.00           6,000.00              -                 6,o0.o00
9.  Tataouine                            3,437.50         -          3,437.50      14,062.50         -           4,062.50           7,500.00              -                 7,500.00
10.  Ben Gardane                          2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.03,250.00                                 6,0o.00               -                 6,000.00
11.  Goumrassen                           2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00         -           3,250.00           6,ooo.oo              -                 6,000.00
12.  Mathata                              2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00          -          3,250.00           6,000.00              -                 6,000.00
13.  Kallat Landllus                      2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00          -          3,250.00           6,000.00              -                 6,000.00
14.  La Marsa                             3,437.50      1,718.75      1,718.75       4,062.50       2,031.25      2,031.25           7,500.00           3,750.-°             3,750°00
15.  Ksour Essaf                          2,750.00      1,375.00      1,375.00       3,250.00       1,625.00      1,625.00           6,000.00           3,000.00             3,000.00
16.  Djemnal                              2,750.00      1,375.00      1,375.00       3,250.00       1,625.00      1,625.00           6,000.00           3,000.00             3,000.00
17.  Haffouz                              2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00          -          3,250.00           6,0oo.oo              -                 6,000.00
18.  Hadjeb                               2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00          -          3,250.00           6,000.00              -                 6,000.00
19.  Kairouan                             3,437.50      1,718.75      1,718.75       4,062.50       2,031.25      2,031.25           7,500.00           3,750.00             3,750.00
20.  E1 Alia                              2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00         -           3,250.00           6,000.00              -                 6,000.00
21.  Somaa                                2,750.00      1,375.00      1,375.00       3,250.00      1,625.00       1,625.00           6,000.00           3,000.00             3,O00.00
22.  Haouaria                             2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00          -          3,250.00           6,ooo.oo              -                 6,000.00
23.  Bir Ali Ben Ehalef                   2.750.O0         -          2,750.00       3,250.00                     3,250.00           6,000.00              -                 6,000.00
24.  Merzel Chaker                        2,750.00         -          2,750.00       3,250.00          -          3,250.00           6,000.00              -                 6,000.00          x
25.  Nelassine                            3,437.50      1,718.75      1,718.75       4,o62.50      2,031.25       2,031.25           7,500.00           3,750.oo             3,750.00
IV. Avicenne Training Schools
(incl. fellowships)                6,ooo.oo         -          6,0054,000.00                   -          54,ooo.oo          60,000.00              -               60,000.00
TOTAL       342,000.00    79,491.75    262,508.25    374,050.00       77,566.25    296,483.75          716,050.00         157,058.00          558,992.00






ANNEX 5-1
Page t
T¶NISIA FAMILY PLAING SERVICES
DEMOGRAFHIC DATA ON EXISTING AND PROPOSED MOH CENTERS
~'O-U) ' 'Propo-ed
Province                     /1        MCH       Pop.per       MOH
and Countr               PoP-        Centers    Center       Centers
1) 1. -fnnis         6,724                14          47,6       4 (R)
2.   =ou a               123 063       2          61.5        1
Total              7b9,787      Ir          49 3       5
2) 3.  Bizerte                95,875       1          95.9       °
4.  Sedjeoane              48,240       1         48.2        o
5.  Mateur                 58,066      1          58. 1       0
6.  Tebourba               42,827       1         42.8        o
7.  Menzel Bourguiba       50,242      1          50.2        0
8.  Ras Djebel            34,301       2          17.0        1
Total              329 551       7          41         i
3) 9.  Beja                   73,479       1          73.5       0
10. Asdoun                 20;053       0             -       1
11. Djebel Labiadh         38,188       0             -       0
12. Tebourzouk            44,875       1          44'9        1 (R)
13. Gafour                 18,662      1          18,7        0
14. Bou Arada              25,380      1          25*4        0
15. Fahs                   42,430      1          42.4        0
16. Majez E. Bah          34,429       1          34.4        °
17. Testour                23 169      1          23 2        0
Total                            7                     2
4) 18. Jendouba               66,920       1          66,9       1 (R)
19. Beu Salem              58,534      1          58,5        1 (R)
20. Tabarka                26,122      1          26.1        0
21. Ain Draham             50,394      1          50.4        0
22. Ghardimaou             52 866      1          52.9        0
Total              2     6.7                           T
5) 23. Le Kef                 64,656       1         64.7        o
24. S et Sidi Youseff  15,317          0             -        0
25. Tajerouine            44,630       1          44.6        0
26. Kalaat Senan          16,366       0             -        0
27. Eoba Ksour et
El Ksour            37,049       O                      0 -  °
28. Makthar                53,759      1          53.8        0
29. Siliana                48,191      1          48.2        0
30. Sers                  31i131       O             -        1
Total              311,099       l          =77.       I
6) 31. Kasserine              39,310       1         39.3        0
32. Sbeitla                52,593      1          52.6        o
33. Sbiba                  30,152      o             -        o
34. Tala                   59,319      1          59.3        0
35. Feriana                30 361      1          30.4        0
Total              211,7r35      7          528
7) 36. Gafsa                 50.604       1          50.6        0
37. Erredeyef              31,974       0                     O
38. Nefta                  12,156      1          12.2        0
39. Tazeur                 12,193      1          16.2        0
40. Deguèche               13,544      0             -        0
41. El Métlaoui            25;935       0            -        O
42. El Ghetar              19,457      0             -        1
43. Fsa.a ^   d            15,243      O-          -          °
44. El Maknassy            32,177      °           _ _        1
45. EZ tegab               23,728      0             -        1
46. Sidi Bouzid           49,051       1          49.0        O
47. Ben Aoune              28 098      o             -        o
Total              3             7 3
8) 48. Medenine               39,526      1          39.5        0
49. Beni Kheddache         15,908       0            -        0
50. 3Unmrassen            15,612       0             -        1
51. Remacda                 8,414      0             -        0
52. Tatacuine             34,115       0             -        1
53. Ben Gardane            24,957      0            -         1
54. Zarzis                 35,567      1          35.6        0
55. Djerba                 68 220      1          68.0        0
Total       2       72,31 3                   T



AeNEX 5-1
Page 2
Province                              ~~~~~~~~~~({XX3  Pl'opoed
anod  ounty                               H         Pop.per       XCH
PCnp-  Centers        Center    Centers
9) 56. Gabes                 15,218        3          25.0        0
57. EI-- mma              32,251        1          32,3        O
58. Kebili                33,267        1         33.3        °
59. Douz                  20,343        0             -        0
60. Matnata               25,924        1         25.9        1
61. Mareth                16,577        1         16.6        O
Total             203,580        7          29.0        I
1O) 62. s&ax                 251584        2         125.8        O
63. Jebeniana             75,058        2          37.5        0
64. Menzel Hebichaker   18,970          0             -        1
65. Bir Ali Ben
Khelif             19 814        0              -       1
66. Mezzouna              13,946        0             -        O
67. El Mahares            33,170        1         33.2         0
68. Kerkenah              12,567        1         12.6         0
Total             425,109        Z          7° 9        2
11) 69. El Kairouan           85,018        1          85.0        1 (R)
70. Sbikha                34,191        0             -       1
71. Oaeslatia             23.130        C             -        0
72. Haffouz               42,129        0             -       1
73. Hajeb el Aioun        17,782        C             -       1
74. Sidi Ali Ben
Nasrallah          29,162        C              -       1
75. Sidi Amor Bouhaila  46 912          0             -        0
Total             2I78j32        1         2783         §
12) 76. Sousse                84,831        1          84.8        0
77. Kala Kebira           41,403        1          41.4        O
78. Ehfida                30,554        1         30.6         0
79. Msaken                "4,732        1          44.7        0
80. Djeexmal              45'847        1         45.9        1 (R)
81. Souassi & Chorbane  52,944          0             -        O
82. EL Djem               21,927        1          27,9        0
83. Ksour Essaf           39,316        o             -       1
84. Mahdia                27,671        2          13.8        o
85. Noknine               49,814        1         49.8         O
86. Ksar Hellal           28,753        1          28.8       O
87. Monastir              47 272        1         47 3        0
Total             52,64         il          7I 4  
13) 88. Nabeul                47"840        3          15.9        0
89. To-rbâ                29;064        3           9.7       1 (R)
90. Menzel Temime        42,478         1         42.5        0
91. Kelibia               27,981        1          28.0       O
92. El Haouaria           19,523        0             -       1
93. Menzel Bouzelfa       27.881        2          13.9       0
94. Solimrian             26,575        1          26,6        o
95. Grombalia             26,432        1          26,4        0
96. Bou Argoub            14,128        0             -        0
97. Zaghouan              36,752        1          36.8        0
98. E1 Hanaamet           25,438        1          25.4        o
Total             3243,092      lI          23,2        2
Total National  =4,52              9         7009  r9      L
/1 1966 Census
/2  On completion of the project there will be 111 MCH centers -- 89 existing
centers, and 22 new MGH centers.  (Seven existing ',XCH centers will be replaced).
(R) = Replacement.
Source:  MXC  and Fsaily Planning Directorate.



ANNEZ 5-2
TTNISIA - HEALTH M5NISTRY
NUMBER OF MEICAL AND PARAMEDICAL POSITIONS
FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM, MARCH 1970
Deacription                                       P                       V
1. Général                     1. General
Idtnist.Santo Publique        PubicHealth Admin.                 21           21           0
Anesthésistes             ____Anesthesiologists                 135           64          71
Infirmiers                     Nurses                          2054         1731         323
Aides-Soigneurs               Nurse Assistants                 3470         3054         416
2. Maternité                  2. Maternity Hospitais
ôîàl=oaogues                  Gynecologists                        >55                    NA
Internes                       IntornsA                                        9
Sage-Feame                    Nidwives                            ô9          81           8
3. Contre PMF et Groups        3, MCH & Small Maternity Centers
Med. Gener.                    Generalists                       NA          113          NA
Pqdiatres                     Pediatricians                       NA          36          NA
Sage-Feane PMI                Midwives MCH Gare                   60          22          38
SP   Mixte PMI-MAT.           Midwives MCH-Maternity              37          24          13
SF - Total                    Midwives - Total                  186          127          59
h. Planification Familiale   4. Family Plannîn  Programs
Inspecteurs                   Inspectors                          16           0          16
Secr.-Régionals               Regional Secretaries               16           14           2
Moniteurs                     Teachers                             4           0           4
Educ. Postpartum              PostprrtLn Educators                60          51           9
Educ. Régionale                Regional Educators                 16            7          9
Chauf. Anim. EM               Educator Chauffeurs                 16            7          9
oan6cologues                   Gyneoologists MT                   23         421           2
SP   Equipe Mobile            Midwires MT                        18           15           3
lides-Soigneurs EM            Nurse Assistants MT                 18          12           6
Chauffeurs  EM                Chauffeurs MT                      1B           14           h
SP PT Formation               Midvives PT Training               30            2          28
5. Ecole Para-Med              5. Paramedical  School
monitrice - Lntitre            Teachers - Trained                 79           36         43
*     - Etonction         Teachers - Working                 NA           23          NA
- Total             Teachers - Total                   79          59          20
EN   Equipe Mobile.
NT   Mobile Team.
PT   Part-time.
P * Positions.
O - Occupied.
V - Vacant.
SF r    Sage-Femme
NA ' Not Available






ANNEX 5-3
PROJECTION OF GRADUATES FROM HEALTH MINISTRY PARAMEDICAL TRAINING SCHOOLS, 1970-1973
Nurse AssistantS           Nurses         Midwives    Anesthesiologists    Teachers   Lab Technicians
1.  Tunis      1970          50                    30             20                 16               8             16
1971          90                   70              22                  8              10              8
1972          70                   70              26                10               10             15
1973          70                   70              30                 10               -             15
2.  Sousse    1970           66                   13               -                  -               -
1971          60                   70               -                  -               -              -
1972          60                   70               _                  _               _              _
1973          60                   70             1l0                  -               _              _
3. Nabeul    1970            63                    o                                                  -
1971          30                    0               -                  -
1972          30                   30               -                  -               _              _
1973          30                   30               -                  -               _              _
4.  Sfax       1970          53                   33                -
1971         100                   70               -                          -          _
1972        100                    70               -
1973        100                    70              10                  -               _              _
5. Menzel-
Bourguiba 1970          21                     -               -                         -               -
1971          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
1972          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
1973          35                    -               -                                  -              -
6.  Le Kef    1970           32                    -               -                  -               -              -
1971          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
1972          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
1973          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
7. Kairouan  1970             0                    -               -                  -               -              -
1971          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
1972          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
1973          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
S.  Gabes      1970          28                    -
1971          35                    -               -                  -               -              -
1972          35                    -               -.                         -          _
1973          35                    -            _-                    _               _ 
Total       1970         313                   76              20                16                8             16
1971        420                   210              22                  8              10              8
1972        400                   240               6                10               10             15
1973         h00                  240              ,0                 10               -             15
TOTAL     1 533-                  766             118                44               28             54



ANNE5 5-4
TUNISIA HEALTH SERVICES
PARAMEDICAL PERSONNEL NEEDS
0    Y.   P    V                       N        NA
HALTH MINISTRI GENERAL (1570)
Anesthesiologists                       135      64   71                                71
Nurses                                2,054  1,731 323                                 323
Nurse Assistants                      3,47o  3,054  416                                          416
Matenity Hospitals
Nidwives-                               126    105   21                    21
Midwives Coebined HCH-Mat included
above                  -37                     24   13
NCH Centers & Small Maternity Centers.!
cidwlves zCH Paid FP Budget              60     22   38                    38
Nidwives Total                          186    127   59
Tamily Planning Program
Postpartun Educators.                    60     51    9                                           9
Midwives Mobile Teams                    18     15    3                      3
Nurse Assistant Mobile Teams             18     12    6                                           6
Midvi.e FP Training Part-tine            30       2   28                   28
Subtotal                                                            9°          39 
PROJECr  (1971-1975)                                                       _                      -_
Raterni ty Hospitals
Nidwi,ms                                                  25    25         25
Anesthesiologists                                         10    10                      10
Nurses                                                    48    48                      48
Nurse Assistants                                          80    8                                8
Postpartum Educators                                      15    15
.EH Center                                                 e8    58         58
ihrson                                                    18    18                     18        18
Nurse Assistants                                          68    68                               68
SmaNatemity Conters                                         1
Nidwives                                                   4     4          4
10    10                    10
Nurse Assistanta                                          33    33                               33
.Postpartum Educators                                      14   14                                 4
Paramedfcal School
Teachers                                                  20    20          5          15
Subtotal                                                            92        101        218
TOTAL                                                                     182         495        649
(P)  Positions       (M!)  'dIi&vse
L    (o) Ocepie4.d.  -  (il) Nurses               .
-v  -Vacant - -        &)  Nuaa.NuausU:ata .t
&oMes   ministry of Health.



TUNISIA
UTILIZATION OF OBSTETRICAL BEDS BI PROVINCE. 1969
Annual    Ranking of
Hospital Deliveries                  Yearly Births  Hospital   Provinces by
Estimated       Total Yearly                                Obstetrical   per Obstet-    Delivery   Obstetrical Bed   Average Le7fth
Population       Deliveries      Number                %       Beds         rical Bed      per Bed    Utilization         of Stay
1. Tunis                  859,600           32,358        20,750               64         280           115            74            3             5 days
2.  Bizerte               358,700           14,210         4,241               30          68           208            62            4             6
3.  Beja                  349,000            12,121        2,275               19          74           163            31           12            12
4. Jendouba               377,300             9,425        2,544               27          54           174             47           9             8
5.  Le Kef                338,600            13,340        1,594               12          38           351            >2           10             8.5
6.  Kasserine             230,400             9,493          461                5           8         1,186             58           6             6
7.  Gafsa                 349,500            14,839        2,609               18          44           337             59           5             6
8.  Medenine              263,700            11,318        1,153               10          38           297             30          13            12
9.  Gabes                 221,500             9,881        1,511               15          20           494             75           2             5
10.  Sfax                  462,700            17,266       '5,371               31          67           257             80           1              4.5
11.  Kairouan              303,000            13,644        1,059                8          33           414             32          il            12
12.  Sousse                567,200            23,890        8,061               34         151           158             53            7            7
13.  Nabeul                352,700            15,178        4,966               33          96            158            51            8            7
TOTAL              5,033,900           196,963        56,595               29         971           202             58                         6
'/ uncorrected for occupancy rate.
Solurce: Ministry of Health.



Annex 5-6
GRADUATES IN MIDWIFERY AND PERSONNEL NEEDS FOR
THE HEALTH MINISTRY AND IDA PROJECT
N E ED S
Health           1/                             Vacancies in
Services   Project- Replacement   Graduates   Health Services
1970           20          -                        20             90 2/
1971           il          5           6            22             79
1972            7         il           8            26             72
1973           22         19           9            50             50
1974           25         1h          il            50             25
1975           24         43          13            80              1
1976           65           -         15            80
1977           63           -         17            80
1978           61          -          19            80
1979           58          -          22            80
1980           55          -          25            80
1/  Project requirements are estimated as follows:
- maternity hospitals              25
- rural maternity centers           h
- MCH centers                      58
- extension of paramedical school 5
2/ Present requirements in health services based on vacancies



ANNEX 5-7
TUNISIA FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
IDCATION OF FACILTIES
Location                                 Approximate Bed Capacity
Maternity Hospitals
1.  Tunis                                                     1h0
2.  Sousse                                                    140
3.  Sfax                                                      140
4. Bizerte                                                      80
Rural Maternity Centers
1.  Houmt Souk (Djerba)                                        10
2.  Sedjenane (Bizerte)                                        15
Maternal and Child Health Centers
1, Teboursouk (Beja)
2.  Zaouiet Madien (Beja)
3. Djendouba
h. Bou Salem (Djendouba)
5. Sers (Le Kef)
6.  El Maknassy (Gafsa)
7. El Regab (Gafsa)
8.  El Ghetar (Gafsa)
9. Tataouine (Medenine)
10. Ben Gardane (Medenine)
11.  Goumrassen (Medenine)
12. Matmata (Gabes)
13. El Hafsia (Tunis)
14. Ezzouhour (Tunis)
15. Kallat Landllus (Tunis)
16. La Marsa (Tunis)
17. Melassine (Tunis)
18. Ksour Essaf (Sousse)
19. Djenmal (Sousse)
20 Haffouz (Kairouan)
21. Hadjeb (Kairouan)
22. Sbikha (Kairouan)
23. Sidi Ali Ben Nasrallah (Kairouan)
24. Kairouan
25. El Alia (Bizerte)
26. Somaa (Nabeul)
27.  Haouaria (Nabeul)
28. Merzel Chaker (Sfax)
29. Bir Ali Ben Khalif (Sfax)
Avicenne Paramedical Training School in Tunis
Including its Postgraduate Training Section



TUNISIA FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES
(Tn thousands of Dinars)
CONSTRUCTION                    TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT                   PROFESSIONAL FEES                 F IRNITURE AND EQUIPMENT           GRAND
Loc al     Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign   -  Total        TOTAL
(1 ) Maternity Hospital (140 beds)    84,420       125,580     210, 000    60,300       89,700     150,000       5,789        8,611      14,o400
Tunis
<2) Maternity Hospitals (&  hbeds    252,0OD       202,000     454,000    125,210      356,390     481,600      15,088       22,336      37,424
each) Souisse & Sfax
(1 ) Maternity Hospital (80 beds)     83,800        67,200     151,000     41,070      118,790     159,860       4,994        7,440      12,434
Bizerte
TOTAL - Large Maternity Hospitals    420,220       394,780     815,000    226,580      564,880     791,460      25,871       38,387      64,258      50,165      104,967     155,132    1,825,850
(1) Maternity Center (10 beds)         4,824         7,176      12,000
Houat Souk                         484          716         1,0
(1) Maternity Center (15 beds)         7,276        10,823      18,099
Sodjenane727lo,2 1O9
TOTAL - Small Maternity Centers       12,100        17,999      3C,099                                             760        1,131       1,891      11,266       35,034      46,300        78,290
(29) Integrated MCH Centers           353,760       526,240     880,000                                          13,874      20,639       34,513      34,011      178,023     212,034    1,126,547
(1 ) Expansion Avicenne Paraemedical
Training School including Post-   54,803        81,507     136,310     17,005       25,296      42,301       2,872       4,272        7,144      17,994        2,614      20,608       206,363
Graduate Training Section                                             __
TOTAL (Dinars)                       840,883    1,020,526   1,861,409    243,585       590,176     833,761      43,377       64,429     107,806     113,436      320,638     434,074    3,237,050
TOTAL (US$ million)                     1.60         1.94        3.54       o.h6         1.12        1.58        0.08         0.12        0.20        0.22         0.61        0.83          6.15



TUNISIA FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCE
(in thousands of dinars)
Technical Assistance
Technical        Furniture &        Professional  in Constru tion
Building         Equipment         Equipment             Fees        and Other T.A.  Grand
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign  Total
Allowanoe for Unfore-
seen Factors             10%      10%      5%      5%       10%     10%       10%      10%       5%       5%
Allowance for Price
Increases                 8%       8%      8%      8%        8%      8%        8%       8%       -        -
Total                    18%       18%    13%    13%        18%     18%        18%     18%      5%        5%
Total Cost before
Contingencies           840.9  1,020.5  243.6   590.2    113.4   320.6         43.4   64.4      58.o   204.0    3,499.0
Contingencies:
Unforeseen Factors        84.1   102.1   12.2   29.5         11.3   32.1        4.3     6.4      2.9     10.2      295.1
Price Increases          67.3    81.6   19.5   47.2          9.1   25.6         3.5     5.2        -        -
-____  -____  ____  ____                    ____               ____     259.0
Total                   151.4   183.7   31.7   76.7         20.4   57.7         7.8   11.6       2.9     10.2      554.1
Total Project Cost
Including Contingencies  992.3  1,204.2  275.3  666.9    133.8  378.3          51.2   76.0      60.9   214.2   4,053.1
Ln
ID



TNISIIRA -FAMILY PLAJNNIG FROJEOT I1ffLM4MTATIfN SCH1DULE
(000 Dtuare) (US$000O)         YEAR                1971                        1972                      1973                        1976                         1975                      1176
1                        SaaeialTiigOh..l    213.7  60.                           v     ,      a     XX XXX    xxx          4*()-                                                                                     ---i
1 Rural M9atermity Center             31.4         59.8                                ,,      0- XXX   xXX    Mx                         *(a
9 Matrna1 anA Thîld iieaith          313          683xxx                                                                  --]MX                -    --    .--               --. --.- 
Tenters                            6.           8.                                                            IXX~                         ( -
1 M.eniyHsptl       x                549.3      1 ,016.4       ___                       ,1 1        n      I x XX     xxx  xC          xix   ;4      4) 
U1.7  917.6                                           -XX X~~~~0-a ~ CXX- X  M     XXX
1 Maternity HlospitIl - S..a         549.3      1,0)66.                                  ,,;4a                                   X      XX   XXX    XX   ux    XXX  ~ç                          a          (a
1 R-rl Maternity Center               47.2         139.9                               , ;;           -                                       XXXX  x   XI    XXX   In$          4
Materni and Thild Hea1th            311          617,,;                                             -- -XX                                          7~    T~XX          I                                   a
Centers                          321__ 117_lm____ {xx
1 Maternity Hlapita1 - Taini         433.2         25.2                                ,,;;          a--                                                    ix   xxx   ~xx    xxx   xx     xx   lu                ____
1Matar-ty HcaPitil-Bizerte          360.8        687.6                                  ,,,_____                                                          xxx    mu  [xx            I  m                                        __
TOTAL                   3,3h9.0       6,379.8       ____                                                                           L.___F                                                 ___-a()
Ci,l       WZ k   (1 J1'861.                   3,546.           :5       __  __  _     ___  __  _                    4666.2  1   273   -7      279.11         322.O       13 O.5           96.9       68.1      -   36.1       _ _ _ _ _
T-ahni-a  Eqa8paent (3)             833.8      1, 588.          72%                                     91.6,         59.0         0.          118.5         119.7        150.5            54.3      117.1                         30.9
Equiprent t, Furnit-r  (3)          43h.0        826.8          72%                                     65.5          64.9         33.       -_79.2            54.9        63.8            17.7       27.5                          6-8
Harpita1 Adai.ar (4)                112.0        213.4          75%                        75.0         37.0
Technica1 Asai.taaae (5)            150.0        285.9          6119                       6.8                        52.5                      >44.7                       8.0
Ta~ticge~.cier (6)             [ 554.1         1,055.6                                     19.0         75.9         101 .6        64.9        -87.9           78.6        55.9            26.7        32.2          5.7             5-9
TOTAL                   4,053.1       7,721.2                                    138.8        555.4         7W261                     641.6          575.2       .608.7          198.6      235.7         161.8           43.-6
'000
FLara1 i                     _3aacrg1,533.6                                                 35.        209. 4          9,           8.           6.             2.          6.               83         8.            871.
DA6 Fincrcing                    2,517             __j__                                 109           360          666           28.         60.366                     263103                      18.23108
000 DOLLARS
Lacal Fiaancing    2,971.1                                     68.6        396.9~       ~~~~~~      ~~~~~ 568.3  360. 4  6859.8   635         281136                     1303.
rDA ~~~~iraacîng     6,600.0                                    196.0 ~~~~~~~~~~ 659.1     86,5.1       544.1        762.7          662.2       503.5            2.          9606.
a.natruatian, 639 ia the next irw thirds, anA 10% 6 manths afier -apletion af f.cilltiea  (end af
defeats liability peax d)Se1ectian anA appointment of                                                                                                                                    -Tender
(2) 609 beforsie th. or.t cf aarata,309 tua yea-  after thr atari aifocrcin   109 ai tha 00e-it cs rts,d cstffltalXI, - Ionstrulitian
pletian cf the facilities                                                                                                            -u ~.  of sie,titl                                  - EntallAf  ion
(3)25%tbefare the start cf constraation, 35% au- Y-a  afier tha start cf canst-atian,   9 ai  tha ti,e                                     .atrpls-n  deecs  Jiajijiy para-ad jo
cf cospletiona af facilittea, anAd 10% oa. year after completior of factiities (end cf >efect. liabili-                                Desig                                               conatmactian
ty period)  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ear-Preparatin af baid-packaee                               c  - Ebd defeat$ l3lsfÎlit37 pe,îdo
(4) consuitiscg services for Ihe sahe,atia and final Aesia-                                                                                                                                    farniture mal aquîp.moet
(5) aaauption tRat techaica1 assictacce call be -atiraly provided doc6g iRe firstaiL-c,' yea-  cf the
prmject except far a revijea ai.sion taking place in tRe Fo11 af 1976
(6) acseption thai caatiagec-y payment, cdi te praportiavOl ta the ocheduird disbarseerats far ail
cari categ-rle.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THE DEMOGRAPHIC EFFECT 0F TIE PROJECT
Introduction
The purpose of this annex is to outline the dexiographic effect of
the proposed project in terms of the number of avert&d births.  This dis-
cussion is preceded by an analysis of the probable effect of the present
program on the number of averted births.
Present FmnilyP1anninProgyam
It is estimated that the present family planning progream  deliv-
ered services to 21,300 acceptors in 1969 (Annex 3-6).  These acceptors
were distributed as follows, with respect to contraceptive metheds: IUD
(43% or 9,200 acceptors); pill (37% or 7,800 acceptors); tubal :Ligations
(11% or 2,400 acceptors); social abortions (8% or 1,700 acceptors) and
other methods 1%.  While tlhe total nunber of abortions in 1969 was 2,300
(Annex 3-6) many of these patients requested tubal ligations. The mis-
sion estimates that this proportion is about 40% or 1,100, leaving 1,700
women who had only social abortions. The number of births averted by the
present program is calculated as follows. For the 17,000 acceptors using
pills and IUD's, it is estimated that 40% of womnen remain in the program
at the end of one year. Furtherniore, the expectation îs that women who
are practicing contraception are subject to the average fertility levels
prevalent in the population - i.e. in tlhe absence of the necessary sta-
tistics, acceptors are assumed to be representative of the genieral popula-
tion with respect to age distribution, parity, and other factors that are
related to fertility. Since the general fertility rate ls 200 (ILe. 200
children are born for every 1,000 wornen in the reproductive ages every
year), the assumption ls that for every 5 woneTI practicing contraception
for a year, one birth is prevented. On the basis of this estimaate and of
the continuation rate of 40%, the numnber of pill and IUID acceptors in 1969
was estimated to avert about 2,380 births in the folleing year and over
1,400 births in all subsequent years. The following table shows these
approximate calculations.
Mid-year
Numnber oa       Numaber oa      Number of
Year              Acceptors         Acceptors    Births Averted
1969                17,000            11,900
1970                 6,800             4,760          2,380
1971                 2,720             1,904            952
1972                 1,088                              544



Annex 6
Page 2
For the 2,400 acceptors having had tubal ligations, the number
of births averted is estimated at 480. This is based on the fertility
levels prevailing in the general population. Finally, on the assumption
that 4 abortions will prevent one live birth, the 2,800 acceptors having
had social abortions averted an estimated 700 births. Consequently, the
total number of births averted between 1970 and 1972 from all contraceptive
methods amounts to approximately 6,000 out of this cohort of 21,300 new
acceptors in 1969.
Proposed Project
A.   Maternal and Child Health Centers
In 1969, there were 89 MCH centers in Tunisia (Annex 3-1). The
total number of hours devoted to family planning in all these centers
amounted to 240 hours per week. The staff consisted of a visiting doctor
and a midwife and most of the work (consisting mainly of IUD insertions)
was performed by the doctor. There were 98,951 consultations held in these
facilities in 1969. The average number of hours of family planning serv-
ices scheduled per week at each center was 2.7 or 135 hours of services
and 1,100 consultations per year. On the basis of the available data,
an average number of eight consultations per hour takes place in the MCH
center when family planning services are provided.
The proposed project is estimated to reach 48,000 additional
acceptors in the MCH clinics. This is based on the following estimates:
(a) two family planning midwives are assigned to each MCH center,
and each midwife devotes at least 20 hours per week to family
planning. This amounts to 40 man-hours of family planning
per week per MCH center;
(b) there would be only 5 consultations per hour. This is
equivalent to 200 consultations per center per week and
10,000 consultations per MCH center per year. Since the
project consists of 29 MCH centers, the total number of
consultations in all proposed MCH centers amounts to
290,000; and
(c) the consultation-acceptor ratio goes down from the present
ratio of 7.3:1 to a ratio of 6:1 due to better facilities
and services. With 290,000 family planning consultations
expected to be delivered in all the MCH centers, this ratio
yields a total of 48,000 acceptors.
B. Maternity Hospitals
There are 525 beds in the proposed urban and rural maternity
hospitals. On the basis of:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(a) an average utilization of beds of 5 days per delivery,
or 70 patients per bed per year, and
(b) three-quarters of the additional beds (or 394 beds)
being effectively utilized in the postpartum program,
an additional 27,600 potential acceptors could be motivated, and of these,
at least 25% or about 7,000 persons can be expected to accept family planning
services. This ratio of 25% is a conservative estimate, based on average
international experience in postpartum prograns.  The more successful
postpartum programs, such as the one in Singapore, have enlisted close
to 60% of the women.
The total number of annual acceptors consequently amounts to
55,000 acceptors, 48,000 from the MCH centers and 7,000 from the mater-
nity hospitals and rural maternity centers.
In order to estimate the number of births averted as a result of
having 55,000 acceptors per year, the following assumptions are made:
(a) the present mix of contraceptive techniques will be
adopted in the same proportion in the future. Con-
sequently, of the 55,000 acceptors, 80% or 44,000
will use the pill or have IUD insertions; 11% or
6,050 acceptors will have tubal ligations, and 9% or
4,950 acceptors will have social abortions or use
other methods; and
(b) the same general fertility rate of 200 will prevail
and the age distribution, parity and other charac-
teristics of acceptors will be such that their fertility
will be the same as that of the general population. Con-
sequently, 5 women practicing contraception for a year
will prevent one birth.
The proposed project provides services for 55,000 acceptors per
year.  Since the number of acceptors was 21,300 in 1969, the entire pro-
gram will result in a total of at least 76,300 acceptors. To determine
the number of averted births from this cohort of 76,300 new acceptors,
the same assumptions are made as those described on page 1 of this annex.
On this basis, a cohort of 76,300 new acceptors in a given year will have
averted 13,000 births after one year, 18,100 after two years, and 21,300
after three years. However, the project, through its technical assistance
and other components, can be expected to improve the effectiveness of the
program as a whole. This effect could be substantial, but it is difficult
to estimate. All the preceding figures are, then, a conservative estimate
of the effect of the project. The present program and the project can be
put in perspective by comparing their probable effect on the size of the
population in year 2000. Going from the present level of 21,300 new



ANNEX 6
Page 4
acceptors per year between 1970 and 1975, to a level of 76,300 new acceptors
per year between 1976 and 2000, the total number of averted births will
reach 551,000 by the year 2000.  The iapact of the total family planning
program would be to make the population in year 2000 4.6% smaller than it
othervise would be, and the labor force 2.3% smaller (based on Annex 2-1,
Series C).  The proj3ct alone vould make the population and the labor force
3.2% and 1.6% smaller respectively by the year 2000. It is likely that the
family planning prograw viîl have a greater impact than the figures above
indicate because the asgumpt-lons made in the calculation of the number of
averted births vere consistently on the conservative side and because we
did not allow for the effect of the technical assistance component on the
efficiency of the present program; the magnitude of this effect is difficult
to estimate.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT FACILITIES
1.   Maternity Hospitàls
The maternity hospital in Sfax will consist of a total of about 140
beds; 79 allocated to maternity, 55 to gynecology and 6 for consultation.
These services will be supported by Reception and Administration,
Admissions and Labor and Operating suites. In addition, a section for family
planning and an out patient prenatal clinic are programmed.
It is intended that the planning and design of this maternity
hospital should allow for flexibility in its spaces and services, and a form
of repetitive or modular construction be evolved which may then be applied
to the three other maternity hospitals at Tunis, Sousse and Bizerte. This
last will be provided with only 80 beds and its supporting services wqill be
reduced in proportion.
At Sousse and Sfax the proposed new buildings will be located within
the site of the existing maternity hospitals. Means of access to the
existing main building from the new nmaternity hospitals will be maintained
in order to utilize the existing operating rooms for serious cases.
The total area of each of the 140-bed maternity hospitals will be
approximately 5.5 thousand m2.  They will be installed with air conditioning
in the delivery sites, and central heating generally in the buildings.
All the buildings will be sited to take full advantage of the
climate and topography and, by prudent landscaping, improve the ambi,ance
and micro-climate of the site.
The various units or departments in each of the projected buildings
shall be planned, wherever possible, to share common facilities, to allow
for growth and adaptation and to resolve circulation and communication in
the most efficient and economic manner.
2.   Rural Maternity Centers
The project includes the construction of two small rural maternity
centers (RMC) which will contain a total of 25 maternity beds. These RMC
are justified by population needs and the pilot role they would play for
this kind of facility in rural areas. On the island of Djerba in the province
of Medenine,10 beds will be added to 10 existing beds when the center is re-
modeled. At Sedjenane in the province of Bizerte, a small maternity hospital
of three rooms (five beds in each room) will be constructed to complement
the existing MCH Care Center and small dispensary.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.   Maternal and Child Health Care Centers
The project includes the construction of 29 MCH centers. Each MCH
center is comprised of three parts. The first part follows the standard
design for MCH pediatrics activities and covers 300 m2, including a waiting
room, first-aid room, two medical examination rooms, a dressing room, a
demonstration room, a laboratory for basic analysis as well as another small
room suitable for the introduction of a mobile x-ray unit. The second part
of the MCH center covering 220 m2 is devoted to family planning activities
and includes a waiting and projection room, offices for the social worke.r
and postpartum educator, for the regional secretary and/or regional educator,
two examination rooms, and two amall offices for the doctor and the midwife.
The third part of the MCH center, covering 100 m2 includes a residence for
the family planning midwife.
4.   Extension of Paramedical Training School
The project includes an extension of the existing Avicenne School
as vell as a number of improvements in the existing structures. The school
extension includes six clasurooma, six demonstration rooms, an amphitheatre
with a capacity for 250 students including a projection room, a demonstration
room and an office for a professor, a dormitory with a capacity for 120
students including sanitary block and elevators, equipment for a library and
a gymnasium, two lodgings for the director of the school and the assistant
director, construction of an access road to the school, construction and
installation of electric equipment in the existing facilities, fences and
terracing of the ground to prevent erosion, installation of hot water equip-
ment and heating for the classes and administrative offices and equipment
for the laundry, improvement of classroom acoustics, and division of the
existing large dormitories into amall compartments of four to six beds each.



MAP.1
V*                                                           10F                                              TUNISIA
PROPORTIONAL DISTRIBUTION
Mediterranean  Sea                                                     OF THE POPULATION
BY PROVINCE
/Utb  population
__Sporsely popujloted arecs
POPULATION OENSITY, 1966 CENSUS
Less ftlafl 20
TU                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~20-39.9
40-59.9
-- 60-79.9
8  E  J  A                                                                1t0  80 9ormore
ProvinctOl boundoeies
Internctioal boundnries
Tunisia
ALGERIA                               e<
s~~~~~~~~-.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
,.17
,/  . Âk   à     )  <_ _                      2 N ,T                         °    lo ~~~~~~~~~~a 10   201  3^é   4p    501
0      20     40     60      80
.J   w n  G A F S A
IK Z             f;. r                                                                                                                                 3_«  -7   v_,S5   
'< (s ~CHOTT EL DJEttlD « 
t                   ~~~~~~G A B E S`\                                                               
\'    D'          i--,> -,,                                                                                                   BYA
-~ ~ \                                                          O               0              
_   t   ;                                                       I                                                    (,        i. p~~'  I 
CTO'ER 1970II BRD - 3151
OCTOBER 1970                                                                                                                                           I BRO -3151






MAP 2
TUNISIA
Mediferr a n e a n                             Se à                                          MATERNITY FACILITIES & M.C.H. NETWORK
» i | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUNIiS 
-UU -   -  oet-o  bi   |  A  Ui  *   EX!cTING MATBRNITY EACILITIE5
0FoDjaele        AAAAAA~
`l A / V~enzljBaur0iii   &  -  A                   a *  P.  x.   c 8 aA   MATRNY HOSPIJALe
£    At~~~ctOEP~~~tB0 ~PROPOSED BY PROJECT7.
k   0£  loMateur                              ria~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A   EXtSTING M.C.aI. CEN4TERS
; .  «  A -\   Sedjenaine   à rA   MC .H. CENT7RS PROPOBEXD S  PRD-
_    z  4)<r   _   B I Z E R T E  1                                   0 2   ednzel TemimeO)  o   LOCALITIES
'~  Tebourba0   -Aà                      enzel Temie
Tebdurl   M.n u bue5'A                               A            .- -- PROVINeCIAL SaENDAIRWlS
'       io            A          Z Drahorn'_ o  "\_e             Soi mon                                  INTERNA TIOilled  INTENAIGNAL BOUNDARIES
1D   ENDOUBA'  d oBeja                   U          TUNIS            SA        1114
A,B  u        B E J A   Medjez E Bab             Gromplia°   Soma 
à £   Sclm        oA                                  DarChabno
0Testour      >      -4             ,                 iq,air
0Diendouboi  &ge~usoi                                        
*A    Ag             A  Teorsu                          AuNABEUL 
-.~oGhardjpm2ou                              à *          .rà     0 Zaghouan                             0    10    20    30O   450   50
àn oGha'* o         Pont duFahs                                            1      1  L FI
'Gafour   Bou Arada                                                                MLE
°Le Kef           t) '---
|  Sers    A°SiIOCO       /L.....                                                                                    36-
56'                                          Aof!~k~                                 KalaoiKebire0 iI LE    KEF                               T S  Tt,nicir
-36-                       ?        à OTadjerouine         *Mha                                    _                w nsi    
r'---/                        Kai     0     \              A^ %\            ~ tMscken   u   A  F R  I C  A
-..    A,                                                AAa!,.
<  _   }       \         >            ^0       Kairouan°    \  /--K   Djàoemmal°      Mhrf                 \ 
)>   *Thala     \<~~~~~ \   Hoffouz                           j        tpUS SE    *"P                   
A L G E R I A                                              -<   \             KAIROUAN                      -                A2  sourEseaf
Hadjeb0         ASidi Ali Ben Nasraleoh`1       à 
I        KA SS  E R  I N E                                                                El   °îDjem  A        b
àSbeitla 
/  0Kosserine       |                                         <                  0   mOODj
)   *Feriona           r              Sidi BouZi                     S F A X       *à,         
\            ,,                         vo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Requeb/Menzel Chcker-à* A,/      
'   s//                                   /   *0           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ là *5ax REN
i                                                          . /  M/knossy           NkMds
n                       *     *~~~~~~~~~oEI Guettar            
*                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 
Nefta.'~                                        r-          " T-"DEB
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.
c                  G /  E                                     A Maresh'
q  XS        -  A~~~~CHOTT EL DJERiD                           GABE5Mrs°                              /*Zarzis
\    ~~~~~~>,  -                  t ~~~~~~~Matmata-                                               -A
'oRegue       l ChI  JA          AnMedenine
0                           <>~~~~~~~~~ ~M E D E N / N E                          
|                                              \_)                                          E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en Gardn
MEGoumrossen
,'          * °~~Tataouine                            LIBYA
FEBRUARY  1971                                                                                                                                                       I sRD-31 53wI






MAP 3.
s                                                       ta-                                               TUNISIA
Mediterranean                            Sea                                                       M.C.H. NETWORK
[6 93X %:7 (30)                                        (30) FP Consultations in M.CH.,
6,0]         C         295                              93%  as percentageof total Province
4                 146~~~32,000   J      [5)FP Consultations,i  ci
146,000   5 '        764 000FRTE (f 6.6/                      F[29(5] Pedietrics Consultations in
95                                 Tni,  R   E    6300   0%                       M.CF[2in95ou nd
Bejo     FJ -64,00 Popuaion of Provinces, 1966
253000  ~~0vlÇ- TU LN/                                    170060  Urban popuation of Provinces, 1966
B  E  J  A        'I 116,000                                        O   Provincial capitals
_, 7DJEND0UBA~ 9                    (7.3)                            IV<s <-A BEL/I              ----Provincial boundories
87.                                  Nnbeul                         International  boundaries
1 317,000
(2.3)           43,000
(     Le  K .f'i   [ 70                                                                                 Tunis
36                                               .~~~~~~~~13/
1À      i07~4,000tt                                _, 
i E   K E F                                                                                F/ Sus  AFR I C A
(0.1)       (          us
\.,~~~~~~~~~~1'                      72']  Kofron> \'       4
\, >__xvi   -  E   >_^,r                       \~~~~~~22   [62.3] 1   
(2.9)                       A/277000A             50(155E
.12,0,000                                            0
y  KaJsserine«i)       j          1            /      ><5
i KfASSER/NVE i                                     , 
j                                                     jrr  t~2  1    (41%
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~         sa
g`   ô  (3.4)               /          m                       423,000 t
z»        1 3100%                (      _S      A000
E 32]1
5 F A
O o       20   30   40   50
G    A   F   51> A_t rfI"-_S_
-   ~~~  '  /    tx \  48  «      ~~(5.0)                GbsXS                          >
G APSA                                                      i'20 j<tLOMT0C0
\~~~~~~~~~ --                                       -'                                                                                 2>14S,O
t   > >,_r,  5                                        >{   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Medenin«k  (0.4)   S
<                ~~~~~~~~~G A  B  E S                                                   7_ %16   
-'\                                     `-\                        | ~~~~~~~~    ~      ~    ~~~~~~~236,000   
>s                                   R                       1 ~~~~~~~      ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~33,000Ij
\                                           056ev0   M DE  // N E                                    L I B Y A
OOTOBER 1970                                                                                                                     J
OCTOBER 1970                                                                                                                          IBRO 3-ij  [35



