CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 238 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 5, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 238 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 5, 1971


﻿Urirlo~pmuu TrIrgbt Agruntrut
AGREEMENT, dated April 5, 1971, between REPUB-
LIC OF TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject however, to the deletion
of Section 5.01 thereof (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as
so modified, being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional term has the
following meaning: "Directorate" means Directorate of
Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning of the
Borrower or any successor thereof which may be estab-
lished by the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to four million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($4,800,000).


﻿4
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement;
provided, however, that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such terri-
tories.
SECTION 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(34 of 1o) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and
November 15 commencing May 15, 1981 and ending Novem-
ber 15, 2020 each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on November 15, 1990, to be one-half of one
per cent (  of 17o) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(12o) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, public health, family plan-
ning and population planning practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall appoint consult-
ants acceptable to, and upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to, the Association to help (i) design and implement
a system of program planning, budgeting, and statistical
reporting appropriate to the family planning program and
to design a further expansion program which will ensure
an optimum use of the resources at the disposal of family
planning services; (ii) prepare schematics, designs and
tender documents and evaluate bids for and to supervise
the construction of the buildings and facilities included in
Part A of the Project; and (iii) prepare specifications and
evaluate tenders for the furniture and equipment for such
buildings and facilities.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause Part A of the Project to be carried
out by contractors acceptable to, and employed under con-
tracts satisfactory to, the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association for its approval promptly upon their prepa-
ration, the designs, the plans, specifications, contracts, and
work schedules and lists of equipment and furniture for
Part A of the Project and any subsequent material modi-
fications thereof, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(d) The Borrower shall promptly take requisite steps
to acquire or purchase all such lands, interests in land and
properties and all rights, powers and privileges as may be


﻿6
necessary or proper for the construction and operation of
the buildings included in Part A of the Project and to
ensure that such lands, interests in land and properties
are available as needed to meet the construction schedule
for Part A of the Project.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than services of con-
sultants) required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
or as shall be agreed between the Association and the
Borrower.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Director-
ate to develop and implement the national family planning
programs and shall develop and implement or cause to
be developed and implemented the population planning
programs.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the Directorate shall have
an organization and shall exercise functions and respon-
sibilities as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall provide to the Directorate:
(i) funds through annual budgetary appropria-
tions, and
(ii) other facilities, services and resources,
required to enable the Directorate to implement effectively
the national family planning programs. The Borrower shall
also provide funds, other facilities, services and resources
required for efficient implementation of population planning
programs.


﻿7
SECTION 3.05. The Borrower undertakes to cause all its
family planning facilities to be provided with adequate,
competent and experienced staff.
SECTION 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall implement the administrative
arrangements set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.07. In order to assist in teaching at the Avi-
cenne Paramedical Training School including the Postgrad-
uate Training Section, under Part B (2) of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, in consultation with the Asso-
ciation, competent experts upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
SECTION 3.08. The Borrower shall, at all times, employ
a director and one or several administrators including a
family planning administrator for the Directorate and a
Project administrator who will be qualified and experienced
and who will be assisted by adequate, qualified and expe-
rienced staff. The first such director, family planning ad-
ministrator and Project administrator and any subsequent
director, family planning administrator and Project admin-
istrator to be appointed within five years from the date of
this Agreement shall be appointed in consultation with the
Association.
SECTION 3.09. The Borrower undertakes that, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the locations and
approximate bed capacities of the facilities to be con-
structed under Part A of the Project shall be as set forth
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.10. The Borrower shall cause the buildings,
furniture and equipment of the institutions included in the
Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in
accordance with sound engineering practices.


﻿8
SECTIOx 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the im-
ported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repai such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
SECTION 3.12. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
A.:sociation shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
t,e expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause the Directorate:
(i) as part of the Borrower's national family planning


﻿0
9
program, to reach and motivate as many child-
bearing women as possible to become family plan-
ning acceptors, through the post partum education
programs to be imparted at maternity hospitals,
Rural Maternal Centers and Maternal and Child
Health Centers.
(ii) to submit by not later than July 1, 1971 to the Asso-
ciation for its approval a program to be developed
by the Directorate for promoting family planning
objectives and methods through personal visits to
and interviews with men, and women of child-bear-
ing age to encourage them to become acceptors of
family planning methods and to begin to implement
such program as approved by the Association by
not later than December 31, 1971; and
(iii) to maintain appropriate statistical and other rec-
ords relating to the operation and effectiveness of
national family planning programs to enable peri-
odic evaluation of the cost and effectiveness of such
programs.
SECTION 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree the Borrower shall cause the studies included in
Part B (3) of the Project to be carried out by consultants
acceptable to and employed on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-


﻿10
tion, operations and financial condition, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Borrower,
of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its other obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTIox 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free


﻿0
11
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Creit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such declara-
tion such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTIoN 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is speci-
fied, namely, that, the organization, functions and respon-
sibilities of the Directorate, referred to in paragraph (b)
of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, shall have been sus-
pended or abrogated or so amended as to impair, in the
opinion of the Association, the ability of the Borrower to
carry out its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿12
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(1) The consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 3.02 of this Agreement shall have been employed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(2) The Project administrator referred to in Section 3.08
of this Agreement shall have been appointed.
SECTION 8.02. The date June 30, 1971 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.08, 3.10, 3.12, 4.01 and 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Ministre du Plan of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the pur-
poses of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
2, Rue de Beja
Tunis, Tunisia


﻿13
Cable address:
Ministere du Plan
Tunis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of - Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ SLAHEDDINE EL Gouui
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each category and the per-
centage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the Credit
Allocated (Expressed  Percentage of Expenditures
Category                     in dollarequivalent)      to be Financed
I. Civil works                           1,950,0   55%  of total expenditures
(representing the estimated
foreign expenditure
component)
II. Equipment and furniture:              1,730,000
(a) imported; or                                100% of foreign
expenlditures
(b) Locally procured                            55%  of total expenditures
(representig the estimated
foreign expenditure
component)
III. Technical assistance:                  230,000  80%  of total expenditures
(a) management consultants   170,000            (representing the estimated
foreign expenditure
(b) medical & paramedical     40,000            component)
experts and fellowships
(c) review missions           20,000
IV. Consulting Services for the             160,000
schematic and final designs                     75%  of total expenditures
(representing the estimated
foreign expenditure
component)
V. Professional services of                120,000  60%  of total expenditures
architects and engineers                        (representing the estimated
for the execution of the                        foreign expenditure
Project                                         component)
VI. Unallocated                             610,00
TOTAL               4,800,000
(rpesnin  heetiae


﻿15
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any member of the Bank
(other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services; or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above would exceed the amount
payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated by the Association by increasing correspond-
ingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;


﻿16
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of such
expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such in-
crease, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by
the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of total expenditures under Category I, II(b), III, IV or V
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applica-
ble to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6. Amounts in Category VI which may become no longer
required for contingencies, as determined by the Associa-
tion from time to time, shall be allocated to Categories I,
II(b), III, IV and V and if the ratio between the amount of
the Credit allocated to any of these Categories and the esti-
mate of payments for goods and services included in any
such Category exceeds the percentage applicable to such
Category, the Association shall, upon request from the
Borrower, increase such percentage to the extent necessary
to permit full withdrawal of the amount of the Credit or
of an amount equal to 62o of the then estimated cost of
the Project, whichever is the lower, provided, however,
that such adjustment shall in no event result in withdrawals
on account of payment for taxes imposed by the Borrower
or any of its political subdivisions.


﻿0
17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to support the population control
program of the Borrower and consists of the following:
A. The construction and equipment of :
(1) four new maternity hospitals in Tunis, Sousse, Sfax
and Bizerte, with a total of approximately 500 beds;
(2) two new Rural Maternity Centers;
(3) twenty-nine Maternal and Child Health Centers;
(4) the extension of the Avicenne Paramedical Training
Ichool and its Postgraduate Training Section in order to
permit the annual graduation, starting from 1975 of at least
60 midwives and 20 paramedical supervisors.
B. Three technical assistance components:
(1) provision of consultants to design and recommend a
system which would ensure an optimum use of the resources
at the disposal of the family planning services and to help
the Borrower implement the system;
(2) provision of experts to assist in teaching at the Avi-
cenne Paramedical Training School and at its Postgraduate
Training Section and provision of fellowships for training
key paramedical personnel;
(3) provision of two external review missions of two to
three experts scheduled for the fall of 1972 and 1974 to
assess the progress and efficiency of the national family
planning program.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1975.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A. Contracts for Civil Works
1. The contracts for civil works will be grouped into
several packages. The maternity hospitals of Tunis, Sousse,
Sfax and Bizerte will be treated as single contract packages.
Remaining contract items will be grouped, combined or
treated singly for the purposes of international competitive
bidding on the advice of the consulting architect and will
be awarded on the basis of the combination of individual
and/or package bids yielding the lowest evaluated total
cost. The bids for the MCH centers shall be opened simul-
taneously.
2. If bidders are required to pre-qualify, the Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association
in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of pre-qualified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for pre-qualifica-
tion, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified and the
Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
3. Invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of contract
and all other tender documents will be submitted to the
Association for its review and approval prior to the issu-
ance of invitations to bid.
4. After bids have been received and analyzed by the
consulting architect, the analysis of the bids, and the pro-
posals for awards, together with the reasons for such pro-
posals, will be submitted to the Association for its review
and approval prior to the Borrower's making any award
of contract or issuing any letter of intent.
5. If the final contract is to differ substantially from the
terms and conditions contained in the respective documents


﻿19
approved by the Association under paragraphs (2) and (3)
above, the text of the proposed changes will be submitted
to the Association for its review and approval prior to the
execution of such contract.
6. If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
7. As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a con-
tract has been executed, a copy thereof will be sent to the
Association.
B. Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1. The items to be purchased will be grouped so far as
possible to permit such bulk procurement as shall be con-
sistent with sound technical and procurement practices.
Insofar as practicable, contracts for both equipment and
furniture will be for a minimum amount of $5,000.
2. Lists of all items of equipment as well as of furniture,
showing the specifications, and the estimated unit and total
price of each item and total value of all items included in
each list will be sent to the Association for approval prior
to inviting bids. Draft standard documents for inviting
tenders, draft forms of contract and the description of the
method to be used for obtaining bids on an international
competitive basis, will also be submitted for the Associa-
tion's approval, prior to inviting bids.
3. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, pro-
curement will be limited to those items of equipment and
furniture in the approved lists mentioned in sub-paragraph
B (2) above.
4. With respect to contracts for furniture and equipment
and pursuant to Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines for Pro-
curement referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement,
the Association agrees that where any bid is submitted by
any manufacturer, located in the territories of the Bor-
0


﻿20
rower, of equipment, materials or supplies manufactured
or processed in the territories of the Borrower to a sub-
stantial extent as determined by the Association (Local
Bid), the following rules shall be observed for the purpose
of comparing any Local Bid as thus defined to any bid other
than a Local Bid (Foreign Bid):
(a) All customs duties and similar taxes on the importa-
tion of the goods offered shall first be deducted from the
total of any Foreign Bid;
(b) The portion of any Foreign Bid representing the
c.i.f. landed price of the goods shall then be increased by
15 percent thereof or the rate of such duties as apply to
non-exempt purchases in the territories of the Borrower
for the importation of such goods, whichever is lower;
(c) The resulting figure shall be deemed to be the com-
parison price of the Foreign Bid;
(d) For the purpose of determining the lowest evaluated
bid under Section 3.9 of the Guidelines for Procurement
the comparison price of the Foreign Bid shall then be com-
pared with the ex-factory price of the goods offered by the
competing Local Bid; and
(e) In cases where it is recommended to award a contract
to a Local Bid, the bid analysis shall state the rate of duties
which would be applicable to a non-exempt purchaser for
the importation of such goods.
5. In case of a contract awarded to a bidder other than
the lowest evaluated bidder or a contract involving a price
of 10 percent or more above the original estimate as sub-
mitted under paragraph B (2) above, the Borrower shall
send to the Association, after the bids have been evaluated
and before making the award, a summary and analysis
thereof and a brief justification of the Borrower's decision
on the award and request the Association's approval to the
award. In case of a contract where the price is less than
10 percent above the original estimate as submitted under
paragraph B (2) above, the Borrower shall, after placement


﻿0
21
of the order, submit to the Association an analysis of the
tender and justification for the Borrower's decision on the
award. As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a
contract has been executed, a copy thereof as well as a
certificate signed by a representative of the Borrower that
the goods tendered for are in accordance with the quanti-
ties and specifications in the list approved by the Bank,
shall be sent to the Association. The Association shall
promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the award
of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
and, in such event, no letter of intent or expenditures under
such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
The Directorate
Functions and Responsibilities
1. The Directorate will have the following functions and
responsibilities:
(a) undertake, with the support of concerned government
organs and national organizations, a continuing cam-
paign of education of the people through all the com-
munications media to emphasize the danger of re-
peated pregnancies at short intervals to the health
of mothers, the welfare of children, the well-being of
the family, the balanced economic growth of the coun-
try and the social and cultural development of the
nation;
(b) promote maternal and child health programs through
the development of the curative, preventive and edu-
cational functions of the Maternal and Child Health
Centers and Groups;
(c) make available to those attending hospitals and
health centers, the information and technical means
that will enable them to prevent unwanted preg-
nancies and to determine, with full freedom, the size
of their families;
(d) strengthen the resources of hospital centers to enable
them to meet justified requests for sterilization and
lawful abortion;
(e) organize a program of education in family planning
for those attending hospital and health centers, espe-
cially those in the maternity wards of hospitals and
at Maternal and Child Health Centers;
(f) undertake scientific research into all fields affecting
maternal and child health and family planning and
particularly in the fields of contraception and demog-
raphy in association with other institutions con-
cerned; and


﻿23
(g) supervise pregnancies through prenatal consulta-
tions, so as to ensure that they are normal and lead
to the birth of a healthy child that is capable of a
normal life.
Organization ond Management
2. The Directorate shall be operated by:
(a) a director in charge of appointing and assigning
family planning personnel, and directly responsible
for family planning programs in the urban and rural
maternity hospitals established under the Project.
The director shall also ensure that the full- and part-
time staff of the Directorate assigned to the hospital
facilities will devote its activities to family planning
except in cases of force majeure. Finally, the direc-
tor shall have full responsibility for any other exist-
ing or future family planning and Maternal and
Child Health Centers, except for the folowing 18
Maternal and Child Health Centers in the Tunis
region:
La Marsa, Le Kram, Djebel Lahmar, Ariana Groupe,
Centre Pilote de Bellevue, Bach Hamba, Zaghouan,
Ali Trad, Bardo, La Manouba, Montfleury, Hamman
Lif, Rades, Ben Arous, Tebourba, Pont du Fahs,
Sidi Daoud, Rue du Fosse. However, these centers
will be transferred to the Directorate gradually and,
to the extent permitted by availability of family
planning personnel, by December 31, 1975 at the
latest. In any event the Directorate shall continue
to supervise these Centers and their personnel. The
posts existing in these Centers for family planning
services shall be maintained;
(b) one or several administrators including a family
planning administrator; and
(c) a technical committee which will propose the general
policy in the field of family planning and maternal
and child health.


﻿24
3. The Directorate shall have financial autonomy.
4. The accounts of the Directorate shall at all times ade-
quately and accurately reflect the receipts and expenditures
related to family planning activities. Said accounts will be
audited annually.
SCHEDULE 5
Administrative Arrangements
1. Family planning services will be delivered on a full-
time basis at the Maternal and Child Health Centers in-
cluded in the Project by adequately trained midwives.
2. Said Centers will each include a midwife residence.
3. The salary and employment conditions of the mid-
wives will be attractive enough to ensure that they accept
resident positions in said Centers; to that effect, the Bor-
rower will adopt such measures as the payment of over-time
compensation, the payment of compensation in accordance
with the place of assignment and the supply of free lodging
for the midwives.
4. In order to have wider participation by more Tunisian
doctors in the family planning program, the Borrower will
implement the following measures:
(a) participation in the family planning program of all
pediatricians and other physicians attached to Maternal
and Child Health Centers and other Family Planning Clin-
ics within the national program by their carrying out medi-
cal examinations of family planning acceptors, undertaking
prescription of contraceptives, insertion of intrauterine
devices, follow-up of medical complications, giving medical
advice and providing the stimulus, leadership and initiative
for such work in these centers and clinics.
(b) involvement of an increasing number of general prac-
titioners in the national family planning program by using
them on part-time basis at Maternal and Child Health
Centers where Government doctors are not available; such


﻿0
25
services will be provided in accordance with the needs of
the clinic and region served and will be duly expanded as
such need may require;
(c) conduct of special training courses for doctors in the
family planning programs, both centrally and in the prov-
inces;
(d) training of medical students and medical interns in
family planning work and population planning.
(e) to the extent possible, encouragement of the medical
corps to provide family planning services in the Maternal
and Child Health Centers and other clinics so that facilities
and services are available to women at all times.
5. To ensure that the widest use of paramedical person-
nel is undertaken, the Borrower shall take necessary steps
to enable midwives and nurses at the Maternal and Child
Health Centers and other family planning clinics, to:
(a) continue to give advice on family planning and
undertake educational and motivation work to antenatal
and postnatal women, and among all mothers attending
such clinics;
(b) increase such home visits as may be necessary for
such education and motivation work;
(c) carry on follow-up work in connection with the family
planning program;
(d) supply to acceptors conventional contraceptives (i.e.
condoms, contraceptive foam, jellies) and to repeat accep-
tors additional supply of oral contraceptives;
(e) give advice on facilities for contraception and on
control and cure of complications.
The Borrower shall submit prior to July 1, 1971, to the
Association for its approval a detailed plan for implement-
ing the administrative arrangements under paragraphs 3,
4 (a), (b), (c), (d) and 5 above.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 6
Location and Bed Capacities of Facilities included
in Part A of the Project
Approximate
Location                           Bed Capacity
1. Tunis                                    140
2. Sousse                                   140
3. Sfax                                     140
4. Bizerte                                   80
Rural Maternity Centers
1. Houmt Souk (Djerbe)                       10
2. Sedjenane (Bizerte)                       15
Maternal and Child Health Centers
1. Teboursouk (Beja)
2. Zaouiet Madien (Beja)
3. Djendouba
4. Bou Salem (Djendouba)
5. Sers (Le Kef)
6. El Maknassv (Gafsa)
7. El Regab (Gafsa)
8. El Ghetar (Gafsa)
9. Tatouine (Medenine)
10. Ben Gardane (Medenine)
11. Goumrassen (Medenine)
12. Matmata (Gabes)
13. El Hafsia (Tunis)
14. Ezzouhour (Tunis)
15. Kallat Landllus (Tunis)
16. La Marsa (Tunis)
17. Melassine (Tunis)
18. Ksour Essaf (Sousse)
19. Djemmal (Sousse)
20. laffouz (Kairouan)
21. Hadjeb (Kairouan)
22. Sbikha (Kairouan)
23. Sidi Ali Ben Nasrallah (Kairouan)


﻿27
24. Kairouan
25. El Alia (Bizerte)
26. Somaa (Nabeul)
27. Haouaria (Nabeul)
28. Merzel Chaker (Sfax)
29. Bir Ali Ben Khalif (Sfax)
Avicenne Paramedical Training School
including its Postgraduate Training Section.


