Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7270-AM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 35.6 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
November 24, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit         Dram
US$1           511 Drain
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASB   -  Armenian Saving Bank
BBP   -  Basic Benefit Package
CAS   -  Country Assistance Strategy
CBA   -  Central Bank of Armenia
CG   -  Consultative Group
CIS   -  Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERC   -  Energy Regulatory Commission
ESAF - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW    -  Economic and Sector Work
FDI  -  Foreign Direct Investments
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
FY   -  Fiscal Year
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
GOA - Government of Armenia
IAS - International Accounting Standards
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA - International Development Association
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IMF - International Monetary Fund
LDP   -  Letter of Development Policy
MOSS - Ministry of Social Security
MIGA - Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NGO   -  Non Government Organization
OECD - Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
OME   -  Operation and Maintenance Enterprise
PFP   -  Policy Framework Paper
PIN -- Personal Identification Number
SAC   -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC   -  Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SHA   -  State Health Agency
SOE   -  State Owned Enterprise
USAID - United States Agency for lnternational Development
WTO   -  World Trade Organization
ARMENIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Leader: Hafez Ghanem, ECSPE
Responsible Staff: Lev M. Freinkman, Country Economist, ECSPE
Cyril Muller, Country Officer, ECCO3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Government of Armenia
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Finance and Economy
Amount:                SDR 35.6 million (US $50 million equivalent)
Terns:                 Standard IDA, with 35 years maturity
Commitment Fee:        A variable rate of 0.0-0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance, set annually by the
Executive Directors of IDA
Project ID Number:     AM-PE-5 1171
Objectives:            To support the Government's program to consolidate macroeconomic stability and to lay
the foundations for sust-ined private-sector led growth over the medium term. The
program includes measures to: (a) improve financial discipline in the private and public
sectors, so as to increase domestic savings, facilitate further external adjustment and
strengthen Armnenia's creditworthiness; (b) accelerate the development of the private
sector; and (c) ensure the social sustainability of the reform process and preserve
Armenia's stock of highly-skilled human capital.
Benefits:              The credit would provide the Armenian Government with financial support to cover the
short-terrn costs associated with continued econornic reforms. The credit will also
provide necessary foreign exchange to purchase imports critical for Armenia's economic
activity. The availability of low cost, non-inflationary budgetary financing will help
consolidate Arnenia's economic stabilization and finance its core social expenditures to
protect poor. At the same time, the reformn prograim supported by the credit will address
key bottlenecks and enhance the prospects for long-term growth and improved living
standards.
Poverty:               Poverty-focused. The proposed credit would support measures to improve targeting of
social benefits and strengthen the social safety nec. The program also includes actions to
reform the public pension system. The reforms in health and education have as a primary
objective to expand public provision and ensure equitable access to essential services.
Risks:                 The risk of significant policy reversals is small as there is widespiread consensus on the
need to pursue comprehensive market-oriented reforms. The major risks relate to
possible deterioration in the macroeconomic and political environment. This may happen
because of a stronger impact of the Russian crisis or weakening of the authorities' reformn
capacity that would arise from approaching elections and associated populist pressures.
There is also a risk is that current progress towarc[s resolution of the regional conflicts
will stagnate, restraining Armnenia's potential for export growth and dampening prospects
for external financing flows.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be: used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may nol: otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents
I.       The Economy ..........................................................                                             I
A.       Overall Strong Performance, Recent Slow-Down and New  Risks ....................                                   I
B.  Recent Economic Trends ................                                 ,                                               2
C.       Potential Impact of Russia Crisis on Armenia ............................................    3
D.       Medium-Term  Prospects ..........................................................                                  4
II.      The Government's Program  of Structural Reforms .......................................    7
A.       Achievements to Date ..........................................................                                    7
B.       Structural Reforms ..........................................................                                      8
(a) Strengthening public sector management and improving financial                                                9
discipline.
(b) Accelerating the development of the private sector .................................   12
(c) Social sector reform .........................................                                               14
III. The Proposed Credit .18
A.  Program Implementation and Credit Conditions .18
B.    The Proposed Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy.                                                             18
C. Project Implementation .22
D. Benefits and Risks .22
IV. Bank Operations .23
V.       Collaboration with Other Donors ..........................................................                        24
VI.      Recommendation of the President .........................................................   24
Annexes
Annex 1 Main Economic Indicators
Annex 2 Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3 Policy Matrix
Annex 4 Schedule A
Annex 5 Schedule D
Annex 6 Country at a Glance



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJIJSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
1.    Since 1997 Armenia has entered its second, more complex, stage of economic reforms.
The stabilization program, sustained since spring 1994, brought considerable macroeconomic
gains and helped establish a suitable policy framework for structural reforms. After slowing in
1997, the officially registered growth in Armenia has been about 7 percent thlis year. Annual
inflation is expected to fall under 8 percent, and the budget deficit to be less than 5.5 percent of
GDP. This sound macroframework has been complemented by exchange rate stability, expansion
in foreign direct investments and some export growth.
2.    These achievements, however, are not sufficient to ensure longer-terim sustainability of
economic growth in the Armenian economy. They are also much less than is required to address
both immediate social and macroeconomic challenges. At the same time, so far only a fraction of
potential investment resources have been mobilized. To becomre a success story, Armenia needs
to consolidate macrostabilization and revitalize structural reforms that slowed in early 1998. The
proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) would support the Government's efforts
to accelerate reforms in key sectors such as public sector management, private sector
development, energy, and social protection and improve quality of services in both health and
education. SAC III would also support further deepening and consolidation of several reforms
that were originally envisaged under SAC II and broaden the structural reform agenda to new
sectors. These new "second-generation" reform efforts would include civil service reform, fiscal
decentralization, and district heating.
I. The Economy
A. Overall Strong Performance, Recent Slow-Down and New Risks
3.    Overall, the Government has made considerable progress with implementation of its
reform strategy, with a good record in macroeconomic management, privatization, trade
liberalization and development of basic legislation supportive of market reforms. However,
following approval of the Second Tranche of SAC 11 in December 1997, reforms slowed. There
have been delays in expanding ESAF arrangements as well as in implementation of the structural
reform program -- in energy and irrigation (tariff policies), social protection (single vulnerability
benefit), and in health and education financing reforms.
4.     This happened due to, first, an apparent change in the strategy and tirning of energy and
social protection reforms. Presidential elections in early 1998 and associated personnel changes
in administration caused substantial delays and risked that the authorities would slip out of the
High Case Scenario as outlined in the CAS. Secondly, as Armenia embarked on a second, more
complex stage of reforms, the government administration was stretched beyond its capacity to
maintain the speed of the reform process. The Government continues to face serious opposition
regarding various aspects of the reform program, in particular the scope and timing of key



2
privatization transactions, reshaping of the social benefit system, and enactment of bankruptcy
legislation. Also, implementation of some policies was delayed because of the insufficient
technical capacity of several line ministries.
5.     Recent agreements with the Government on both the ESAF and SAC 11 unfinished
agenda suggest that the authorities are ready to re-energize their reform efforts. Simultaneously,
the GOA made a commitment to complete by late November, 1998 the remaining measures
envisioned within the policy package supported under SAC 11.
6.     The Government recognizes the high vulnerability of the Arnenian economy to the
unfolding Russia crisis (see below) and is ready to make additional adjustments in its policies if
necessary. However, the major risk related to the Government's policies, with or without the
crisis, over the next several months is political -- it is facing growing populist pressures in the
run-up to the mid- 1999 parliamentary elections. Meanwhile, the authorities have to make
decisive moves in several politically sensitive areas, such as an increase in electricity tariffs and
the reshaping of the family benefit system. Overall, however, Almenia remains stable, despite
recently increased internal political tensions, with a broad consensus between the Government
and opposition parties regarding longer-tern economic and political priorities for development.
B. Recent Economic Trends
7.     The economic performance of Armenia has been satisfactory in the last few years: GDP
growth rates are reported to have increased from 5.8 percent in 1996 and 3.1 percent in 1997 to
6.7 percent growth reported during the first 6 months of 1998, and the 1998 year-end growth rate
is estimated to be 7 percent. After year-on-year inflation of 8.0 percent in March, 1998
(following introduction of VAT on grain and a temporary rise in bread prices), there was
deflation in April-June. Inflation for the whole of 1998 is likely to be well below the 9.0 percent
target set by the government. The first six months of 1998 also saw a 9 percent reduction in the
trade deficit, with exports climbing by 31 percent and imports dropping slightly. Foreign reserves
have grown from US$ 240 million at the start of 1998 to about $330 million (equivalent to 3.5
months of foreign trade turnover). FDI inflows are reported to be US$ 98 million, or about four
times the level of 1997 in annual terms.
8.     These positive developments were supported by improvements in the external situation
of the country. Armenia's isolation from international markets has been significantly eased by the
recovery of the Georgian economy, rapidly growing trade with Iran, and greatly increased
informal trade with both Azerbaijan and Turkey. Nevertheless, the borders with these two
countries remain closed for official trade. The resulting blockade seriously limits the potential for
growth by driving up transportation costs and restricting investment activity. It is expected,
however, that over the medium-term, regional integration will continue to deepen, driven by
prospects for a regional boom linked to the development of Caspian oil, and by progress on
bilateral and multilateral negotiations on the regional conflicts.
9.     Recent growth has not yet resulted in noticeable improvements in living conditions of the
population. Poverty remains high, with 28 percent of population with incomes below the poverty
line. Unemployment is roughly 30 percent of the labor force.
10.    The collapse of the Russian ruble in the summer of 1998 led to a brief depreciation in the
value of the Armenian dram by 2.5 percent against the dollar in early September, but the dram



3
almost fully recovered due in part to limited intervention by the Central Bank. Simultaneously
with the Russia crisis, Armenia experienced an outflow of capital invested in Government
Treasury bills by non-residents, and the demand for longer-term bills (6-12 months) dropped.
The GOA subsequently announced its intention to cut the issue of new Treasury-bills for the rest
of this year.
11.    Still, the macroeconomic situation remains stable. Revenue performance has been
improving through 1998, exceeding the original government targets by more than 20 percent.
Major improvements occurred in taxation of both imported and excisable goods. The budget
deficit for the first nine months of 1998 amounted to 4.2 percent of GDP. The Government has a
strong macroeconomic management team with strict monetary discipline, a fully operational
Treasury, and effective cooperation between monetary and fiscal authorities. The Government is
not running any budget arrears in 1998. Expansion in dram broad money amounted to 10 percent
over the first nine months of 1998 and annualized velocity demonstrated a moderate decline.
Deposits in the banking system increased by 60 percent with the largest portion of the expansion
due to growth in dram deposits.
C. Potential Impact of Russia Crisis on Armenia
12.   The Russia crisis is likely to have a negative impact on the Armenian economy, though
its effects may not be felt much until early 1999. While drastic changes in the situation due to a
shift in market expectations are still possible, immediate risks for a severe crisis are thought to be
quite moderate. To some extent, Armenia is helped by its underdeveloped financial markets. The
relative size of the banking system is extremely small, the economy is undermonetized (dram
cash and deposits amount to less than 5 percent of GDP), the market depth for state securities is
limited (outstanding stock of the Treasury Bills (TBs) is less than 2.5 percent of GDP), and the
role of non-residents is moderate. As a result, in the short run, there is little risk of the Armenian
economy being seriously affected by any combination of banking crisis, unsustainable pressures
on the exchange rate, and outflow of short term capital. Official reserves have stayed at the level
of US$ 330 million in October, 1998, while dram broad money (cash plus deposits) amount to
less than US$100 million. In addition, the GOA has accumulated a substantial amount of
privatization proceeds (about US$ 40 million by mid-1998) held in a special account.
13.    However, over the period of several months, the impact of the Russia crisis may deepen
through the following primary channels:
*  Exchange rate pressures related to a growing current account gap: there is some possibility
for gradual depletion of reserves due to a joint impact of the following factors: (i) lower
exports to Russia and other CIS states simultaneously with increased imports (about 30
percent of total registered trade is within the CIS); (ii) less than expected external financing
due to a decline in investors' confidence, and a delay in disbursements of donor funds.
*  Fiscal pressures are expected to accumulate relatively quickly if the current trends continue.
The TB market has been shrinking over last two months and the GOA faces interest rates that
are considered to be prohibitively high. Interest rates reached 50 percent in September (15
percentage points above the mid-August level). The Government stopped new borrowings
through the TB market and made net purchases of maturing TBs in the last quarter of 1998.
Taking into account some current delays in disbursement of budgeted donor funding, the
overall financing gap for the last quarter may reach 1.5-2 percent of GDP, and, in absence of



4
additional donor assistance, the GOA will have to make a serious expenditure sequestration
effort (up to 20 percent of planned expenditures for the fourth quarter) that unavoidably
would have major social implications. The proposed SAC III will partially alleviate the
impact of these unexpected developments.
14.   The longer-term impact of the Russian crisis on Armenia's macroeconomic performance
could be quite serious. A specific feature of the Armenian economy is its very special type of
dependence on Russia. Several hundred thousands Armenians (300,000 according to some
estimates) are working in Russia and their transfers (while not all registered) constitute an
important source of overall household income and domestic demand. According to conservative
estimates, annual remittances to Armenia from Russia amount to $150-200 million (8-10 percent
of GDP). Ruble devaluation will lead to an almost proportional decline in the amount of this
flow. Moreover, if the crisis in Russia develops either towards hyperinflation or in a direction of
extensive government control, small private businesses in Russia, including those in the informal
economy, will be quite seriously affected. Most Armenians that work in Russia have been
affiliated with this particular part of the Russian economy. A drastic reduction in "Russian" cash
transfers may aggravate poverty and affect prospects for economic growth by depressing
demand-driven factors. Overall the baseline scenario assumes that growth could be lowered by
about 2 percentage points in 1999.
15.    Also, a substantial part of Armenian energy generation (the nuclear plant) is based on
inputs that have been heavily subsidized by Russia through trade credits. Currently, this financing
has stopped, which constitutes a risk to sustainable operations of the power sector.
16.   Another important longer-term channel relates to a possible decline in Russian
investments. Deals involving two large Russian banks have been already put on hold. Further
developments in the area of large privatization transactions could be crucial for determining
medium-term macro trends. Finalizing already announced transactions (including the one with
Gasprom) and sustaining the current rate of privatization over next several months would be
critical for currency support, regaining market confidence and easing fiscal pressures.
17.   On the structural side, the crisis may lead to a slowdown of reforms in several core
sectors such as social protection and energy. In particular, the potential crisis and explosion in
poverty incidence could put on hold the announced plan to reshape poverty benefits because the
Government may not like to take additional political risks in a drastically deteriorating social
situation. Simultaneously, in a crisis environment, the authorities may find it more difficult to
implement the financial rehabilitation plan in the power sector, including necessary increases in
the electricity tariff.
D. Medium-Term Prospects
18.    Economic Prospects. After some slowdown in 1999, caused by the impact of the Russia
crisis, the economic growth is expected to recover. Annual GDP growth of 6 percent is projected
for the coming decade, as the reform program deepens and initiatives to expand regional
cooperation develop. In the early years, these high levels of GDP growth are expected to result
primarily from higher capacity utilization (currently estimated at about 30 percent). Over the
medium term, as the potential for increased capacity utilization is gradually exhausted,
investment in new capacity will play an increasing role in generating growth. This will occur as
private sector confidence, both domestic and foreign, responds to the improved investment



5
climate, and as the financial sector plays a more effective role in channeling savings into
investment. Thus, the investment rate, which is currently around 12 percent, is targeted to rise to
about 17 percent by 2000 -- a level comparable to that of Central Europe.
19.   Growth is expected to be led by export demand both in FSU markets, as those economies
recover, and by increasing penetration of nontraditional markets, such as the Middle East and
Western Europe. So far, export trends have been quite volatile reflecting both the specific nature
of some of Armenia's main export products (e.g. jewelry and processed diamonds) as well as
instability of several of Armenia's major export markets. Exports (in volume terms) increased by
14.6 percent in 1996, by about I percent in 1997, and by 31 percent in the first six months of
1998 before the Russia crisis took effect. At the same time, trade data show significant
diversification into new markets: trade with FSU countries amounted to less than 30 percent in
the first haif of 1998, while this share amounted to 35 percent in 1996 and equaled about half in
1995. Export growth of 8-10 percent (in volume terms) is projected throughout the 2000-05
period, assuming continued improvements in relations with Armenia's neighbors. Infrastructure
investments designed to rehabilitate Armenia's transport and communications with neighboring
countries will significantly facilitate growth in external trade and the developmnent of the
country's transit potential. And Armenia's highly-educated and entrepreneurial labor force is a
source of comparative advantage in the region.
20.    Of considerable importance to the growth of exports are expectations of an easing of
regional tensions. Cease-fires in the Abkhazia and Nagomo-Karabakh conflicts have held for
four years, but comprehensive peace agreements are not yet in place. Progress towards peace in
either conflict would allow for the reopening of railroad routes to Russia (through Abkhazia or
Azerbaijan) or to the Persian Gulf (through the Nakhichevan region of Azerbaijan). Progress in
resolving the Nagomo-Karabakh conflict would facilitate the opening of the Turkish and
Azerbaijani borders to formal trade. This would reduce existing, constraints on external trade,
decrease transport costs and increase Armenia's attractiveness to foreign investors and to transit
trade.
21.    Overall, export growth is expected to come primarily from labor-intensive industries and
services, and to a lesser extent from agro-processing. A reduction in transport costs would also
allow for the recovery of exports of perishables, and certain minerals and heavier industrial
products which are presently constrained, if not completely impeded, by high trade and transport
costs. There is substantial potential for export of high-tech products, assuming a strong inflow of
the FDI over next several years. Armenia also has excess power-generation capacity and the
potential to become a base-load electricity exporter to Georgia, Turkey and Northern Iran.
Continued strong export growth, rising private transfers and factor receipts, coupled with a
gradual slowdown in the rate of growth of imports, should allow the current account deficit
(excluding grants) to decrease from its present level of about 21 percent of GDP to 10 percent by
the year 2005.
22.    The Government's macroeconomic policies aim to maintain annual inflation below 10
percent in 1999-2000. This objective is to be achieved through continued tight fiscal and
monetary policies, and through efforts to promote export growth and contain the current account
deficit. The fiscal deficit is targeted to remain at about 6.5 percent of GDP in 1999 and decline to
less than 5 percent afterwards, leading to an increase in domestic savings and freeing up
resources for private investment. Deficit reduction will be achieved through a combination of
improved tax performance and modest reductions in current expenditures. Tax revenues are



6
targeted to exceed 18 percent of GDP starting in year 2000, mainly through improved tax and
customs administration and through efforts to clear up tax arrears.
23.    External Financing Needs and Debt-Servicing Capacity. Armenia will continue to
require substantial external capital inflows to finance its transition to a market economy and the
alleviation of poverty (Table 1). Total debt-to-GDP ratios increased sharply in 1997 and
approached a level equal to 50 percent of GDP. This debt accumulation reflected an increase in
disbursements by multilaterals and the extension of some commercial loans to the private sector.
Domestic savings are not expected to turn positive until the year 2005 but the capacity to service
external debt is substantially enhanced by the high degree of average concessionality of external
financing. As a result, debt service indicators remain moderate over the period with the debt
service-to-export ratio reaching a high of 16 percent in 2005. The current medium term macro
framework for Armenia does not provide for further growth in the debt burden, which is expected
to stay around the current level. Debt service-to-GDP ratios remain under 5 percent for the full
period. Armenia's history of servicing its sovereign debt is good.
Table 1. Armenia: Balance of Payments and Need for Additional Financing, in millions of
US dollars.
1997      1998      1999       2000
Current Account (excl. official grants)   -408.7    -441.2    -459.2    -441.4
Exports                                  233.4     272.0      293.2     327.9
Imports                                  792.9     798.7      827.4     875.3
Services (Non-factor), net               -62.3     -40.5      -41.0     -49.7
Net Factor Income                        125.1      65.0       59.1      92.7
Private Transfers                         88.0      61.0       57.0      63.0
Capital Account                            303.7     286.7      266.4     294.1
Disbursements                            208.3      86.9      107.8     109.4
o/w World Bank Group                   76.3      37.5       92.8      52.6
Amortization                              24.2      24.3       32.4      44.1
Foreign Direct Investment                 51.1     138.0      100.0     135.0
Portfolio Investment                      16.0       15.0      25.0      33.8
Net Trade Credits                         52.5       71.0      66.0      60.0
Overall Balance                           -104.9    -154.6    -192.8    -147.3
Financing Items                            104.9      140.2     146.0       94.2
Official Grants                          154.4      123.0     141.0      120.0
Change in Net Reserves ( -  increase)    -56.1       9.2        5.0     -25.9
Change in Gross Reserves               -79.4     -35.6      -4.7      -10.1
IMF (net)                              23.3       44.8       9.7      -15.8
Change in Arrears( - = decrease)          -6.7      -8.0        0.0       0.0
Financing Gap                                0.0       14.4      46.8       53.2



7
24.    The Arnenia CAS suggested that IBRD lending to Armenia could resume is FY99, if its
debt sustainability and growth prospects remain intact. Armenia's creditworthiiness is under
review, and the expected positive assessment would lead to resumption of IBR.D lending in
sectors such as energy and finance.
25.    Private flows (excluding transfers) have not yet played a significant role in financing the
extemal deficit: foreign investment has been minimal, but showed some growth in early 1998.
Privatization of several major enterprises through intemational lender was instrumental for
attracting foreign investments. Commercial bank credit has been growing but remains small
relative to official sources of financing. As confidence in the Armenian economy grows, the
extemal position strengthens, and Armenia moves towards full commercial creditworthiness,
these sources of financing will become more important. In the meantime, the bulk of extemal
resources will continue to have to come from official sources, allbeit on a declining basis. For the
near term, private transfers from the Diaspora will also remain an important source of finance.
Closer cooperation between the Govemment and Diaspora organizations is also expected to
facilitate investment flows from Armenians living worldwide. Investments from the Diaspora
could become a trigger for overall expansion in FDI.
1I. The Government's Program of Structural Reforms
A. Achievements to Date
26.    The main objectives of the Government's economic program are to consolidate the
stabilization gains achieved through 1998 and to strengthen prospects for sustained economic
growth over the next 5-7 years. To this effect, the Govemment is committed to maintaining its
prudent macroeconomic policy stance, while continuing to deepen the comprehensive systemic
reforms already underway. The Armenian authorities recognize that further fiscal consolidation,
and continued progress on privatization, financial sector reform and energy sector restructuring,
are necessary underpinnings to continued economic growth. At the same time, they are firmly
committed to ensuring that the continued costs of transition are socially sustainable, and to
preserving Armenia's highly educated and skilled workforce. In this context, the Govemment
intends to make the reform of health and education a high priority in its reform program for
1997- 1998.
27.    The Armenian authorities initiated their stabilization program in the Spring of 1994
without significant extemal financial support, due to the constraints imposed by the Nagomo-
Karabakh conflict. However, the early successes of that program and the formalization of the
cease-fire in July 1994 allowed approval of a Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) in
December 1994. This was followed in June 1995 by the approval of a Stand-By Arrangement
(SBA), and in February 1996 by the approval of a three-year ESAF. The ESAF is intended to
achieve greater integration of stabilization and structural reform policies than previous
arrangements through programming over the medium term. A third annual anrangement under
the ESAF is expected to be approved by the IMF Board in December, 1998.
28.    Since 1994, with the cease-fire and easing of the blockade, the Government has been able
to reinvigorate its program of structural reforms. During the second half of 1994, there was
intensive dialogue between the authorities and the Bank on the design of a structural refonn
program. This culminated in the preparation and approval of a ,Rehabilitation Credit by IDA in



8
February 1995. The Rehabilitation Credit supported the initial policy reforms to promote the
development of competitive markets and of the private sector through privatization, liberalization
and regulatory reform. Implementation of the program during 1995 was generally strong and led
to the approval of a follow-up Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) in February 1996. The SAC
focused on furthering stabilization through restrained fiscal and monetary policies, and on
supporting wide-ranging structural reforms including further liberalization of the trade and
exchange system, privatization and enterprise restructuring, initiation of energy sector reforms,
and strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework for the banking sector.
Box 1. Some core reforms undertaken under the program supported by the SAC IH
Power Sector. Increase in electricity collections from commercial users and progress with
implementation of other elements of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan, such as cost cutting
measures, reduction in non-technical losses, and better payment discipline among public sector
consumers.
Privatization. Successful completion of the 1996-97 Privatization Program with about 2000 large
and medium size enterprises being privatized. The new 1998 privatization program, comprising
all enterprises left to be privatized, approved simultaneously with the amendments to the
Privatization Law.
Banking Sector. Three major banks were successfully restructured. Implementation of the IAS
has been initiated.
Property Rights. The Civil Code was adopted.
Health and Education. Share of budget expenditures on health and education increased in the
1998 budget. All expenditure arrears in these two sectors were eliminated. The State Health
Agency has been established.
29.   The Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 11) was approved in August, 1997 and
focused on core reforms in energy, privatization, health, and education. The implementation of
the LDP was uneven but, by the end of 1998, the Government has demonstrated increased
commitment and ownership with respect to the core program actions. Key measures implemented
under SAC II are presented in Box 1.
B. Structural Reforms: the Next Stage
30.   The Government program supported by SAC III is designed as an expansion of the
earlier program supported by SAC 11. The program can be divided conceptually into three
groups, all closely interlinked. The first set of reforms aims at consolidating macroeconomic
stability. This would be achieved through further strengthening public sector management and
improving financial discipline (particularly in public utilities). The second component focuses on
accelerating the development of the private sector through the completion of privatization,
enterprise and banking restructuring, development of capital markets and reinforcement of
property rights. The third set aims to strengthen the social safety net and facilitate the
comprehensive reform of health and education.



9
(a) Strengthening public sector management and improving financial discipline
31.    Despite notable progress, macro stabilization remains fragile, particularly on the fiscal
and external fronts. In this context, Armenia needs additional efForts on fiscal consolidation that
would provide further reductions in budget (especially quasi-budget) deficits, improved revenue
performance through stronger tax administration, increased cost-recovery in public utilities, and a
better use of limited public resources through improved expenditure control and expenditure
prioritization.
32.    Further decline in the consolidated public sector deficit (including its quasi-budget
portion) is of critical importance for accelerating private sector growth. It would have a direct
positive impact through reduction in domestic interest rates and lostering private lending. It
would also influence market participants indirectly by fostering confidence and therefore
investment. Fiscal tightening is the primary source for an increase in domestic savings, which
remains negative (-25 percent of GDP in 1997), and is necessary for both investments and
external adjustment.
33.    Direct fiscal measures supported by SAC IlI include elimination of tax exemptions and
actions to reduce tax arrears from the largest taxpayers, increases in rates for the tobacco excise
tax, and consolidation of sectoral extrabudgetary funds within the state budget. The Government
is also planning steps to improve the efficiency of public spending. The GOA will strengthen
operations of the Treasury and develop a multi-year expenditure framework. The latter would
help set up a systematic approach to design, financing and evaluation of major budget programs
with a focus on better investment planning and proper balancing between investment and critical
maintenance. The Government will receive technical assistance in these areas, funded from
SATAC 11 and bilateral sources.
34.    The Government has also started its program of fiscal decentralization and strengthening
capacity of municipal govemment (hamaiks). While this is a longer term effort, SAC III supports
GOA's initiatives on local budget equalization and expansion in the tax base of local
governments. Through adoption of new legislation, the Government would set new arrangements
for land and property tax: most of proceeds from these taxes will remain with local budgets, the
tax base of both taxes will be widened, and tax administration wilil be strengthened based on
better coordination between municipal governments and local branches of the tax service.
Stronger local governments are critical for the success of reforms in education and social
protection supported by SAC III.
35.    Energy-related subsidies, while having diminished over tihe last year, remain the main
target for short term fiscal adjustment. Operational subsidies in thte sector amounted to about 2.5
percent of GDP in 1998. It is therefore essential to continue strengthening financial discipline and
deepening the profound structural reforms in the energy sector, as well as in associated energy-
using utilities such as water supply and irrigation.
36.    Since the beginning of transition, the power sector has been a major source of quasi-
fiscal subsidies to the economy and population through low tariff, and low collections. This has
softened enterprise budget constraints, targeted social protection very poorly, decapitalized the
electricity sector, caused internal and external arrears accumulation, and constitutes a perpetual
threat to fiscal stability. In addition, the Armenian electricity seclor experiences high average
operating costs due to high technical losses, low demand, substanitial theft, aging plants, deferred



10
maintenance, and uneconomic dispatch practices in part related to operation of the nuclear power
plant.
37.    Since 1994, the Government has allowed a gradual removal of the quasi-fiscal role for
the sector. In 1997, this strategy was formalized, with Bank support, in a Financial Rehabilitation
Plan for the electricity sector, which combined debt restructuring, provision of working capital,
cost cuts, collection improvements and increased tariffs. This Plan was designed to achieve
financial recovery of the sector and to pave the way for privatization. The Plan was agreed with
the Bank in the framework of the SAC 11 and also was integrated into the IMF's ESAF.
Continued implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan is an integral component of the
High Case assistance program contained in the CAS. The emphasis on energy sector reforms
results from the enormous macroeconomic importance of the sector.
38.    Over the last 18 months the GOA made substantial progress implementing several
components of its sectoral reform strategy. In particular, an Independent Regulatory Commission
was set up, the regulatory framework has been strengthened, and the capacity for financial
analysis and tariff setting expanded. The Government succeeded with the major consolidation of
power distribution companies, in increasing electricity collections from commercial users, and in
the implementation of other elements of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan, including cost cutting
measures, reduction in non-technical losses, and better payment discipline among public sector
consumers. Reliability and quality of supply was drastically improved. The Government Decree
No. 555, adopted in September 1998, introduced additional measures to increase accountability
of managers for enterprise performance and to strengthen internal control, accounting and audit
requirements.
39.    The major delay with the implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan happened
in the area of electricity tariff adjustment. Originally, the tariff increase was planned to take place
in the first half of 1998 and was to cover inflation since the previous increase in September of
1997 and debt service costs on the debt restructured in 1997. However, this tariff increase has
been brought into the center of policy debates by political developments in Armenia.
Subsequently, the Government did not introduce the tariff increase envisioned under SAC 11 and
argued that such an increase be postponed until September 1999. The case is being made on a
mixture of social/political grounds and prospects of cost reductions and increased subsidies to
cover debt service and working capital (funded by privatization proceeds from the gas sector).
There were also considerable delays with the preparation of sectoral enterprises for privatization
and with instituting international accounting standards.
40.    The Bank staff have held extensive reviews with the Government of this issue during
1998. In summary, Bank staff have concluded that the cost reduction program contains mostly
measures to be taken in the future with uncertain outcomes. The extent of the increased subsidies
proposed is considered fiscally imprudent by both IMF and the Bank. In consideration of the
sociopolitical factors, and given that some cost reductions are legitimately to be expected, the
Government and the Bank reached an agreement in October on a compromise proposal of a
minimum 12.5 percent adjustment in the average electricity tariff, which would become effective
on January 1, 1999, and would be followed by in depth reviews, and if necessary, adjustments of
the tariff, every six months.



I1
41.    The tariff increase will be accompanied by improvements in the targetiing of social
transfers, which is also a core measure of the package supported by SAC 111, that will help
alleviate its impact on low income households.
42.    The Government also plans a number of other actions in the energy sector including a
decisive move on the privatization of the distribution companies; continued regulatory reform to
address issues of licensing and functioning of the wholesale market for electricity, as well as
setting a new structure in the gas sector; and the introduction of International Accounting
Standards (IAS). The new initiative to push for reforms in district heating is also important:
almost 25 percent of remaining sector subsidies are concentrated in district heating, while just a
limited number of urban households have access to this service.
43.    Without a solution to the structural problems of water and irrigation sectors, it will be
very difficult for the energy sector to attain a financially sustainable position. Total annual
operational subsidies in these sectors amounted to 1.5% of GDP in 1998. The Government
strategy for financial rehabilitation of irrigation and water supply is based on the positive
experience in the energy sector. Reforms are focused on tariff adjustment, improved payment
discipline and collections, and institutional reforms in the sector (e.g. separation of central and
local distribution companies for water supply). The budget allocations for the sector will be
adjusted to reflect realistic estimates of consumption in the public sector and by subsidized
consumers, and mechanisms of budget allocation and budget control will be approved.
44.    By its Resolution No. 117, the Government approved the Irrigation System Reforms
Program in February 1998. The program announced that the wholesale price in the sector was to
be increased by about 30 percent in 1998. However, this decision was not implemented and price
increase will be delayed until 1999. In fact the wholesale water tariff was reduced in 1998 from
2.95 dram per cubic meter to 1.9 dram per cubic meter. This was partially financed through
increase in budget subsides to the sector in the form of interest fiee 5-year budget loans. On the
institutional side, water users' consumer companies, co-operatives and other water user structures
have been created at the local level throughout the country.
45.    In its reform program, the GOA plans to move aggressively on the reduction of losses in
irrigation. In November, 1998, the Government finalized and made public its strategy for
financial recovery in the irrigation sector that outline: (i) a strategy for increases in wholesale
tariffs and collections; (ii) principles for tariff variation across parts of the system; (iii) new
mechanisms for establishment of retail prices; (iv) an approach to the resolution of the
accumulated stock of debt. The GOA will announce an increase iin average tariff by at least 20
percent for the 1999 irrigation season and follow-up increases for year 2000. Payments in kind
for irrigation water will be abolished. The cash collection target for 1999 is set up at 65 percent.
The GOA will also implement an action plan to expand provision of irrigation services at night,
which would bring substantial cost savings to the sector. The Bank will help with the
implementation of the plan by financing from the ongoing Irrigation Project a part of the cost of
purchasing and installation of electricity meters in the irrigation companies.
46.    In the water sector, the main focus of the program is on longer-term regulatory and
institutional measures that would provide for private sector participation in the sector and
streamlining of subsidy delivery mechanisms.



12
47.    The Government considers a comprehensive public sector management reform to be
another priority of its medium-term program. During the first stage, the Government plans to
focus reforms in the areas of civil service, control and audit functions, and identification of major
distortions in the structure and organization of the government administration. All of these areas,
and especially the organizational principles under which public servants are hired and operate,
are critical for the quality of public sector management and have direct budget implications.
During 1998, the Government established the Inter-Agency Working Group on Civil Service
Reform and identified medium term targets for reform implementation. The priorities for 1999-
2000, supported under the SAC 111, include: (i) finalizing the Law on Civil Service, which will
cover all the major areas in such a framework legislation: appointment, recruitment, performance
evaluation, promotion, rights and obligations of civil servants, discipline and appeal, wage
structure and non-wage benefits, and assignment of responsibility for civil service management;
(ii) strengthening the "center of the government", i.e. the Offices of the President and the Prime-
Minister, to expand their capacity for top-level decision making; (iii) conducting a service
delivery survey to assess user satisfaction with public services and provide a benchmark against
which progress and improvements can be judged; and (iv) introduction of international auditing
standards, streamlining operational procedures and elimination of possible overlaps in
responsibilities of various government control bodies.
48.    The Government also decided to lay down the foundation for a wider public sector
management reform during 1999. To this end, in late 1998, the Government will initiate a
comprehensive institutional review of the government functions and organizational structures in
cooperation with the Bank. The review will focus on strengthening the central policy formulation,
policy coordination and other core functions of the Government; identification of duplication and
overlaps in government functions; consideration of alternative modes of service provision;
options for discontinuation or phasing out of those functions which are no longer appropriate in a
market economy. Based on the review's recommendations, the Government will develop an
action plan consistent with its multi-year expenditure framework.
49.    Another Government priority in the public sector area relates to the ongoing judicial
reform. Effective implementation of the adopted laws in the commercial area, enforcement of
contracts and protection of property rights require stronger judiciary as well as further
improvements in the legal and regulatory framework.
(b) Accelerating the development of the private sector
50.    The core of the Government's reform program has been the stimulation of the private
sector. Almost all agricultural land was privatized in 1991, making Armenia the first FSU
country to do so. Privatization of enterprises started later, but has proceeded quickly, with most
small enterprises (more than 6500 or 82 percent of the total) and about 1400 medium and large
enterprises (about 70 percent of the total) privatized to date. In 1998 privatization of bakeries and
mills, the sector that originally had been excluded from privatization, was completed. At the same
time, Armenia has put in place the main elements of a private-sector friendly environment. A new
company law and laws on real property, banks and banking, collateral, bank insolvency and
commercial bankruptcy have been adopted. The Civil Code, adopted in 1998, made a significant
contribution to clarifying property rights, defining the formns of entrepreneurial activities as well
as a legal regime for commercial transactions.



13
51.    Most restrictions on the private sector have been dismantled, as have barriers to foreign
investment. However, enforcement of these laws remains weak, which presents a major
impediment for the effective development of the private sector.
52.    While the volume of private investments, including FI)l, increased substantially in 1998,
it is still insufficient compared to the country's needs. It is also small relative to the country's
large capacity for resource mobilization given the investment potential of the large Armenian
Diaspora. There is a need for additional improvements in the i;nvestment climate, including the
legal and regulatory framework, stronger contract enforcement, more effective and transparent
public administration (especially with respect to business registration and taxation), and greater
compliance with customs, sanitary, and other mandatory requirements. Primarily due to the same
reasons, a large portion of the private sector still operates in the informal economy. SAC III
would support several major reforms to improve the business climate for private sector
development.
53.    During 1999-2000, the Government is planning to complete the privatization process (by
privatizing about 200 large and medium size enterprises a year), along with efforts to strengthen
enterprise governance and promote enterprise restructuring. Al I of the remaining privatization
transactions will be on a cash basis, and the Government is making considerable efforts to attract
foreign strategic investors in several key enterprises, including those in power, water, jewelry and
other sectors. If successful, these flagship privatization transactions with foreign participation
could be critical for changing the existing image of the investment climate in Armenia and
stimulating further expansion in FDI. SAC III would also support reforms airned at the
privatization of reserve and publicly owned land.
54.    At the current stage of reforms, privatization has to be complemented by much stronger
pressure towards stricter financial discipline within the enterprise sector and enterprise
restructuring. Industrial enterprises (even privatized ones) have been slow to restructure. SAC III
would support Government actions to restructure and liquidate non-viable enterprises. In 1999
the Governrn't will liquidate at least 20 cases of large and medium enterprises that failed three
attempts to be privatized and arrange for sale of their assets.
55.    Strengthening property rights is another mechanism to accelerate enterprise restructuring
by providing new owners with tools to put pressure on enterprise managers. T o this end, the
Credit would also support measures to promote share registration in the centralized registry and
develop other elements of the stock market infrastructure. At the same time, SAC III would
support pending reforms on securing property rights: approval of the Law on Title Registration
and development of infrastructure needed for its implementation, and approval of the Laws on
Use of Agricultural Land and on Sale of Publicly Owned Land.
56.    The Credit would provide support to the Government's program for the completion of the
switch to International Accounting Standards (IAS) by banks and for the introduction of the IAS
in the core of the enterprise sector. In November 1998, the GOA approved a resolution on the
introduction during 1999-2000 of the IAS standards for state enterprises in irrigation and
drinking water sectors and in the airline, and additionally for 10 enterprises in the power sector.
The resolution would include (i) a description of about 20 stanclards to be introduced first; and
(ii) a list of SOEs (first wave) that will be involved in the process in 1999. In addition, the GOA
will take actions to encourage the introduction of the IAS by private companies. In 1999, the
Government will submit amendments to the Accounting Law that would introduce deadline of



14
January 1, 2001 for IAS conversion by all state-owned companies and by all private companies
above a certain size. The amendments wouild also require that publicly traded joint stock
companies (about 110 firms) complete conversion to the IAS in 1999.
57.    Further reforms in the banking system are important for raising savings, facilitating
private credit, and attracting existing informal capital flows into the formal economy. The size of
the Armenian banking system is still small, and the level of financial intermediation is not
consistent with country's high degree of macro stability and overall strict banking regulation.
Over the last several years, the Government was quite successful in promoting bank
consolidation, closing illiquid banks, gradually raising minimum capital requirements and
strengthening prudential regulations. The payments system was improved and 1998 saw some
noticeable expansion in bank deposits. Still much remains to be done. Under the SAC 111-
supported program, the Government will accelerate restructuring of two major Armenian
commercial banks that still have a substantial portion of publicly owned shares -- Ardshinbank
and Savings Bank. The combined share of these two banks in the total assets of the banking
system amounts to 12.5 percent. The GOA will sell remaining public shares in Ardshinbank in
the first half of 1999, based on (i) an international audit of the bank's 1998 financial statements
and (ii) a in-depth valuation of the bank assets and future proceeds.
58.    The Government will decide shortly on the preferential strategy for restructuring of the
Armenian Savings Bank (ASB). There are basically two main options to review: (i) the
conversion of ASB into a full service commercial bank, and (ii) the conversion of ASB into a
low-cost postal savings bank by closing many of ASB's existing outlets and finalizing an agency
agreement with the Post Office. The implementation of whichever solution the Government
favors, either of which would involve privatization, would proceed in an orderly fashion during
1999/2000.
(c) Social sector reform
59.    Poverty in Armenia is widespread. About 28 percent of the population were classified as
poor or very poor based on 1996 household consumption survey data. But poverty in Armenia is
of a transitional rather than structural nature -- the result of the sharp collapse of real incomes.
Sustained economic growth -- in which all households can share -- should therefore be at the
center of the longer-term poverty reduction strategy. In the short term, given Armenia's limited
fiscal resources, efforts to strengthen the social safety net must focus primarily on making better
use of the available scarce funds. This requires further measures to improve targeting of poverty
benefits; along with the elimination of implicit subsidies in public service provision to privileged
(but not necessarily needy) groups. Resources released through these two measures could then
be allocated to increase the real level of benefits delivered to the more vulnerable recipients.
60.    After substantial investments in preparatory work over last year, the Government is ready
to make a major adjustment in its social safety net by introducing a single vulnerability benefit
targeted to needy families beginning on January 1, 1999. The draft budget for 1999 calls for.an
increase in funding for poverty benefits of almost 50 percent. This additional funding,
accompanied by better targeting, will provide for a noticeable increase in the real level of benefits
(from 2,000-4,000 drams in 1998 to a minimum benefit of 7,000 drams in 1999).
61.    Table 2 reflects the proposed changes for the 1999 budget allocation on social assistance.
Overall, an increase in public funding will be complemented by a substantial shift towards better



15
targeting. The latter will be achieved through changes in the mrechanism of benefit allocation and
by reducing universal subsides in electricity, most of which went to the non-needy.
Table 2. Public expenditures on social assistance, 1996-99, Bin. Dram
1996   1997      1998      1999
Approved   Budget
Budget    Draft
Social transfers and child allowances               7.1   -10.5      14.9         0
Family benefits                                      0       0          0       21.4
Pension and unemployment benefits                 21.6   26.8        27.9       36.3
TOTAL                                             28.7   37.3        42.8       57.7
as % of GDP                               4.35    4.67       4.60       5.25
Memo: Implicit subsidies through lifeline electricity  0   3.9       11.7         0
tariff
62.    The Government is also finalizing a comprehensive Law on Social Assistance Transfers,
which will clarify social assistance objectives and approaches. It will introduce proxy means
testing as a primary targeting tool. The Ministry of Social Protection (MoSS) is making a serious
effort to upgrade the capacity of social assistance offices: it launched an active public information
campaign and also made progress on improving the social assistance formulae and outreach. In
particular, the Government's decision to involve local governments at the community level in
identification of recipients will help to improve targeting by reducing both errors of exclusion
and inclusion. In November, the Government approved a decree for the introduction of the single
vulnerability benefit and finalized most supporting regulations.
63.    The Government effort to reform the pension system vwill also contribute to strengthening
the safety net. The size of the average old age pension will be increased by about 30 percent in
1999. The GOA pension reform strategy has two main compornents: (i) to make improvements in
the existing PAYG system to ensure its sustainability, and, at tlhe same time, (ii) to start
preparation of a plan for longer-term pension reform that would eventually introduce a second
pillar to Armenia's old age insurance system.
64.    Strengthening of the existing pension system will be supported by tightening criteria for
eligibility; further streamlining of pension benefits, and rationatlization of both a collection system
for payroll taxes (including collection from self employed by simplifying the contribution
calculation) and payment mechanisms for pensions to recipients. Starting from 2000, social
pensions will be excluded from the list of social insurance benefits and be transformed into the
liability of the general budget. By mid-1999, the Government will start implementation of the
Personal Identification Number (PIN) system for social insurance/protection/taxation purposes.
65.    With respect to longer term pension reform, by June 1999, the Government will prepare a
Pension Reform Strategy that will: (i) define the model of pension benefits to be introduced in
Armenia; (ii) indicate the set of laws needed to implement the strategy and the succession of
adoption of these laws; and (iii) analyze the feasibility of introducing a second pillar in Armenia.



16
66.    A highly-educated, entrepreneurial labor force is one of Armenia's most valuable assets,
and a source of comparative advantage in the region. Yet the economic crisis and the collapse of
public finances have translated into a dramatic deterioration in the quality of education, and a
consequent drop in enrollments. A similar decline in quality and standards is evident in health. To
prevent deterioration of Armenia's human capital, SAC III includes measures to ensure that
increased levels of public financing are allocated to both health and education in the 1999 and
2000 budgets, and supports the introduction of monitoring systems to control both disbursement
and targeted use of budget funds. The Government is committed to the non-accumulation of
arrears in health and education financing. The GOA will adopt additional measures: (i) to
increase the efficiency of service provision in both sectors; (ii) to introduce adequate incentives
for practitioners; to reform financing mechanisms; and (iii) to facilitate the mobilization of
resources from private and community sources.
67.    The Government program in health will provide for an increase in overall budget funding
of the sector and at the same time will ensure a better use of public funds through their targeting
at a limited number of core serx ices, as well as through enhanced accountability of service
providers. An overall increase in budget financing is important because the current annual level
of US$ 11 per capita is not sufficient. By making amendments to the basic benefit package
(BBP), the GOA will ensure that public funds are focused on the delivery of the most critical
health services, including those that have a stronger poverty impact.
68.    As was envisioned under SAC II, in 1998 the Government established and staffed the
State Health Agency (SHA). The SHA is due to begin operations on January 1, 1999 and will
become the core of the new system of public financing in the health sector. Before end- 1998,
additional technical work will be completed to develop provider payment methods, refine the
administrative systems of the SHA, and develop management and financial information systems.
In addition, a separate Working Group has developed recommendations on amending the Health
Law to reflect SHA financing of health providers for BBP services.
69.    Starting in October, 1998, the administrative and payment systems of the SHA have been
piloted in 35 hospitals and polyclinics located throughout the country. The SHA is ready to
launch a public information campaign and is developing a training program to help prepare
hospital managers for the introduction of the new financing system. Based on these pilots, the
payment system for 1999 will be finalized. The existing administrative and technical constraints
dictate that the SHA make all attempts to keep its first year of operations as simple as possible.
Therefore, SAC III conditionality provides that the approved system would be capable of limiting
actual expenditures in line with available budget funding. There is a concern that adopting a
complex, open-ended payment system could cause the SHA to begin accumulating arrears.
70.    The Ministry of Health also approved the Primary Health Care Development (PHC)
Program, with the objective of improving the quality of primary health care and the outcomes of
the health care system at the local level. Eight model micro-projects in Ararat marz and two
projects in Yerevan, based on locally designed development action plans, will be approved
shortly. Outcomes of these pilots will be used for developing a hospital restructuring strategy,
which is another key measure supported by SAC III.
71.   In addition, the GOA's plan to increase tobacco excises and introduce additional steps to
strengthen tax administration of excisable goods would result in an increase in retail prices and,
in the longer term, would lead to a decline in tobacco consumption. Because cardiovascular



17
diseases are the chief cause of premature mortality among adults, this issue 'is particularly
important for overall health trends.
72.   In education, SAC Ill would support the implementatiion of a strategy for reforming
finance and management of school education and development of a strategy for reforming higher
and post-secondary technical education. In a way similar to the approach to health reforms, the
Government is increasing the education budget and will adopt the tools to raise the accountability
of recipients of public funds. The GOA decided to increase the share of education to 11 percent
of total current expenditure in 1999, and to provide for about an 8 percent increase in budget
expenditures (excluding investments) on education in real ternns. A larger portion of this increase
is allocated to general education, which would lead to further improvements in the structure of
sectoral spending.
73.   In early 1999, the GOA will approve plans for piloting, of rationalization, new school
status and a funding mechanism in the 1999-2000 school year and will set up mechanisms for
monitoring these pilots. The Government is committed to decentralization of school management,
to piloting the introduction of funding to schools on a lump sum per-pupil basis, and to associated
changes in school status and management structure. Rapid progress has been made over 1998 in
drafting the necessary legislation and in making the necessary provisions in the draft budget for
1999. In particular, in order to implement the pilot scheme in 1999, the government proposes to
introduce a specific budget line for this purpose, earmarking 2030 million drams to meet the
additional costs of piloting the new funding mechanism.
74.   In 1999, the Government will introduce, on a pilot basis, a per capita funding mechanism
in about 150 schools (10 percent of the total). At the same time, it will implement the transfer of
50 of these schools to hamainks, in the framework of its decentralization policy. The intention is
to use the pilot to compare the success of the new funding and school-based management system
for schools under marz (regional) and hamaink (local) authority respectively, and to extend the
system to a larger number of schools in 2000. It is appropriate to introduce the new funding
mechanism at the beginning of the new school year in September, 1999, as schools will assume
their new status in early 1999, once the necessary laws and decrees are in effect.
75.    The per capita formula will introduce a significant change in the existing funding
mechanism. Under the present system, financing norms are based on the number of classes, and
not on the number of pupils, as the main criterion for budget allocation across schools. The per
capita mechanism is designed to create appropriate incentives for rationalizing and consolidating
school operations. It will encourage schools to increase the class size and to use teachers more
efficiently, and will permit the use of budget savings for financing increases in teachers' salaries,
innovations or improving schooling conditions. Further clarifications of the finding formula will
be implemented in 1999-2000 to reflect unit cost differentials between primary and secondary
grades and between rural and urban areas; to take into account specifics of very small schools;
and to give relatively inefficient schools time to adjust to the new scheme.
76.    A draft Education Law was submitted to Parliament in October 1998. The draft
introduces several fundamental changes in the organization of primary and secondary schooling.
In particular, it endorses the principle of capitation funding, and provides public schools -- under
the authority of either the state or local government -- with the right to sign contracts, to raise
funds from private sources and to hold these funds in commercial bank accounts. The Model
Charter for Schools, providing a more detailed definition of school management arrangements



18
and the role of school boards, is also currently under revision. In addition, the Government has
embarked on the preparation of a number of regulations to support the transition to the new
system. They will determine minimum qualifications, certification and selection procedures for
school directors; school-level financial, accounting and reporting procedures; clarification of
roles, responsibilities and relationships between Ministry, marz, hamaink, school board and
school director; and composition of school boards and the selection process for school board
members. It is expected that the Law, Model Charter, and supporting regulatvons will become
effective in early 1999.
77.    The GOA is also planning several other institutional reforms in education: (i) setting up a
national system for pupil assessment and monitoring of standards in general education; (ii)
establishment of a system for licensing and monitoring of private and public universities; and (iii)
approval of a strategy for vocational and technical education.
III. The Proposed Credit
A. Program Implementation and Credit Conditions
78.    The proposed SAC III would support the implementation of the Government's program
described above. It would be a US$ 50 million operation, divided into three tranches. Box 2
presents the matrix of specific policy measures that the Government would have to implement
prior to release of the SAC III funds. The detailed reform program, including timetables for the
implementation of specific measures, is described in the attached Letter of Development Policy
(Annex 2). A task force drawn from the central and line agencies, and headed by the Minister of
Structural and Economic Reforms, has been established to monitor implementation of the
program.
79.    The Government's approval of a Privatization Action Plan, acceptable to IDA, for
electricity distribution companies constitutes an additional condition of effectiveness of the
Credit. The plan is expected to provide that at least the Yerevan Distribution Company will be
offered for privatization by June 30, 1999, with majority of shares offered to strategic investors,
and other distribution companies would be offered for privatization in 1999. International
privatization consultants acceptable to IDA will have been contracted to assist the Government
with the implementation of the plan.
80.    The program will involve several supervision missions. A set of performance indicators,
agreed to during negotiations and attached to the minutes of negotiations, will guide the
supervision and impact assessment of this operation.
B. The Proposed Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy
81.    The CAS presented to the Board in July 1997 aims at sustaining growth through the
development of the private sector, and at securing the social sustainability of the reform process.
The proposed SAC III operation supports continuation of structural reforms initiated under SAC
II and is a key pillar of this strategy. Measures to be supported under the operation -- stronger
public sector management; bank and enterprise restructuring; improved financial discipline in
public utilities; and reforms of social protection, health and education -- are essential to improve
the environment for private sector development and support social sustainability as well as



19
necessary to strengthen macroeconomic stability and creditworthiness. By seeking to maximize
the role of the private sector and fiscal discipline across the board, these measures also provide
the underpinnings for ambitious sectoral reform strategies -- in health, education, energy,
irrigation, water -- consistent with Armenia's limited public sector resources.
82.    The Government's Program, supported by the World Bank Group, comprises a
combination of inter-related policy initiatives and longer-term institutional building measures. By
its iiature, implementation of such a program goes beyond a single adjustment operation. A
sequence of SACs is proposed to respond to this policy and institutional environment.
83.    The proposed SAC III would be the fourth Bank Group adjustment operation in Armenia.
It is important for the country, which, despite major recent policy adjustments, still has limited
access to private capital markets and a negative savings rate. As was envisioned in the CAS,
Armenia continues to require substantial balance of payments support and, with the adverse
developments in Russia, for budgetary financing. By providing support through a quick
disbursing operation, the Bank will help to ease risks of macroeconomic instability associated
with the crisis in Armenia's main trade partners. Providing budget support is also critical to
reduce the social costs of market reforms.
84.    The Armenia CAS considered as its base line a High Case Scenario, under which the
Government was expected to sustain a high pace of structural reforms. At the same time, a
Medium Case Scenario, with a slower implementation of reforms in key sectors, such as power
and social protection, was also described in the CAS. As mentioned above, because of serious
delays in early 1998, the actual reform pattern was somewhere between these two scenarios.
Meanwhile, the Government has recently confirmed that it is ready to strengthen their reform
implementation efforts to ensure that Armenia remains under the High Case assistance program.
85.    The structure of the proposed Credit reflects this situaltion. It is suggested that the SAC
III be a back-loaded operation with a significant up-front policy conditionality. It was agreed
between the team and the Government that strong pre-Board actions are necessary to eliminate
early slippages against the agreed upon program and demonstrate a return to the High Case
Scenario
86.    SAC III has been prepared in parallel with the IMF's third annual review under the
ESAF program. It is expected that in mid-December the IMF Board will approve a revised macro
economy program and core structural reform policies to be implemented in 1999-2000. The fiscal
measures envisioned under the SAC IlI are consistent with the package proposed under the
ESAF, and complement the authorities' efforts to sustain macro stability.



20
Box 2. Matrix of Policy Conditionality
Sectoral areas      Measures taken prior to Board presentation    Measures to be taken prior to 2nd tranche  Measures to be taken prior to 3rd tranche release
release
1. Maintained        *  ESAF3 Program formally agreed (Board      *  Satisfactory macroeconomic performance.  *   Satisfactory macroeconomic performance.
sustainable              paper distributed).
macroeconomic
framework
2. Improve budgetary                                              *  The GOA will introduce a revised process   *  The GOA will approve the ftrst medium-term
management                                                            for budget planning, evaluation, and        expenditure framework (MTEF) for 2000-02,
management, in the context of a medium-     which will be consistent with a longer term
term expenditure framt work (MTEF).         macroeconomic framework.
3. Power sector:     *  The GOA updated the Financial             *  The GOA and the Energy Regulatory        *  The GOA and the ERC will have completed a
financial recovery       Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) as envisaged       Commission (ERC) will have completed a      second review with IDA of the
under Government Decree No. 555              review of the implementation of the FRP     implementation of the FRP and have agreed
*  The ERC announced: (i) a 12.5%               and have agreed on implementation of         on implementation of appropriate measures.
adjustment in average electricity tariff and  measures such as tariff adjustment,        The ERC would have adjusted tariffs, if
the revised tariff structure to be effective on  collection of arrears, and other measures  needed, in accordance with the requirements
1/1/99; and (ii) a timetable for bi-annual  defined in Decree 555.                      of the Energy Law.
tariff reviews.                          *  Overall collections (average for 1999)   *   International auditors would have completed
*  Overall collections for September-           would reach at least 87% of billings; (ii) at  their audit of the 1998 financial statements of
November, 1998 reached 85% of billings      least 84% of supply is billed; (iii)         Armenergo, Yerevan Distribution, and an
and all budgetary arrears to the energy      collections from commercial customers       additional distribution company.
sector were cleared                          average at least 92% of billing for 1999.    *  The power sector enterprises would have
*  The Prime-Minister issued a decision      *  The Government will approve its strategy     revalued their assets.
requiring appropriate authorities to prepare,  for heat supply and introduce subsidy  *  Overall collections (average for 1999) would
by June 30, 1999, a heat supply strategy for  cutting measures for the 1999-2000         reach at least 90% of billings; (ii) at least 86%
the country.                                 heating season.                             of supply is billed; (iii) collections from
commercial customers average at least 94% of
billing for 1999.
4. Power sector:     *  The GOA will announce a Privatization     *  The process of licensing of power sector    *   Bid evaluation for the Yerevan Distribution
Privatization and        Action Plan for electricity distribution     enterprises will be completed.              Company would have been completed and
Strengthening            companies to be implemented in 1999      *  The offering memorandum for the              negotiations started.
Regulatory               (effectiveness condition).                   Yerevan Distribution Company will be    *  The other three distribution companies will be
Framework                                                             approved and issued.                        offered for privatization.
5. Irrigation        *  The GOA issued a Decree adopting a multi-  *  The GOA will demonstrate satisfactory   *   The GOA will take steps to achieve 65% cash
year (1999-2005) financial rehabilitation    progress in the implementation of the       collections of user payments for the 1999
program for the irrigation sector.           financial rehabilitation plan. New          irrigation season as a whole.
irrigation tariffs for the 1999 season will    *  The GOA will announce, by 11/30/99, a new
be announced. In-kind paym, -ts will have   differentiated tariff for the 2000 irrigation
be abolished.                               season.



21
*  The GOA will mandate a new
organizational and management structure
in the sector.
6. Enterprise        *  The Prime Minister approved a Decree No.   *  The GOA will complete liquidation of at    *   The GOA will complete liquidation of at least
restructuring            663 to initiate in 1999 the liquidation of all  least 5 enterprises.                       15 additional enterprises.
enterprises that will have failed three  *  At least 20 additional official notifications   .  The GOA would provide satisfactory
attempts at privatization.                   of enterprise liquidation will be published.  implementation of the Decree 663.
*  The GOA advanced the liquidation process
of the 15 enterprises and publish official
notifications of their liquidation.
7. Restructuring the    *  The Prime-Minister approved a Decree to    *  The GOA will complete privatization of
Banking Sector           order preparation of the development          Ardshinbank or initiate bankruptcy
strategy for the Savings Bank.               proceedings for this bank.
8. Strengthen        *  The GOA approved regulations for the                                                    *   Selected SOEs in irrigation, drinking water,
accounting system        introduction in 1999-2000 of the core IAS-                                                 power sector and the airline will complete
consistent accounting standards and                                                       switch to the IAS.
conversion of the enterprise sector to IAS-
consistent accounting.
9. Restructuring in  *  The Ministry of Education submitted        *  The GOA will approve the plan for         *   The GOA achieved satisfactory progress in
education and health     revised plans for piloting of rationalization,  piloting of school rationalization and    the implementation of the school pilots, with
sector                   new school status and funding mechanism       related regulations.                         the first phase of rationalization started in at
in school year 1999-2000 for 150 schools.    *  The GOA will approve its hospital         least 3 educational zones, and new school
e 1999 budget draft provides for tneshareof  rationaiization plan that would provide for  status and funding mechanisms introduced in
allocated to education to 1 1% of current    reduction of excessive capacity in the       150 schools.
expenditures and to health to 11% of         sector.
current expenditures.
10. Strengthening    *  The GOA adopted a Decree to modify the    *  The GOA will submit to the Parliament a    *   The GOA will implement specific steps to
Social Assistance and    existing system of social benefits from .     Draft Law on State Benefits, which will      strengthen sustainability of the existing
Insurance                1/1/99, and made it fully consistent with     provide a comprehensive legal framework      pension system, which will be based on the
1999 budget allocations for social           for family benefits.                         following principles: (i) tightening eligibility
protection.                                                                               criteria; (ii) strengthening enforcement
mechanisms for collection of pension
contributions; (iii) rationalization of payment
mechanisms for pensions; (iv) transferring
social pensions from the list of social
insurance benefits.



22
C. Project Implementation
87.    Credit amount and borrower. The proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC
111) of SDR 35.6 million (equivalent of US$50 million) would be made to the Republic of
Armenia represented by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Disbursements under the
proposed SAC III will be to the CBA, and an account of the Ministry of Finance and Economy at
the CBA will be credited with the dram equivalent at the official exchange rate of the day. The
official exchange rate to be applied will be determined by the inter-bank foreign currency auction
market. The Government will thereby receive non-inflationary budget support. The foreign
exchange proceeds of the proposed SAC III will be sold by the CBA or will be held in reserves,
in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy. The proposed SAC Ill will be released in
three installments: the first on effectiveness and the second and third on fulfillment of the
specific tranche release conditions outlined above, and if general progress on implementation of
the LDP (including attainment of its ma.oeconomic stability objectives) is also satisfactory. The
first tranche (equivalent of US$10 million) will be disbursed upon effectiveness and will be
triggered by implementation of core actions listed above. The following tranches (equivalent of
US$20 million each) are expected to be disbursed at six month intervals. The credit would be on
standard IDA terms, including a 35 year maturity and a 10 year grace period.
88.   Disbursements. The Borrower will open an account in the CBA. Upon notification by
the Association of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the credit will be deposited by the
Association in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-
member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Association will require
the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b)
refund the amount directly to the Association, in which case the Association will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit.
89.   Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date. Although routine audit of the Deposit Account
will not be required, the Association reserves the right to require it. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed within six months of the release of the third tranche. It is therefore proposed that
the closing date of the credit be June 30, 2000.
90.    Environmental Safety. The project will have no direct impact on the environment. For
the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it has therefore been placed in Category C which
does not require an environmental assessment.
91.    Poverty Category. The proposed credit is poverty-focused since it will support
improvements in the targeting of social benefits to the poorest groups. In addition, the credit
supports measures to expand public provision of basic health and education services, improve
their quality and to ensure equitable access to those services, especially by the poor.
D. Benefits and Risks
92.    The Credit provides an opportunity to help the Armenian Government sustain macro
stability without drastic cuts in budget expenditures, i.e. at much lower social costs. This
constitutes a major short term potential benefit of the operation. Longer term benefits relate to
acceleration of reforms in key structural areas. In addition, Bank Group's support for the
Government program would be an important signal for market participants regarding Arnenia's



23
country risks. It would help authorities to restore market borrowing at acceptable interest rates
and accelerate progress with major privatization transactions.
93.   Potential risks relate to a possible deterioration in macroeconomic and political
environments. This may happen because of a stronger impact of the Russian crisis or weakening
of authorities' reform capacity arising from approaching elections and associated populist
pressures. Among the major challenges, sustaining stabilization, deepening social protection and
energy sector reforms, and strengthening public sector institutions have been and are likely to
remain at the forefront of the policy dialogue.
94.    There is also a risk that current progress towards resolution of the regional conflicts will
stagnate, restraining Armenia's potential for export growth and dampening prospects for external
financing flows. The cease-fire in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict has held since May 1994, and
progress has been made in peace negotiations. However, there is still a risk of a resumption of
hostilities and a consequent worsening of Armenia's economic isolation.
95.    Preparation of the proposed operation was preceded by sector work and policy dialogue
to mitigate the risks of the operation. This work was instrumental in building a broader consensus
regarding reform policies and in a more accurate evaluation of major barriers to reform
implementation. The key areas of recent economic analysis include assessment of poverty and
efficiency of the social safety net, an analysis of public expenditures in education and health, a
evaluation of the business environment, a review of financial flows in the energy sector, and a
strategy note for civil service reform. The results and recommendations of this work were shared
with and agreed with the key members of the Government and were reflected in the design of the
measures supported by SAC 111.
IV. Bank Operations
96.    SAC Ill-supported policy reforms are necessary for the success of several Bank projects,
under implementation and under preparation. Strengthening the banking sector, developing
capital markets, completing privatization and securing property rights are all important to the
success of the Enterprise Development (FY97), the Agriculture Reform Support (FY98), and
Title Registration (FY99) projects. Improved financial discipline in energy, water supply and
irrigation are key to the reforms efforts in those sectors, supported through the Electricity
Distribution and Transmission (FY99), Municipal Developmlent (FY99) and Irrigation (FY95)
projects. Putting in place an appropriate policy framework for comprehensive reform of the
health and education sectors is a prerequisite for successful irnplementation of the Health (FY98)
and Education (FY98) projects. At the same time, the country investment lending portfolio is
designed to support the SAC program. The above-mentioned projects in agriculture, education,
health, electricity and municipal services will deepen the reforms supported by SAC 111, and will
provide institution building and detailed implementation support that is needed for their success.
A technical assistance credit (SATAC 11), prepared in parallell to SAC II, is currently under
implementation and would support implementation of several measures contained in the LDP.



24
V. Collaboration with Other Donors
97.   As was a case in earlier adjustment operations in Armenia, cooperation with the IMF
continues to be very close and extensive consultation has taken place in the preparation of the
proposed SAC 111. A three-year ESAF was approved in February, 1996. A third annual
arrangement under the ESAF has been prepared, and is expected to be presented to the IMF
Board in December, 1998.
98.   To minimize the risk of underfunding of the reform program and to facilitate
coordination of external assistance, the Bank and the IMF have organized Consultative Group
(CG) meetings for Armenia. A CG meeting was held November, 1994 to mobilize balance of
payments financing to complement the IDA Rehabilitation Credit and the STF from the IMF. The
second and third CG meetings were held respectively in May, 1996 and December, 1997 to
mobilize quick-disbursing funds and investment financing. The New Donor Financing Meeting is
expected to be held in late 1998 to mobilize additional assistance for Armenia that would help the
Government to alleviate impact of the Russia crisis. The Government's capacity for donor
coordination is growing. The Aid Coordination and Management Center (located within the
Ministry of Finance and Economy) has proved to be effective at organizing regular donor
coordination meetings in-country and at disseminating information on Government assistance
priorities and donor programs.
99.   Cooperation between ti.e Bank and other major donors is also excellent. The
Netherlands, Japan, the United States, the European Union, and Germany are cofinancing or
planning to cofinance different investment projects. The Bank, EBRD, and the Governments of
Germany and the United States have worked closely together on the energy sector reforms, and
will continue to do so in the future, to avoid duplication and maximize the synergies of external
support. The Bank is cooperating with UNDP and UNICEF in its poverty alleviation and social
sector strategies, and with the EU and the USAID on various programs of institutional building.
VI. Recommendation of the President
100.  1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
IDA and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Caio Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
November 24, 1998



11/24/98                                                                                                                                                       Annex I
Armenia: Main Economic Indicators                                                                    Page I of 3
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005      2006       2007
Real Growth Rate
GDP                                           5.8%      3.1%      6.9%      5.0%      7.5%       7.0%      6.0%      6.0%      6.0%       6.0%      6.0%      6.0%
Private Consumption                           6.5%      1.9%      2.2%      1.1%      4.7%       5.2%      4.0%      4.2%      2.7%       3.1%      4.0%      5.1%
Inflation (average)                          18.6%      14.0%     10.8%     9.1%      9.6%       9.4%      8.5%      6.0%      6.0%       6.0%      6.0%      6.0%
Inflation (end of period)                     5.8%     21.8%      8.0%      9.5%      9.3%      9.0%       7.0%      6.0%      6.0%       6.0%      6.0%      6.0%
Exports (GNFS)                                14.6%     1.2%      7.1%      5.2%       7.4%      9.8%      9.5%      9.0%      8.8%       8.4%      8.1%      7.9%
Imports(GNFS)                                 8.2%      3.3%      1.5%      2.5%       5.0%     6.1%       5.6%      5.3%      5.1%       5.0%      5.0%      5.0%
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005       2006      2007
As % GDP
Exports                                      23.1%     20.3%      20.40%    19.9%     20.2%     20.6%     21.3%     22.0%      22.6%     23.3%      23.8%     24.4%
Imports                                      55.7%     58.5%      51.1%     48.3%     47.1%     45.7%     44.4%     43.3%      42.2%     40.9%     39.6%      38.3%
Resource Balance                             -32.6%    -38.2%    -30.7%    -28.4%    -27.0%    -25.0%    -23.1%    -21.4%    -19.5%     - 17.6%    -15.7%    -13.9%
Current Account (Incid Grants)               -15.0%    -15.6%    -17.2%    -15.7%    -15.6%    -13.9%    -12.7%    -12.1%    -115%       -99%       -8.5%     -6.8%
Cuirrent Aecouint  Fxcid Grants)             -262%    -251%    -2.9        -22.7%    -21.1%    -18.6%    -16.1%    -14.5%    - 12.8%    - 11.1%    -9.3%      -7.5%
Domestic Savings (cxcl PrvTransf)            -24.9%    -28.8%    -18.6%    -14.9%    -12.1%    -9.4%      -6.7%      -4.4%     -0.4%      3.1%      5.7%      7.6%
Prv Transfers                                 4.1%      5.4%      3.3%      2.8%       3.1%      3.7%      4.5%      4.5%      4.6%       4.7%      4.8%      4.9%
Domestic Savings (incl Prv Trn)              -20.8%    -23.4%    -15.3%    -12.1%    -9.0%      -5.7%     -2.2%      0.1%      4.3%       7.8%      10.5%     12.5%
Consumption                                  124.9%    i28.8%   1i8.6%   114.9%   112.i%   109.4%  106.7%  104.4%    100.4%    96.9%                94.3%     92.4%
o/w: Public                                 12.1%     12.9%     11.6%     12.6%      12.7%     12.4%     12.3%     12.2%      11.7%     11.5%     11.2%     10.9%
Investment                                    7.7%      9.4%      12.1%     13.5%     14.9%     15.7%     16.5%      17.0%     19.2%     20.7%      21.5%     21.5%
o/w: Public                                 4.1%      4.4%       7.3%      6.5%      7.2%      7.3%      7.2%       7.1%      7.1%      7.0%       7.0%      7.0%
Government Revenue                            17.7%     19.8%     21.3%     21.7%     21.8%     21.8%     21.9%      21.9%     22.1%     22.5%      22.9%     22.9%
o/w: Tax Revenue                            12.9%     16.4%     18.2%     18.4%      18.6%     18.7%     19.0%     19.3%      19.9%     20.3%     20.7%     20.5%
Government Expenditure                       26.2%     25.7%      28.0%     28.3%     26.9%     26.7%     26.0%      25.1%     24.7%     24.6%      24.5%     24.3%
Fiscal Deficit (ncld Grants)                 -8.6%      -5.9%     -6.7%     -6.6%     -5.1%     -4.9%      -4.1%     -3.2%     -2.5%     -2.1%      -1.7%     -1.5%
Fiscal Deficit (Excid Grants)                - 10.0%    -7.4%     -7.7%     -7.8%     -6.2%     -5.7%      -4.8%     -3.5%     -2.5%      -2.1%     -1.7%     -1.5%



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
Armenia: Balance of Payments (millions of US dollars)
1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002      2003      2004      2005      2006     2007
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                           290.3    233A4    272.0    293.2    328.4    377.5    431.2    489.2    554.0    624.8    702.2    787.7
Nonfactor Services                                   77.7      96.5     105.4    108.6    115.7    124.9    133.1    144.7    157.2    170.8    185.5    201.6
Exports ofGNFS                                       368.0    329.9    377.4    401.8    444.1    502.4    564.3    633.8    711.2    795.5    887.8    989.3
Merchandise Imports (FOB)                           759.7    792.9    798.7   827.360   875.321   932.3    989.8    1051.0   1113.1    1175.1   1237.8   1302.3
Nonfactor Services                                   128.5    158.8    145.9    149.2    162.6    179.5    187.9    199.5    211.7    223.5    235.9    250.3
Imports ofGNFS                                       888.2    951.7    944.6    976.6    1037.9   1111.8   1177.7   1250.4   1324.8   1398.5   1473.7   1552.7
Resource Balance                                    -520.1   -621.8   -567.2   -574.8   -593.9   -609.4   -613.4   -616.6   -613.7   -603.0   -585.9   -563.4
Net Factor Income                                    35.6      125.1     65.0     58.1      61.5      65.5     66.6      67.8      66.7      63.9      61.0     57.5
Factor Payments                                     33.9      37.6     35.9      35.3      40.0     43.5      48.3      53.4     61.0      70.0      79.8      89.9
o/w: Interest                                     20.9      24.6      21.2     21.5      27.2      29.9     32.4      34.3      37.4      40.0      41.2     40.8
o/w: Profit Remittances                            13.0     13.0      14.7      13.8     12.8      13.7      15.8     19.1      23.6      30.0      38.6     49.1
Factor Receipts                                     69.5      162.7    100.9     93.4      101.5    109.0    114.9    121.2    127.7    133.9    140.8    147.5
Private Transfers                                    66.1      88.0      61.0     57.0      68.0      90.0     120.0    130.0    145.0    160.0    180.0    200.0
CurrentOfficialGrants                                178.8    154.4    123.0    141.0    120.0    115.0    90.0          70.0      41.0      40.0      30.0     30.0
Current Account Balance (Incid Grants)              -239.7   -254.3   -318.2   -318.7   -344.3   -338.9   -336.8   -348.8   -360.9   -339.1   -314.9   -275.8
Current Account Balance (Exc1d Grants)              -418.5   -408.7   -441.2   -459.7   -464.3   -453.9   -426.8   -418.8   -401.9   -379.1   -344.9   -305.8
Capital Account                                      239.7    254.3    318.2    318.7    344.3    338.9    336.8    348.8    360.9    339.1    314.9    275.8
Foreign Direct Investment                            18.0      51.1     138.0    100.0    138.0    145.0    172.0    182.0    205.0    230.0    240.0    245.0
Portfolio Investment                                  7.2      16.0      15.0     25.0      34.5     36.3      43.0      45.5      51.3     57.5      60.0      61.3
Net Long-Term Loans                                  173.2    184.1      77.0     122.7    137.7    137.3    115.0    127.9    119.7         71.6      19.9    -27.6
Disbursements (excl.IMF)                            227.2    208.3    101.3    155.1    181.8    169.1    146.1         175.4    186.3    157.2    122.7       76.7
o/w: GAP                                           0.0       0.0      14.4     47.3      72.4      55.7     36.9      79.9      101.4     86.1      71.8     40.7
Amortization (excl. IMF)                            54.0      24.2      24.2     32.4      44.1      31.8     31.2      47.5      66.6      85.6     102.8    104.3
Change in Arrears ( =decrease)                       -0.9     -6.7      -8.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Net Trade Credits                                    51.6      52.5     71.0      66.0      60.0     30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0
Changc in Gross Reserves (-=increase)                -60.4    -79.4    -35.6       -4.7     -10.1     0.0      -4.7      -13.6    -13.1      -19.6    -10.6    -17.2
IMF Credit (net)                                      49.2     23.3      44.8      9.7      -15.8     -9.6     -18.5    -23.0    -31.9    -30.4    -24.4    -15.6
Memo:
GDP (mil US $)                                     1594.8   1627.7   1847.9   2023.9   2203.2   2435.1   2650.9   2885.8   3141.6   3420.0   3723.1   4053.0
Average Exchange Rate (Dram/$)                      414.0    490.6    510.0    552.0    604.0    645.5    682.0    703.9    726.5    749.9    774.0    798.8
Real Exchange Rate 1/ (1995=100)                    81.6      77.9     75.2      74.3      75.5     75.1      75.1      75.1     75.1      75.1      75.1      75.1
TermsofTrade (1995=100)                             102.2     87.3     95.4      95.7      97.3     99.3      101.5    103.7    106.1    108.8    111.9    115.1
Reserves in Months of Imports                       2.3       3.1       3.6      3.6       3.1       3.1      3.1       3.1       3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0
1/ Decrease =Appreciation



Armenia: Debt Indicators
11/24/98                                                                                                                                                      Annexl
Page 3 of 3
1995      1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007
TotalDOD(US$M)                               373.8    611.5    800.7    822.8    946.6    1067.9    1195.1    1291.3    1396.2   1483.9   1525.1    1520.6   1473.9
Debt Service (US$M)                          62.81     74.94     48.8      46.0      66.6      87.1      71.3      82.1      104.8     135.9     156.1     168.4    160.7
DODpercapita($)                              99.3      161.8    211.2    216.7    248.9    280.3    313.2    337.5           363.4     384.2    392.3      388.4    373.8
Total Debt/GDP                               29.1%     38.3%     49.2%    44.5%     46.8%     48.5%     49.1%     48.7%     48.4%     47.2%      44.6%     40.8%     36.4%
Debt Service/GDP                             4.9%      4.7%      3.0%      2.5%      3.3%      4.0%      2.9%      3.1%      3.6%      4.3%      4.6%      4.5%      4.0%
Interest/GDP                                 1.0%      1.3%      1.5%      1.1%      1.1%      1.2%      1.2%      1.2%      1.2%      1.2%      1.2%      1.1%      1.0%
Debt Service/Total Exports                   20.4%     17.1%     9.9%      9.6%      13.5%    16.0%      11.7%     12.1%     13.9%     16.2%     16.8%     16.4%     14.1%
DOD/Export                                  121.4%    139.8%    162.5%    172.0%    191.1%    195.7%    195.5%    190.1%    184.9%    176.9%    164.1%    147.8%    129.7%
IBRD Debt (US$M)                              5.2       10.6      11.0      10.8     10.4      13.2      24.0      42.8      71.4      110.6    143.7      164.3    173.9
IBRDDebtServiceDue(US$M)                      0.1       0.4       0.6       0.8       1.0       1.2       2.0       3.1       4.5       6.6       13.1      16.8      17.8
IBRD Debt/GDP                                0.4%      0.7%      0.7%      0.6%      0.5%      0.6%      1.0%      1.6%      2.5%      3.5%      4.2%      4.4%      4.3%
IBRD Debt/Total DOD                          1.4%      1.7%      1.4%      1.3%      1.1%      1.2%      2.0%      3.3%      5.1%      7.5%      9.4%      10.8%     11.8%
IBRD Debt Service/GDP                        0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.2%      0.2%      0.4%      0.5%      0.4%
IBRD Debt Service/Total Exports              0.0%      0.1%      0.1%      0.2%      0.2%      0.2%      0.3%      0.5%      0.6%      0.8%      1.4%      1.6%      1.6%
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service         0.2%      0.6%      1.3%      1.8%      1.4%      1.3%      2.9%      3.8%      4.3%      4.8%      8.4%      10.0%     11.1%
IDA Debt (US$M)                              93.7      178.6    254.5    292.0    384.8    434.1         474.9    513.3      546.2     570.9    580.7    581.1       577.5
IDA Debt Service Due (US$M)                   0.3       1.0       1.6       2.0       2.5       3.0       3.4       3.7       3.9       4.2       7.3       12.1      12.2
IDA Debt/GDP                                 7.3%      11.2%     15.6%     15.8%     19.0%     19.7%     19.5%     19.4%     18.9%     18.2%     17.0%     15.6%     14.2%
IDA Debt/Total DOD                          25.1%      29.2%    31.8%     35.5%     40.7%     40.7%     39.7%     39.8%     39.1%     38.5%      38.1%     38.2%     39.2%
IDADebtService/GDP                           0.0%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.2%      0.3%      0.3%
IDA Debt Service/Total Exports               0.1%      0.2%      0.3%      0.4%      0.5%      0.6%      0.6%      0.5%      0.5%      0.5%      0.8%      1.2%       1.1%
IDA DebtService/Total DebtService            0.5%      1.3%      3.3%      4.4%      3.8%      3.5%      4.7%      4.5%      3.8%      3.1%      4.7%      7.2%      7.6%
World Bank Debt/Tot DOD                      26.4%     30.9%     33.2%     36.8%     41.8%     41.9%     41.7%     43.1%     44.2%     45.9%     47.5%     49.0%     51.0%
PreferredCreditorsDebt(US$M)                 206.6    349.0    463.0    537.0    635.5    691.8          759.9    815.0    863.7       886.5     886.1     862.6    835.0
Preferred Creditors Debt Service Due (US$M)   4.2       7.4       13.2      18.7     31.2      36.0      31.9      42.7      55.0      76.2      86.9       90.1      75.1
PreferredCreditorsDebt/GDP                   16.1%     21.9%    28.4%     29.1%     31.4%     31.4%     31.2%     30.7%     29.9%      28.2%     25.9%     23.2%     20.6%
PreferredCreditors Debt/Total DOD            55.3%     57.1%     57.8%    65.3%     67.1%     64.8%     63.6%     63.1%     61.9%      59.7%     58.1%     56.7%     56.7%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service / GDP       0.3%      0.5%      0.8%      1.0%      1.5%      1.6%      1.3%      1.6%      1.9%      2.4%      2.5%      2.4%      1.9%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service / Total Exports    1.4%  1.7%   2.7%      3.9%      6.3%      6.6%      5.2%      6.3%      7.3%      9.1%      9.4%      8.8%      6.6%
PreferredCreditorsDebtService/TotalDebtServi  6.7%     9.9%      27.1%    40.7%     46.8%     41.4%     44.8%     52.0%     52.5%      56.1%     55.7%     53.5%     46.8%
Preferred Creditors include World Bank, IMF, and EBRD.
All debt is public or publicly guaranteed except a loan of $75 million from Siemens to Armentel.
All debt frigures reflect rescheduling of the two EU loans from 1992 and 1993 which are assumed to be paid off with a combination of grants and a loan from the EU
with no grace, 2 yr maturity, and interest rate of 0.5*ECU LIBOR.
Total Debt and Debt service figures include the GAP which 25% of it is assumed to be financed through grants and the remaining 75% through borrowing at 12 yr maturity, 2 yr grace and 3% interest rate.



Annex 2 Page I of 10
Republic of Armeniia
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY'
1.    The main objective of the Government's economic refortri program is to strengthen prospects for
sustained economic growth over the medium term. To this effect,, the Government is committed to
maintaining its prudent macroeconomic policy stance, while continuing to deepen the comprehensive
systemic reforms already underway. The Government recognizes that strengthened public sector
management, improved financial discipline in sectors such as energy, irrigation and drinking water, and a
more dynamic private sector are needed to sustain economic growth. At the same time, the Government
is firmly committed to ensuring that the continued costs of transition are socially sustainable, and to
preserving Arnenia's highly educated and skilled workforce.
Macroeconomic Stability
2.    The Government's macroeconomic policies aim to maintain annual inflation (on an end-period
basis) below 10 percent, increase real GDP by at least 4 percent, and maintain the CBA's gross external
reserves to an equivalent of 3.6 months of inports of goods and non-factor services during 1999.
However, if trends in the external environment turn to be more favorable, the macroeconomic and
structural policies of the Government would result in real GDP growth of at least 6 percent. These
objectives will be achieved through continued tight fiscal and monetary policies, and through efforts to
promote export growth and contain the current account deficit. The fiscal deficit is targeted to remain at
the level of 6.2 percent of GDP in 1999. The current account deficit will remain high and is expected to
be 22 percent of GDP (excluding official grants) in 1999. The exchange rate regime will remain flexible.
In the face of possible depreciation pressures arising from the Russia crisis, the CBA will tighten credit
policies and will use reserves to smooth the exchange rate path only as long as the reserve target is not at
risk.
Strengthening Public Sector Management and Fiscal Performance
3.    Improve Revenue Performance. Further fiscal consolidation hinges on the Government's capacity
to increase revenues while improving the efficiency of public spending through better prioritization of
expenditures and increased cost-recovery in public utilities. The Government intends to increase tax
revenues to 15.3 percent of GDP in 1999, mainly through improved tax and customs administration and
through efforts to clear up tax arrears. The Government prepared a comprehensive list of remaining tax
exemptions and approved a timetable to streamline these during 1998-99. In addition, the High Level
Committee that has been created to deal with large tax debtors will take decisions on at least the 50
largest debtors during 1999 and commence collection of receivables. The objective will be that overall
stock of tax arrears of these 50 enterprises will decline by 20% in real terms by the end of 1999 compared
to end-1998. The Government does not plan major changes in tax legislation during 1999 and will
maintain the existing stable and liberal tax environment.
4.    Improve Expenditure Management. To improve the efficiency of public spending, the
Government will, during 1999, develop a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF), strengthen the
operation of the Treasury system, and review existing extrabudgetary funds with the aim of reducing
them to a minimum. Concerning the proposed MTEF, the Government has set tup a Working Group, led
by the Minister of Finance and Economy (MOFE), and comprising representatives from all major
' This Letter of Development Policy was signed by the Prime Minister of Armenia and sent to the World Bank on
November 21, 1998.



Annex 2 Page 2 of IO
spending ministries, to develop a proposal for strengthening budget planning, evaluation and management
processes. By mid-1999, the Government will confirm institutional responsibilities for preparation of the
MTEF; adopt a Decree which will instruct government agencies to contribute to the preparation of the
MTEF for 2000-02, and approve a timetable for its implementation along with procedures for preparation,
review and approval. The preparation and adoption of the first MTEF (for 2000-02) will be completed by
end- 1999.
5.     Decentralization and Intergovernmental Fiscal Reform. The Government has initiated reforms to
support fiscal decentralization and to strengthen the administrative capacities of local govemments. As a
first step, a Draft Law on Local Budget Equalization has been submitted to the National Assembly.
During 1999, the Government will develop a broad strategy for inter-government fiscal reform, including
reforms in tax and expenditure assignments. The Government is planning to assign increased
responsibilities to local governments for the administration of social protection, health care and education
programs.
6.    In 1998, the law on "On Property Tax Law" became effective and the draft Land Tax Law has
been submitted to Parliament and is expected to be adopted by April 1, 1999. These laws provide for
expansion in tax base of local governments. During the first half of 1999, the Government will set up a
regulatory framework for land tax administration by local governments, and the necessary
implementation arrangements for efficient collection of the tax will be made.
7.     Accounting and Auditing. One of the key elements of the Government's strategy to promote
accountability and transparency in the public and private sectors is to accelerate the process of adopting
internationally-accepted accounting standards. To that effect, the Government recently took a decision for
the introduction in 1999-2000 of the core lAS-consistent accounting standards and conversion of the
enterprise sector to lAS-consistent accounting. The decision instructs the Ministry of Finance and
Economy to: (i) approve, register and publish about 15 lAS-consistent standards in 1998 and 10 standards
in 1999; (ii) pilot the new standards in selected state enterprises in the irrigation, drinking water, and
airline sectors; in at least 10 enterprises in the power sector; and in at least 50 private enterprises; (iii)
develop and approve in 1999 a new Chart of Accounts. As a result, the selected SOEs in irrigation,
drinking water, power sector and the national airline will have completed the switch to the new standards
by the end of 1999. Also by the end of 1998, the Government is committed to develop and approve a
new Chart of Accounts for the (non-banking) enterprise sector. The Government has launched a
comprehensive training program to facilitate the implementation of the new accounting standards.
8.     To complement the changes in accounting standards and practices, the Government will conduct
a review of the existing auditing requirements and identify areas that need strengthening. During the first
half of 1999, the Government will approve a program to streamline and strengthen audit functions within
the public sector (including government agencies, public sector enterprises and private entities that
receive public financing). Measures identified in the program will be implemented rapidly, mostly during
the second half of 1999.
9.    Civil Service Reform. A professional civil service is critical to strengthen the efficiency of public
sector management. In the coming years, the Government is planning to introduce substantial changes in
the structure and size of the state administration. To launch this process, the Government has asked the
World Bank for assistance in conducting an institutional and functional review of the role of the state in
Armenia within the context of a market economy. During the first half of 1999, the Government will
adopt a medium term civil service reform strategy and publicly announce measures to implement this
strategy. These measures will have clearly defined quantitative targets, a schedule of implementation,
and assignment of institutional responsibilities.



Annex 2 Page 3 of 10
10.    As a part of the strategy, the Government will: (i)finalize a draft Law on Civil Service; (ii)
establish appropriate institutional arrangements for implementation of the reform strategy; (iii) identify
specific steps to facilitate implementation, such as organizing a workshop for senior policymakers to
explore retrenchment options; (iv) review the existing remuneration system, and (v) prepare a training
program for civil servants. To assess user satisfaction with the quality of public services the Government
intends to finance a user surve) and disseminate widely the findings. Using the findings of the
institutional review and of the survey, the Government will decide, during the second half of 1999, on a
program of reforms of public institutions.
II.    During 1999, the Government will present to Parliament a new Civil Service Law and push for its
adoption. Upon approval of the Law, the Government will adopt and promulgate related detailed
implementation regulations.
Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
12.    The Government aims to deepen the energy sector reforms already underway by building on the
interrelated achievements of more reliable supply, improved payment discipline., completion of the
unbundling of Armenergo into separate power generation, transmission and distribution enterprises, and
privatization to strategic investors of power distribution companies. Reforms will also focus on
strengthening the regulatory framework introduced in 1997, beginning financial rehabilitation of sector
enterprises, and initiating the privatization of some of them.
13.    Regulatory Framework and Tariff Policy. The Energy Law separates policy-making, commercial
and regulatory functions in the energy sector, creates separate generation, transmission and national
dispatch, distribution enterprises in the power sector, allows private ownership, establishes an
independent Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC), and mandates that all energy sector enterprises be
licensed under the new regulatory framework within a given transition period. Efforts to strengthen the
regulatory framework in 1999 will focus on the introduction of international accounting standards and
independent auditing of financial statements, on the completion oF the licensing of all sector enterprises,
and on the implementation of the ERC's work program related to issuance of rules for power market
participants and to the market structure for the gas sector.
14.    With the objective of reaching full cost recovery levels by July 1999, as required under the
Energy Law, the Energy Regulatory Commission has announced a 12.5% adjustment in the average
electricity tariff, effective January 1, 1999, and a timetable for bi-annual tariff reviews. The tariff reviews
will allow for the identification of further cost-reduction measures and/or tariff adjustments to ensure
financial sustainability of the sector.
15.    Financial Strengthening. A Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) for the power sector was
adopted by the Government in December 1997. This Plan was revised in July 1998 and adopted by the
Government as Decree No. 555. In November 1998, in accordance with the FRP, the Ministry of
Finance and Economy and the Ministry of Energy jointly adopted resolutions to:: (i) specify mechanisms
to mitigate arrears build-up from chronic defaulters, including cut-off policy and budget allocations; and
(ii) define a restructuring schedule for the power, gas and heat sector's domestic debt (and payables)
accumulated as of November 1, 1998. The Government also required electricity generation, transmission,
dispatch, and distribution enterprises to use at least 10 international accounting standards by January 1,
1999, and require them to submit their accounts to the ERC and relevant ministries on a quarterly basis.
16.    The Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Energy and the ERC will jointly complete
a review of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan with the understanding that measures required for a timely
implementation of the Plan will be taken including: (i) tariff adjustment, collection of arrears, and other



Annex 2 Page 4 of 10
measures defined in Decree 555; and (ii) implementation of the Debt Restructuring Plan (in accordance
with restructuring arrangements, to be concluded by 3/31/99, for the consolidated energy sector payables
to domestic creditors). The Government and the ERC will also appoint internationally-qualified auditors
to audit the 1998 and 1999 financial statements of Armenergo (transmission and dispatch), Yerevan
Distribution Company, and at least one more electricity distribution company. By the end of 1999, the
power sector enterprises will have revalued their assets in accordance with Government policy to link
revaluation either to asset value determined by competitive privatization, or based on a 3-year investment
program and debt-service requirements for state-owned enterprises
17.    As part of its efforts to ensure satisfactory implementation of the FRP, the Government has
allocated in the 1999 budget sufficient financing for energy consumers in the public sector and will take
'he necessary steps to: (i) increase overall collections (average for 1999) to at least 87% of billings; (ii)
maintain billings at least at 84% of supply; (iii) increase collections from commercial customers (i.e.
excluding households, budget organizations, and drinking water and irrigation) to average at least 94% of
billings for 1999; and (iv) avoid arrears to energy suppliers arising from budget organizations and from
public sector consumers within the amounts allocated in the 1999 budget. To monitor payment discipline,
the Government will put in place in early 1999 a quarterly reporting system on public sector consumption
limits, actual consumption, actual payments and outstanding payables.
18.    Energy Sector Privatization. The Government adopted in December 1997 a broad privatization
strategy which defined the companies and assets to be privatized, as well as the sale methodology, and
incorporated an important role for strategic investor privatization by international tenders in oroer to
maximize investment prospects, as well as the transfer of technology and expertise. By December 15,
1998, the Government will contract international financial advisors to represent the Government's
interest in implementing the privatization strategy. Privatization of the energy sector enterprises will
begin in 1999, and is expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2000.
19.   In 1998, the Government adopted a Privatization Action Plan for electricity distribution
companies to be implemented in 1999. The plan provides that, at a minimum, the Yerevan Distribution
Company will be offered for privatization before end June 1999, with a majority of shares offered to
strategic investors. The offering memorandum for the Yerevan Distribution Company will be made
available to potential strategic investors at that time and bid evaluation completed and negotiations started
before the end of 1999. Other distribution companies would be offered for privatization in the second
half of 1999.
20.    District Heating. With the objective of reducing subsidies and improving the heat supply
situation in Armenia, the Prime Minister approved in November 1998 a decree requiring energy
authorities to prepare, by June 30, 1999, a heat supply strategy for the country. Adoption of this strategy
and introduction of cost cutting measures for the 1999-2000 heating season, including new district heat
tariffs, institutional arrangements, and mechanisms to improve collections will be approved during the
first half of 1999.
Irrigation and Drinking Water
21.    Irrigation. Armenia's irrigation system, designed to meet the needs of large farms with little
concern for the cost of providing water, does not meet today's requirements of smaller land holdings and
higher energy prices. Tariffs do not reflect costs - in particular, the large differentials between the costs
of supplying gravity-fed regions and those that require the pumping of water. As a result, the financial
situation of the Operation and Maintenance Enterprise for Irrigation Water (OME) is precarious. This, in
turn, has led to severe asset depletion and declining service quality. The Government has therefore
initiated fundamental reforms in the sector. A comprehensive restructuring program - comprising



Annex 2 Page S of 10
measures to ensure the financial sustainability of the sector, institutional reforms, and rehabilitation of the
network - is being implemented.
22.    The Government is committed to making the Operation and Maintenance Enterprise for irrigation
water (OME) a financially viable enterprise capable of allocating sufficient resources for the maintenance
of the irrigation system. To this effect, the Government adopted in November 1998, a Decree on a
financial rehabilitation program for the irrigation sector (OME and its affiliates) for the period 1999-2005,
including water tariffs adjustments and cost recovery targets, measures to improve tariff collection,
delegation of retail price setting to user associations, preparation of a debt stock resolution strategy and
measures to reduce electricity consumption. The GOA will ensure timely implementation of the
financial rehabilitation plan as mandated in the Government Decree. OME will collect by June 30, 1999,
as a pre-payment by water users, 10% of the contracted water payments for the 1999 irrigation season.
In-kind payments will be abolished as a form of payment. OME aind the Government will take steps to
achieve 65 % cash collections of user payments for irrigation water for the 1999 irrigation season as a
whole, and will monitor these collections on a monthly basis.
23.    To accelerate financial rehabilitation of the sector, by March 31, 1999, the Government will
announce a differentiated tariff for high cost and low cost zones for the 1999 irrigation season with the
aim of ensuring cost recovery level of at least 36% for wholesale cariffs. Following a review of the
implementation of the financial rehabilitation plan during 1999, the Government will announce before
end-1999, measures, including tariff adjustment for the 2000 season, which will bring cost recovery rate
to at least 48% for wholesale operations.
24.   In addition to these measures aimed at securing the financial sustainability of the sector, the
Government will accelerate regulatory and management reform ofthe sector by presenting to Parliament
draft Laws on Water and Water Use as well as on Concessions in the Water Sector, the Government will
complete its study on the organization and management of OME and implement its recommendations.
The Government is also committed to study alternative mechanisms of subsidy provision in the irrigation
sector and will take a decision before end- 1999 on their implementation.
25.    Drinking Water. Availability of drinking water has deteriorated sharply over the last ten years, as
evidence by the poor condition of collection and distribution networks, the unreliable supply at the
household level, and the deteriorating quality of drinking water. In 1998 the Government designed a
reform program for the sector. The two core objectives of the program are: (i) to improve service
provision through institutional reform, commercial operation of the networks, and investments to reduce
losses; and (ii) to improve the financial viability of the sector thrcugh appropriate pricing and payment
policies.
26.   In December 1998, the Government will approve a financial plan for the drinking water sector
based on a comprehensive cash flow of its operations. The plan provides a detailed analysis of the
expected operating deficit during 1999 based on realistic costs and collections estimates and incorporates
the full amount of sector deficit in 1999 budget.
27.    When adopted, these laws would set up a framework for private participation in the water sector.
Accelerating the Development of the P'rivate Sector
28.    Restructuring of the Banking Sector. Over the last three years, the Government and the Central
Bank of Armenia (CBA) have made considerable progress in laying the legal and institutional framework
for a sounder banking sector. In particular, the authorities achieved the promulgation of modern new laws
on the Central Bank, on Banks and Banking Activity and on the EBankruptcy of Banks, as well as a greatly



Annex 2 Page 6 of 10
strengthened Law on Commercial Bankruptcy. The recently approved Civil Code provides further
strengthening of the legal framework for banking, including for collateral-based and mortgage lending.
The introduction and enforcement of a new loan-loss provisioning regime in commercial banks reinforced
these efforts. This development was supported by gradual increases in the minimum total capital in
banks. Banking supervision was further strengthened through on-site examinations in all banks, and by
the gradual convergence of prudential standards to Basle recommendations, especially as regards capital
adequacy. In the first half of 1999, the CBA will further raise the general capital adequacy ratio to a level
of 12 percent and minimum core capital adequacy ratio to a level of 8 percent.
29.    Restructuring of banks was carried out in parallel to the strengthening of the institutional and
regulatory framework. An initial restructuring program for the Savings Bank was implemented, and on-
site examinations and audit work completed in 1996-97. Furthermore, in November 1998, the Prime
Minister will approve an Action Plan for the Savings Bank, including the requirement of an independent
audit of its 1998 accounts. In 1997 and 1998, the task of restructuring the large forner state banks, which
for some years had been seriously de-capitalized and managerially weak, was undertaken. All three of
these banks, namely Ardshinbank, Arrnagrobank and Armeconombank, were required to find new capital
injections and to take other actions, such as restraints on dividends, in order to bring capital levels into
compliance with prudential requirements. As of end-1998, all three banks comply with prudential
requirements. The Government has decided to sell its remaining shares in Ardshinbank during the 1998-
1999.
30.    Privatization and Enterprise Restructuring. The Government has continued to make progress on
privatization. As of November 15, 1998, the Government had privatized (defined as signed sales
agreements) over 6500 small enterprises (almost all small enterprises in the Privatization Program) and
about 1500 medium and large enterprises had been offered for sale. The Government plans to use
privatization proceeds from 1999 for financing of the Government public investment program (within the
MTEF) and for improvement in the external debt servicing profile. In accordance with the current
privatization program, privatization of 200 large and medium enterprises will be completed each year in
1999 and 2000. Most privatizations will take place through public auctions on a cash basis. The
Government also intends to sell some enterprises to strategic investors, such as some of the energy sector
companies, transport companies and possibly others.
31.    The Government is aware that not all enterprises will-be successfully privatized and that it is
essential to ensure quick and orderly exit procedures for those that fail to be sold. The Privatization Law
specifies that if an enterprise fails to sell after three attempts at privatization, it must be liquidated. The
GOA has initiated an assessment of enterprises that failed to be privatized with a focus to enhance
privatization methods and procedures. Recommendations of the assessment will be incorporated in the
government actions for implementation of the Privatization Program. Privatization of all bakeries and
mills that are included in the Privatization Program was completed by end-1998. For those sector
enterprises which failed to be privatized, the Ministry of Privatization has submitted a draft Government
Decree on their liquidation.
32.    The Prime Minister approved in November 1998, a Decree ordering the Ministry of Privatization
to initiate in 1999 the liquidation of all enterprises that will have failed in three attempts at privatization.
The Decree also mandates that by end- 1999 the Ministry of Privatization complete the privatization or
initiate liquidation proceeding for those enterprises that have been offered for sale at least once as of
November 30, 1998. The Ministry of Privatization will also finalize the regulations needed for the
completion of the enterprise liquidation process and sale of related assets.
33.    The GOA published in November 1998, the official notification of the liquidation of the 15
enterprises (including all mills and bakeries that failed to be sold for the third time in 1998) covered in



Annex 2 Page 7 of I0
Government Decrees approved during 1998. It is expected that the liquidation of at least 5 enterprises
will be completed in the first half of 1999 and another 15 during the second half of 1999.
34.    Property Rights. The Government recognizes the importance of laying a solid foundation for
property rights on which the smooth functioning of a market economy is based. Thus, in December 1995,
Parliament passed a Law On Real Property which carefully protecls the rights of property owners. Basic
registration of initial property rights in real estate has been proceeding through the issuance of deeds. To
make these property rights in real estate more easily tradable, the Government unified in 1998 the registry
of rights to land and other real estate and the transactions and encumbrances which pertain to this real-
estate were established. The Law on Title Registration will be adopted by Parliarnent in December, 1998.
This law and the related regulations define the procedures and standards which will govern the
registration system, guarantee ease of access to the database of information on property rights embodied
in the registry, and specify the responsibility of the state to maintain the accuracy of the information in the
registry.
35.    The Government is committed to complete the process of clarifying property rights and will
submit draft Laws on (i) Agricultural Land Use and (ii) Alienation (Sale) of Publicly Owned Land to
Parliament during the first half of 1999.
36.    Capital Markets Development. Thus far, the Government has focused on establishing the main
legal and regulatory pillars for capital market development. Much work remains to be done in finalizing
the overall legal and policy framework; in developing and strengthening the supporting institutions
needed for the growth of capital markets; and in creating the environment to attract market activities.
37.    To ensure a coordinated approach to the development of both capital markets legislation and
institutions, the Government is preparing a comprehensive strategy for capital markets development. This
strategy focuses on specific actions and resources required to establish and make operational: a Capital
Markets Regulatory Authority; stock exchange trading, clearing and settlement; depositary institutions;
institutional investors such as investment funds, insurance companies and others; brokerages; and other
important market needs and participants. The Government will approve the strategy for capital market
development, including a timetable for specific actions in 1999-2000 by end-June 1999.
38.    In order to provide the adequate legal basis for the development of capital market activities, a
draft Law on the Securities Market which provides for the establishment of a Securities and Exchange
Commission was submitted to Parliament in December 1998. It is expected that the Securities and
Exchange Commission will be established in the first half of 1999.
39.    The Government will adopt in December 1998, a strategy on the organization of a Central
Depository for securities and on the establishment of one or more independent bodies for the registration
of securities. The strategy envisages that the Central Depository for securities will be established during
the first half of 1999.
Strengthening Social Assistance and Social Insurance
40.    Targeting of Social Assistance. The Government of Armenia is committed to the principle of
social equity in the distribution of social benefits, meaning that only the needy should receive cash and in-
kind benefits financed by the state budget. The Government is well aware, however, of the formidable
difficulties it faces in accurately targeting social benefits given the unusual and changing nature of
poverty in Armenia. The Government has abandoned the categorical approach to determine eligibility for
social protection measures. Instead, the Government is introducing a single proxy means-tested benefit to
protect vulnerable groups in society which will consolidate and restructure the existing system of social



Annex 2 Page 8 of IO
transfers. To that effect, in November 1998, the Government approved a Decree on the introduction of a
single vulnerability benefit, including a greater role for local governments in the identification and
registration of the beneficiaries.
41.    To meet the challenge of efficient administration of the single vulnerability benefit and improved
targeting, the Government is preparing a draft Law on State Benefits and related regulations. In addition,
weights in the formula for proxy means test will be refined, a comprehensive Operational Manual for the
social assistance workers managing the family benefit will be prepared, public information campaign on
the new benefit program will be carried out, and the system of monitoring and evaluation will be
improved through periodic data collection on beneficiaries. The Government will formally review the
program during the third quarter of 1999 and prepare a first evaluation report.
42.    The introduction of the single vulnerability benefit will also coincide with the abolition of the
lifeline tariff for electricity and an increase in the overall budget for social assistance. The draft 1999
budget envisages an allocation of 21.7 billion drams for the new benefit, compared with 14.9 billion in the
approved 1998 budget.
43.    Social Insurance. The Pension Law adopted in December 1995 laid the foundation for
fundamental reform of the public pension system. The Government's intention, when the law was passed,
was to develop in parallel a regulatory framework for private pensions, which would eventually
supplement the state provision of a basic pension. However, the Government recognizes that the work on
private pensions must be done in conjunction with the development (and as part) of a broader vision for
the overall pension system. As a step towards implementing a new pension system, the Government is
preparing a strategy for pension reform. The strategy will include an assessment of the financial
sustainability of the current public system, and any short term measures required to contain Pension and
Employment Fund (PEF) expenditures to the level of expected revenues. As part of this strategy, the
Government will prepare options for the development of the private pensions, along with the definition of
the regulatory framework that will govern the funds and of the public institutions that will supervise them.
In addition, the strategy will include an assessment of the fiscal impact of the various options.
44.    In the short term, the Government will give high priority to implementing measures aimed at
improving the sustainability of the existing pension system. The following guiding principles have been
agreed: tightening of eligibility criteria as specified in the Pension Reform Strategy; strengthening
enforcement mechanisms for collection of pension contributions; rationalization of payment mechanisms
for pensions; transferring social pensions from the list of social insurance benefits to liabilities of the
general budget starting from the 2000 budget. In addition, the Government is also preparing a plan for the
introduction of individual social security/taxpayer identification numbers. The plan, which aims to
introduce a unique individual identification number to be used for all dealings with social security and tax
authorities, will be finalized during 1999.
Reforming Provision and Financing of Health and Education Services
45.    Education. The Government recognizes that preserving Armenia's highly educated labor force is
key to the country's future economic growth. To this end, the Government intends to make reform of the
education sector a priority in its overall economic reform program. As a first step towards the
consolidation and rationalization of schools, the Ministry of Education established a management
information system integrating a comprehensive database on school facilities and staff. In parallel, the
Government initiated a process of increasing the proportion of financing for general education within the
education budget. A textbook strategy to improve production and distribution of textbooks and reduce
costs to parents was adopted. In 1998 the government also developed a draft law on education and
submitted it to Parliament.



Annex 2 Page 9 of IO
46.    The Government is aware that revising the financing mechanism for education is crucial to
improving incentives and incr easing the overall quality and efficiency of the system. To this effect, in
1997 the Ministry of Education adopted an education sector management and finance strategy which laid
the foundation for the comprehensive reforms to be undertaken during 1998-99. The strategy identified
the priority areas for public and private financing in the education sector; established the basis for
increasing the autonomy of schools; proposed new financing mechanisms for different levels of
education, including mechanisms to introduce per capita financing for general education; described the
revision of norms and standards to improve cost effectiveness of the system; and explained the approach
to be taken in school consolidation and reduction of staff in the education sector. Implementation of this
strategy remains a high priority of the Government for 1999.
47.    The draft 1999 budget includes an increased allocation to education by 18%. E,ducation spending
in the budget draft amounts to 11% of current expenditures. Within that allocation, the share of the
education budget envisaged for general (i.e. school) education has been increased. To improve education
expenditures allocation, the Government is adopting a quarterly monitoring system to report on the level
and composition of actual budget expenditures, both at the central and local budgets levels. The first
monitoring report, covering the first quarter of 1999 will be issued by end-May 1999. The Government
will take the necessary measures to avoid accumulation of budgetary anrears at the encl of each reporting
period in funding general education.
48.   In November 1998, the Ministry of Education and Science finalized revised plans to pilot
decentralization, new school status and funding mechanism during the school years 1999 and 2000. The
Government will review these plans and take a decision on their implementation by end March 1999.
These plans cover 150 schools and introduce means and incentives for school rationalization, including:
definition of the proposed pilot educational zones; detailed description of the proposed process for
introduction of per capita funding and new school status in these zones, estimated costs and proposed
timeframe for implementation of pilots, and definition of the principles on which per pupil financing
formula will be based.
49.   Introduction of the new status and management structures in pilot schools will begin as soon as
the necessary law and regulations are effective and the new funding mechanism will start with the 1999
school year. Before end- 1999, the Ministry of Education and Science vvill report to the Government on
the first stage of pilot implementation, the lessons learned, plans for extension to other zones for school-
year 2000-2001, and proposed modifications in the process based on initial experience. In addition, the
Government will issue during 1999 the supporting regulations confirming a revised clharter for schools,
defining the regulatory framework for school management, and detailing respective roles and
responsibilities. The Government will also approve a national system for pupil assessment and
monitoring of standards in general education.
50.    The Ministry of Education and Science is preparing a strategy :for reform of higher and post-
secondary technical education and will establish a system for licensing and accreditation of public and
private institutions. The reform strategy will improve linkages with secondary education, reassessment of
state order criteria, adjustment of the system to new qualification needs in the public as well as private
sectors, and financing of the system to account for equity as well as efficiency and quality considerations.
The Government will approve the strategy before the end of 1999.
51.    Health. The Govemment is aware that access to high-quality health care is essential to the well-
being of Armenia's population. In consequence, the Government is committed to improving access to and
quality of health care within the framework of the overall economic reform program.



Annex 2 Page IO of 10
52.   The Government has taken significant steps towards this goal. As part of its efforts to reform
public financing of health care, the Government adopted a health financing strategy which stipulated the
creation of a State Health Agency (SHA) charged with purchasing health care services from both public
and private providers. Significant progress was made during 1998 in establishing SHA and in developing
its operating procedures. The Government will adopt a provider payment mechanism for the SHA which
will put a limit of health expenditures and set strict criteria for eligibility of providers.
53.    Since 1997, the budget for health care follows a program budgeting approach based on a
minimum basic package of services (BBP) entirely financed by the state. The BBP has been revised for
1999 by changing the structure of the package to ensure its consistency with available funding and better
reflect actual costs of service provision. The content of the BBP has been improved to address the main
burden of disease, as well as health conditions which have a strong social impact. The BBP also includes
full coverage of basic immunization programs (financed by the budget along with humanitarian
assistance), and factors in an increased relative budget allocation for primary health care services.
54.   The Govemment recognizes that health care should remain a priority for public spending. Despite
the tightness of the fiscal program, the Government is committed to not incurring any arrears on health
sector spending in the implementation of the 1999 budget (to be monitored on a continued basis). In line
with the Government's stated goal of making health a priority for public snending, the I 999 state budget
that has been submitted to Parliament proposes to maintain the share of total expenditures allocated to
health at the level of 11.0% of current expenditures.
55.   In order to improve the effectiveness of the hospital sector., the Government is reviewing options
for hospital restructuring that will allow for closing, merging and/or reprofiling of public hospitals;
privatization of hospitals; and re-licensing with the aim of ensuring performance and quality standards.
By end-June 1999, the Government will approve and make a public announcement on its hospital
rationalization plan. As a part of the plan, the GOA will spell out a specific strategy for gradual reduction
of excessive capacity in the sector, including infrastructure and personnel, to be implemented over the
next 3-5 years.
56.    The Government recognizes that prevention is an important aspect of improving the health status
of the Armenian population. In this context, the Government intends to prioritize its public health
policies. The Ministry of Health is developing a national anti-smoking policy. As a step to discourage
smoking and to increase tax revenues, the Government will decide to increase, effective January 1, 1999,
the excise tax on tobacco and tobacco products.



Annex 3 Page I of 7
ARMENIA: THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core actionsfor 1998 and Proposed Tranche Conditions are in bold. SAC III is a three tranche operation with 2nd and 3rd tranches expected to be disbursed at six
months intervals after Board presentation.
Objectives                          Current Status                                                  Measures in the LDP
A. CONSOLIDATING MACROECONOMIC STABILITY
Maintain         ESAF Program is effective.                                 Satisfactory macroeconomicframework and performance. (2" and 3'dfranche
sustainable                                                                 condition)
macroeconomic
framework
B. STRENGTHENING PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVING FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE
B I. Strengthen fiscal management and revenue performance
Improve revenue  The GOA prepared a comprehensive list of remaining tax     1. The volume of tax exemptions to be reduced in 1999 according to the approved
performance      exemptions and approved a timetable to streamline them.    timetable.
2. The High Level Committee for large tax debtors will make decisions on the cases
of at least 50 largest debtors in 1999 and commence collections of receivables. The
overall stock of tax arrears of these 50 enterprises will decline by 20% in real terms
by the end of 1999.
Strengthen       Draft Law on Land Tax was submitted to Parliament to become    The GOA will set up a regulatory framework for land tax administration by local
administration of  effective by 04/01/99.                                   governments. The GOA will make necessary arrangements for efficient collection of
local taxes                                                                the tax to be provided through cooperation of local governments and local branches
of the State Tax Service.
Improve          I. The GOA set up a Working group, led by the Minister of  1. The GOA will introduce a strengthened processfor budget planning, evaluation,
budgetary        Finance and Economy (MOFE), to develop a proposal for      and management, in tile context of a medium-term expenditureframework
management       strengthening GOA's budget planning, evaluation and        (MTEF). Spec4rically, thie GOA will confirm institutional responsibilitiesfor
management nrocesses in the context of a medium term      preparation of the MTEF and issue a Decree whichi will (i) instruct government
expenditure framework (MTEF).                             agencies to contribute to the preparation of the MTEFfor 2000-02; (ii) approve a
timetable, procedurefor preparation, deliberations and approval of the MTEF. (2""
tranche condition)
2. Thefirst MTEF (for 2000-02) will be developed in compliance with the
procedure above and it will be consistent witht a longer term macroeconomic
framework. (31dtranche condition)
The GOA issued a Decree to address the issue of remaining
sectoral extrabudgetary funds and either eliminate these funds or
consolidate them within the state budget.
The GOA approved an Action Plan to strengthen operations of the The GOA will make progress with implementation of the Action Plan
Treasury.



Annex 3 Page 2 of 7
Accelerate inter-   Draft Law on Local Budget Equalization was submitted to the  The GOA will develop a broad strategy for the inter-goverment fiscal reform,
government       National Assembly.                                         including reforms in tax and expenditure assignments.
fiscal reform
B2. Strengthen public sector management
Strengthen       The GOA approved a decree to introduce in 1999-2000 of the  1. The CBA will prepare an accounting manual for the implementation of IAS by
accounting and    core IAS-consistent accounting standards and conversion of thle   commercial banks, setting out not only the Chart of Accounts, but also the full details
financial        enterprise sector to IAS-consistent accounting. Thre regulations   for accounting and auditing procedures as well as for lAS-consistent reporting to the
information      would instruct the MoFE: (i) to approve, register and publish  CBA.
system           about 15 IAS-consistent standards in 1998 and 10 standards in
1999; (ii) to select enterprises in the irrigation, drinking water    2. Selected SOEs in irrigation, drinking water, power sector and the airline will
sectors, the airline, about 10 enterprises in the power sector and   complete switch to the IAS. (3' tranche condition)
not less than 50 private enterprisesfor piloting new standards in  3. The GOA will develop and approve a new Chart of Accounts for the (non-
1999; (iii) to develop and approve in 1999 a new Chart of  banking) enterprise sector; approve new training programs for accountants; and
Accounts.                                                  submit to Parliament amendments to the Accounting Law.
Strengthen audit  The GOA conducted a review of the existing audit arrangements    Authorities will approve a Program to streamline and strengthen audit functions
functions        and identify the areas that need strengthening.             within the public sector (including government agencies, public enterprises and
private entities that receive public financing). Before the end of 1999, the GOA will
make changes in the government structure envisioned in the Program and submit
appropriate amendments to the existing laws.
Public Sector    I. The GOA requested the World Bank to conduct an institutional  I. The GOA, will carry out a comprehensive survey to assess user satisfaction with
Management and  and functional review of the role of the state in a market economy. the quality of public services and disseminate the survey findings.
Civil Service    2. The GOA agreed on a medium-term civil service reform
reform           strategy.                                                   2. On the basis of the review and survey, the GOA will develop and make public a
3. As a part of the strategy, the GOA:                     program of institutional reforms.
a) finalized and submitted to the National Assembly a Law on
Civil Service;                                             3. The GOA will announce a civil service reform strategy, which will have clearly
b) established appropriate institutional arrangements for  defined quantitative targets, a schedule of implementation, and assignment of
implementing the civil service reform strategy;            institutional responsibilities. The GOA will approve and promulgate implementing
c) agreed with IDA on specific steps on reform implementation,    regulations for the Civil Service Law. The GOA will ensure that all actions
including (i) the dates and outline of a workshop for senior  undertaken will be consistent with the approved 1999 budget and the multi-year
policymakers to explore retrenchment options; (ii) terms of  expenditure framework.
reference for a review of the existing remuneration regime for
civil servants, and (iii) terms of reference for preparation of a  4. The new Civil Service Law will be adopted by the National Assembly.
medium-term training policy for civil servants.
B3. Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
Implementation    1. The GOA updated the Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) as  1. The GOA and the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) will have completed a
of the Financial   envisaged under Government Decree No. 555 by: (i) specifying    review with IDA of the implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan and
Rehabilitation   mechanisms to mitigate arrears build-up from chronic        have: (i) agreed on implementation of measures such as tariff adjustment,
Program and      defaulters, including cut-off policy and budget allocations; (ii)   collection of arrears, and other measures defined in Decree 555; (ii) implemented
Tariff Reform    defining a restructuring schedulefor the power, gas and heat    the Debt Restructuring Plan (in accordance with restructuring arrangements)for



Annex 3 Page 3 of 7
sector's domestic debt (andpayables) accumulated as of    dlie consolidated energy sector payables to domestic creditors. (2" and 3nl tranche
November 1, 1998; and (iii) issuing the necessary regulation  condition)
requiring electricity generation, transmission, dispatch, and
distribution enterprises to begin implementation of at least 10  2. The power sector enterprises would have revalued their assets in accordance with
international accounting standards by January 1, 1999, and  Government policy to link revaluation to asset value determined by competitive
requiring them to submit their accounts to the Energy     privatization, or based on a 3-year in vestment program and debt-service
Regulatory Commission (ERQ and the Government on a        requirementsfor state-owned enterprises. (3J tranche condition)
quarterly basis.
2. With the objective of reachingfull cost recovery levels by July
1999, as required under the Energy Law, the Energy Regulatory
Commission have announced: (i) a minimum 12.5% adjustment
in average electricity tariff and tle revised tariff structure to be
effective on 1/1/99; and (ii) a timetablefor semi-annual tariff
reviews.
Payment          1. The GOA: (i) has ensured that overall collections (averagefor  1. To demonstrate satisfactory implementation of tie FRP, the GOA will ensure
discipline      three consecutive months) reached 85% of billings; and (ii)  that: (i) overall collections (averagefor 1999) reaclh at least 87% of billings; (ii) at
cleared all budgetary arrears to the energy sectorfor energy  least 84% of supply is billed; (iii) collectionsfrom commercial customers (iLe.
supplied in 1998 to budget organizations, drinking water   excluding houselholds, budget organizations, and drinking water and irrigation)
companies, and irrigation.                                 average at least 94% of billingfor 1999. (2" and 3'tranche condition)
2. The GOA has ensured that the 1999 budget will provide  2. The GOA will clear all arrears to energy suppliers accumulated during 1999
sufficient financing for energy consumers in the public sector.    from budget organizations andfrom public sector consumers within the amount
allocated in the budget. (2"d and 3n' tranche condition)
3. To monitor payment discipline in the sector, the GOA will put in place a quarterly
reporting system on public sector consumption limits, actual consumption, actual
payments and outstanding payables.
Regulation       1. The GOA approved a Decree requiring all power sector    1. The ERC would have issued licenses to the 4 consolidated electricity distribution
reform           enterprises to submit, starting from 7/1/99, financial reports in  companies before the mid-1999. The process of licensing of remaining sector
-  -, - ~~  ~ - I A                         ..3i.k,...iI -,nmI,t d                      1
acIuruailve wi    th th e  riflfi puposes, and rcquin-..b ...... .. '7"d  n--
enterprises to undergo in 1999 financial audit by internationally    2. Internationally-qualified auditors would have been appointed to audit 1998 and
qualified auditors.                                        1999financial statements of Armenergo (transmission and dispatch), Yerevan
Distribution Company, and at least one more electricity distribution company. (2d
tranche condition)
3. The GOA will agree on mechanisms of strengthening the financial independence
and the regulatory capacity of the ERC.
4. The ERC will make progress with implementation of its Working Program. In
particular, (i) rules for power market participants will be issued, including rules for
economic dispatch, operations of a "single buyer", and third party access to common
facilities), and (ii) tariff regulations and market structure for the gas sector (licensees
arrangements and methodology for price setting) will be defined.
5. Power sector enterprises will start to report in accordance with the IAS.



Annex 3 Page 4 of 7
6. International auditors would have completed their audit of the 1998financial
statements of Armenergo, Yerevan Distribution, and an additional distribution
company and audit arrangements of 1998financial statements would have been
confirmed (3'd tranche condition).
Privatization of    The Governmentformulated and announced                 1. Thje offering memorandum will have been approved by the GOA and been
power sector     a Privatization Action Planfor electricity distribution companies  available to potential strategic investorsfor the Yerevan Distribution Company (2"'
enterprises     to be implemented in 1999. The plan provides th at at least the    tranche condition). Bid evaluation for the Yerevan Distribution Company would
Yerevan Distribution Company will be offeredfor privatization    have been completed and negotiations started. (3r'tranche condition)
by 6/30/99, with majority of shares offered to strategic investors,  2. The other three distribution companies will be offeredfor privatization with
and other distribution companies would be offeredfor      majority of shares offered to strategic investors, and incorporating lessonsfrom the
privatization in 1999. International privatization consultants  privatization offering of thle Yerevan Distribution Company. (3'dtranche condition)
have been contracted to assist the GOA with the implementation
of the Plan.
Reforming        With the objective of reducing subsidies and improving the heat   The Government will approve its strategyfor heat supply and introduce cost cutting
District Ifeat  supply situation in Armenia, the Government issued a decree  measuresfor the 1999-2000 heating season, including new district heal tariffs,
requiring energy authorities to prepare, by June 30, 1999, a heat  institutional arrangements, and mechanisms to improve collections. (2nJ tranche
supply strategyfor the country.                           condition)
B4. Strengthen Fiscal Discipline in Irrigation and Drinking Water Sectors
Institutional    The Government finalized the new structure of the Ministry of  1. Draft Laws on Water and Water Use as well as on Concessions in the Water Sector
building         Agriculture. The new structure provides for efficient consolidation  will be submitted to the National Assembly.
of research, extension, and training function.            2. A study of the organization and management of OME will be completed.
A GOA Decree will mandate a new organizational and management structurefor
OME, which will aim at improved operational monitoring andfinancial
management (2nd tranche condition)
Financial        The GOA issued a Decree adopting a multi-year (1999 -2005)    1. Thte GOA will ensure timely implementation of thefinancial rehabilitation plan.
rehabilitation and  financial rehabilitation plan for the irrigation sector (OME and   OME wiUl have collected by mid-1999, as a pre-payment by water users, 10% of
tariff reform   its affiliates) to increase irrigation water tariffs and cost  the contracted water paymentsfor the 1999 irrigation season. In-kind payments
recovery, improve tariff collection, delegate retail price setting to   will be abolished as aform of payment. The average wholesale tarifffor the 1999
user associations, work out a debt stock resolution strategy, and   season will be not less than 2.3 dram/m3. (2"'tranche condition)
reduce electricity consumption.                            2. The GOA will announce a differentiated tarifffor the 2000 irrigation season to
be not less than 3.4 dram/m3 on average. (3rdtranche condition)
3. The Government will complete a Study on alternative mechanisms of subsidy
provision in the irrigation sector and will make a decision on its implementation.
Payment          The GOA approved a 1999 financial plan for the drinking water    The GOA will take steps to achieve 65% cash collections of user paymentsfor
discipline      sector based on a comprehensive cash flow of their operations.    irrigation waterfor the 1999 irrigation season as a whole and monitor these
The plan provides estimates for an expected sector deficit based    collections on a monthly basis. (3itranche condition)
on realistic estimates for both costs and collections and
incorporates the full amount of sector deficit in 1999 budget draft.



Annex 3 Page 5 of 7
C. ACCELERATING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
CL. Restructuring the Banking Sector
Ardshinbank                                                                  The GOA will sell all publicly-owned shares in Ardslhinbank based on an
independent audit of the 1998 bank's financial statements. (2"' tranche condition)
Saving Bank      The GOA approved an action plan for Saving Bank             Audit of 1998 financial statements will be completed.
restructuring and ordered an independent audit of its 1998
accounts.
Banking                                                                      The CBA will raise the general capital adequacy ratio to a level of 12 percent and
Regulation                                                                   minimum core capital adequacy ratio to a level of 8 percent effective.
C2. Sustain Privatization and Enterprise Restructuring
Implementation    1. Privatization of all bakeries and mills that are included in the  1. In accordance with the current privatization program, privatization of 200 large
of the           Privatization Program is completed. For those sector enterprises,   and medium enterprises will be completed each year in 1999 and 2000.
Privatization    which fail to be privatized, the Ministry of Privatization submitted  2. Recommendations of the Privatization Assessment will be incorporated in the
Program          a draft Government Decree on their liquidation.             government actions for implementation of the Privatization Program by adopting
2. The GOA initiated an Assessment of enterprises that failed to    changes in relevant regulations.
be privatized with a focus to enhance privatization methods and
procedures.
Reorganization/L  1. Tlhe Prime Minister approved a Decree No. 663 ordering tihe   1. The liquidation of at least 5 enterprises included in tihe GOA Decree No. 663 will
iquidation       Ministry of Privatization to initiate in 1999 thle liquidation of all  be completed. (2" tranclhe condition)
enterprises that havefailed in three attempts at privatization.
The Decree also mandated tile Ministry of Privatization to  2. Th e liquidation of at least 15 additional enterprises included in the GOA Decree
complete in 1999 privatization or initiate liquidation proceeding   No. 663) will be completed. (3d tranche condition)
for those enterprises that have been offeredfor sale at least once
as of November 30, 1998.                                   3. At least 20 additional official notifications of enterprise liquidation will be
published. (2"" tranche condition)
2. Thte GOA advanced the liquidation process of the 15
enterprises (including all mills and bakeries thatfailed to be sold  4. Satisfactory implementation of tle Decree No. 663. (2""and 3'trancile
in 199R) covered in already a.nproved Government Decrees and    condition)
publish ed official notifications of thoeir liquidation.
C3. Clarifying Property Rights
Land ownership   Law on Title Registration and enabling regulations is submitted to  1. The GOA will build capacity for title registration required by the law.
Parliament to become effective in early 1999.              2. Draft Laws on (i) Agricultural Land Use and (ii) Alienation (Sale) of Publicly
Owned Land will be submitted to the National Assembly.
C4. Developing capital markets
Strengthen       The GOA submitted a draft Law on Securities Market that     1. The Securities and Exchange Commission will be established.
regulatory       provides for establishment of the Securities and Exchange   2. The Government will approve a concept for capital market developments to
framework        Commission.                                                 provide a timetable for specific actions in 1999-2000.
Expand market    The GOA adopted a strategy in respect to the organization of a  The Central Depository for securities will be established.
infrastructure   Central Depository for securities and for establishment of one or
more independent bodies for the registration of securities.



Annex 3 Page 6 of 7
D. ENSURING THE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY OF THE REFORM PROCESS
DI. Strengthening Social Assistance and Insurance
Improve           The GOA adopted a Decree to modify lthe existing system of  I. The GOA will submit a Draft Law on State Benefits, which will provide a
targeting of     social benefitsfrom 1/1/99. The Decree will initiate: (i) a switch   comprehensive legal framework for family benefits. The draft will ensure resolutions
social protection   to a proxy means-testing based single vulnerability benefit; (ii) a  of all issues mentioned above and will take into account early experience of operating
wider involvement of local governments in the process of  the family benefit program.
beneficiary registration and identification of recipients; (ii) a  2. The GOA will introduce further steps to strengthen efficiency of social assistance:
system of home visit to reduce errors of inclusion, and is fully    (i) Modify weights in the formula for proxy means test as agreed between the GOA
consistent with 1999 draft budget allocationsfor social    and IDA; (ii) In accordance with the approved Law, amend and expand existing
protection.                                                instructions to provide a comprehensive Operational Manual for the social assistance
workers managing the family benefit; and implement the Manual; (iii) Strengthen the
system of monitoring and evaluation, thorough periodic data collection on
beneficiaries; and (iv) Publish the first evaluation report.
Pension Reform                                                              1. The GOA will prepare a draft Pension Reform Strategy which will focus on (i)
improvement in the sustainability of the PAYG system; (ii) development of a plan for
the introduction of a private pensions; (iii) the feasibility of introducing in the
medium and long termn a second pillar to the Armenia old age insurance system.
2. The GOA will implement specific steps to strengthen sustainability of the existing
pension system based on thefollowing principles: (i) tightening eligibility criteria;
(il) strengthening enforcement mechanisms for collection of pension contributions;
(iii) rationalization of payment mechanismsfor pensions; (iv) transferring social
pensionsfrom the list of social insurance benefits startingfrom the budget of 2000.
In particular, the GOA will start implementation of a plan for introduction of
pension/taxpayer identification numbers.(3' tranche condition)
D2. Reforming the Provision and Financing of Education
Increase a share   The GOA provided that the share of the draft 1999 budget  I .The GOA will adopt a quarterly monitoring system to report on the amount and
of public        allocated to education amounts to 11% of current expenditures,  structure of actual budget expenditures in the sector that would include allocations
spending         and increased a portion of the education budget allocated to  from both central and local budgets. The first report will be issued in the mid-1994
general (Le. school) education, to permit adequatefundingfor
piloting per capitafinancing and associated reforms. 1999  2. The GOA will ensure accumulation of no budgetary arrears at the end of each
budget presentation included new expenditure items to provide    reporting period in funding to general schools.
funding (i) on a lump sum, per pupil basis to about 150 schools
included in the pilot, and (ii) incremental costs related to
administration and implementation of the pilots.
Rationalization   The Ministry of Education and Science submitted revised plans   1. The government will approve the planfor piloting of school rationalization and
of the education   for piloting of decentralization, new school status andfunding    related regulations. Introduction of the new status and management structures in
system           mechanism in school year 1999-2000for 150 schools.         pilot schools will begin as soon as the necessary law and regulations are effective.
Introduction of the newfunding mechanism will startfor the new school year in
September ]999.(2"d tranche condition)



Annex 3 Page 7 of 7
2. By late 1999full implementation of the pilots will be under way, with thefirst
phase of rationalization started in at least 3 educational zones, and new school
status andfunding mechanisns introduced in about 150 schools. (3I tranche
condition)
3. The Ministry of Education and Science will submit to the GOA and IDA a full
report on the first stage of pilot implementation, the lessons learned, plans for
extension to other zones for school-year 2000-2001, and proposed modifications in
the process based on initial experience.
1. The Ministry of Education and Science will prepare a strategy for reform of higher
and post-secondary technical education and will establish a system for licensing and
accreditation of public and private institutions. The reform strategy will improve
linkages with secondary education, reassessment of state order criteria, adjustment of
the system to new qualification needs in the public as well as private sectors, and
financing of the system to account for equity as well as efficiency and quality
considerations. The GOA will approve the strategy before the end of 1999.
2. The GOA will approve a national system for pupil assessment and monitoring of
standards in general education.
D3. Reforming the Provision and Financing of Health Services
Increase a share   The 1999 draft budget law providesfor the share of health  The Government will instruct the SHA and to set up a quarterly monitoring system to
of public        expenditures to amount to 11.0% of current expenditures.  report on the amount and structure of actual budget expenditures in the sector. The
spending                                                                   MoH will be responsible for preparing a similar report for expenditures under its
control. The first reports will be prepared by mid-1999.
Restructuring of   1. The GOA provided further rationalization of the BBP system  I .The GOA will adopt a provider payment mechanism for the SHA which puts a
the health sector  for 1999 budget by changing the structure of the package to  limit of health expenditures.
ensure its consistency with available funding and better reflect
actual costs of service provision.
2. The GOA will approve and make a public announcement on its hospital
2. The Ministry of Health completed the survey of the existing  rationalization. As a part of the plan, the GOA will spell out a specifc strategyfor
health sector infrastructure and current use of the available  the gradual reduction of excessive capacity in the sector, including infrastructure
capacity.                                                 and personnel, to be implemented over next 3-5years.(2" tranche condition)
3. The GOA decided on increase in tobacco excise to discourage   3. The GOA will ensure accumulation of no arrears in the SHA and the MoH that will
tobacco use.                                              derive from (i) implementation of a good payment mechanism; and (ii) receiving
budgeted amount of funding from the MoFE.
Matx/Final.doc



Annex 4
Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.   Time taken to prepare:              5 months
2.   Prepared by:                        Government of Armenia with the
assistance of lBRD/IDA staff
3.   Preparation missions:               July 27-August 8, 1998
September 7-20, 1998
4.   Pre-appraisal mission:              October 26-31, 1998
5.   Negotiations:                       November 19-21, 1998
6.   Planned Board presentation          December 22, 1 998
7.   Planned date of effectiveness:      December 31, 1998
8.   Expected program completion:        June 30, 2000



MOP Schedule D
Gencrated: 11/23/98
Status of Bank Group Operations in Armenia
Operations Portfolio
As of 23-Nov-98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a'
Project ID    Year               Borrower                Purpose
IBRD        IDA       Cancellations    Undisbursed      Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
AM-PE-57560    1999   GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA              TITLE REGISTRATION                       0.00        8.00        0.00               8.45        0.00        0.00
AM-PE-35805    1998   REPUBLIC OFARMENIA                 MUNICIPAL DEVELOP.                       0.00       30.00        0.00              31.07         .71        0.00
AM-PE-35806    1998   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA                AGRIC. REFORM SUPP.                      0.00       14.50        0.00              14.09        2.91        0.00
AM-PE-50140    1998   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA                HEALTH                                   0.00       10.00        0.00               9.75        1.97        0.00
AM-PE-51026    1998   REPUBLIC OFARMENIA                 SATAC II                                 0.00        5.00        0.00               3.83        3.18        0.00
AM-PE-8281      1998   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               EDUCATION                                0.00       15.00        0.00              15.02        1.10        0.00
AM-PE-8279      1997   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               ENTERPRISE DEVELOP.                      0.00       16.75        0.00              11.94        6.11        0.00
AM-PE-35765    1996   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA                HIGHWAY                                  0.00       31.00        0.00              13.59       -2.96        4.99
AM-PE-35768    1996   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA                SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                      0.00       12.00        0.00               3.51         .20        0.00
AM-PE-44387    1996   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA                STRUCT. ADJIJST. TA                      0.00        3.80        0.00               1.51        1.67        0.00
AM-PE-35757    1995   GOVT. OF ARMENIA                   POWER MAINTENANCE                        0.00       13.70        0.00               .82         1.18        0.00
AM-PE-8277      1995   GOVT OF ARMENIA                  IRRIGATION REHAB.                         0.00       43.00        0.00              20.44       13.53        0.00
Total                                                                                             0.00      202.75        0.00             134.02       29.60        4.99
Active Projects     Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  67.88              221.81              289.69
of which has been repaid:                      0.00                 .19                .19
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 202.75              218.51              421.26
Amount sold:                                      0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid:                                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed:                              134.02                0.00              134.02
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31 -Oct-98.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 6
Page I of 2
Armenia at a glance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central      Low-
Armenia       Asia  income       Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        3.8       476     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     530      2,320      350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       2.0      1,106      722
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                       A
Population (%)                                         0.8        0.2      2.1                    0 0
Labor force(%)                                         0.8        0.5       2 3     GNP                              Gross
per                            Primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1991-97)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   28
Urban population (% of total population)                69        67        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73        69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                14        25        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              ..         ..       61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  ..                  71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    ..         .        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   82        92        91                  Anenia
Male                                                  ..                 100                  Low-income group
Female                                                ..        ..        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                              .      2.5        1.6       1.6
Gross domestic investmentGDP                          32.7        7.7       9.4                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                        .      23 1       20.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      -24.9     -28 8
Gross national savingslGDP                                       -7.3      -6.2
Current account balance/GDP (excl grants)                       -25.1     -25.2     Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                                             1.3       1.5     Svns                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                   38.3      49.2
Total debt service/exports                                       17.1       9.5
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  5.8    -14.5      58         3.1       6.5            -     Armenia
GNPpercapita                         4.1    -12.9      8.0        54        5.7                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..    -4.2      14.6        1.2       7.8    _                                        1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% ofGDP)                                                                           4
Agriculture                                    ..    19 8        44.6      44.7
Industry                                              55.4      35.6       35.7     20-
Manufacturing                                                  25.2      25A             9
Services                                              24.8       19.8      19.6    -20
Private consumption                             .    45.7       112.9     1158     4C
Generalgovemmentconsumption                     ..    17.4       12.1      12.9                    GDI       0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      55.7       58.5
197646  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exporis and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   0.8     -5.2        1.0       2.7    so.
Industry                                      5.5    -21.4        1.2       3.0    40-
Manufacturing                               5.6    -14.3        1.4       3.3    20
Services                                      7.6    -15.3        8.3       1.6                           .  -
Pnvate consumption                            4.2    -13.1        6.5       1.9   -20      9           4    5    go   97
General govemment consumption                 3.5     -2.2       14.1       6.2   -40
Gross domestic investment                     7.3    -16.2      -17.4      24.2    40 -
Imports of goods and services                  ..    -4.4        8.1        3.3                  Exoports    -  Imports
Gross national product                        5.8    -12.0        8.4       5.6
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
DomesUic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..      18.6      14.0    4'000
ImplicitGDP deflator                            ..       ..      19.5      17.3     300
2.000-
Govemment finance                                                                   1.000.
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    0
Current revenue                                 ..        .      17.7      19.8               92   03   94   95   99   97
Current budget balance                          ..       ..      -2.0      -0.9             -     GDP deflator   O CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..      -8.6      -5.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976    1986        1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..       290       233     874
Gold&jewelry & other precious stones           ..       ..       126       102     728
Mineral products & metals/metal products       ..       .         55        47     583
Machinery&mechanical                           ..                 45        36     983
Total imports (cif)                                               760       793     437
Food                                          ..                259   271  291    9 !                       JJJ
Fuel and energy                               ..        .       220       226      140
Capitaligoods                                                    32 0 2 2 6   0                  J . l
Export pnce index (1995=100)                    ..                105        93
Import pnce index (1995=100)                    ..       ..       103       107               r Exports     rImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..       ..       102        87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)1976                                    1986       1996      1997 mCurrent account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       ..       368       330      0
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..       888       952     -s  91         l    l
Resource balance                                ..       ..      -520      -622     .l                            9
Net income                                                         36       145      '5
Net current transfers                           ..       ..        66        68    .20
-25
Current account balance (excl grants)           ..       ..      -418      -409    .30
Financing items (net)                                    ..       429       465    .35
Changes in net reserves                                  ..       -11       -56    -40
Memo:                                                                              _
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..       168       247
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                                414.0    491.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (USS millons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             0        0       612       801
IBRD                                          0        0         11        11
IDA                                           0        0        179       255                F62   All
Total debt service                               0        0        75        49                            i179
IBRD                                          0        0          0         1
IDA                                           0        0          1         2
Composition of net resource flows                                                      E: 167
Official grants                               0        0        179       154
Official creditors                            0        0        112       134
Private creditors                             0        0         62        50
Foreign direct investment                     ..        ..       18551
Portfolio equity                              0        0          7        16                               C:117
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0         81       106     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        0         92        76     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0          0         0     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0        0         92        76
Interest payments                             0        0          1         2
Net transfers                                 0        0         91        74
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/18/98



