Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22634
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-31530; TF-25534; TF-23312; TF-24811)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.2 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$63.4 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR A
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Dram
Dram = US$ 0.0018
US$ 1.0 = 554.0 Dram
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy        MOH       Ministry of Health
CBA       Central Bank of Armenia            MOP       Ministry of Privatization
DCA       Development Credit Agreement       MOSP    Ministry of Social Protection
ERC       Energy Regulatory Commission       MTEF      Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
FRP       Financial Rehabilitation Plan      OME       Operation and Maintenance Enterprise
GOA       Government of Armenia              SAC2      Second Structural Adjustment Credit
IAs       Implementing Agencies              SAC3      Third Structural Adjustment Credit
IAS       Intemational Accounting Standards    SAC4    Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit
IMF       Intemational Monetary Fund         SATAC2  Second Structural Adjustment Technical
ME        Ministry of Education                        Assistance Credit
MOE       Ministry of Energy                 USAID    United States Agency for Intemational
MOFE    Ministry of Finance and Economy                Development
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:   Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Director:   Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Task Team Leader:   Lev Freinkman, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARMENIA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     12
9. Partner Comments                                                                    13
10. Additional Information                                                            14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P051171                                      Project Name: Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Lev Freinkman                               TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: September 13, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Third Structural Adjustment Credit            L/C/TFNumber: IDA-31530; TF-25534;
TF-23312; TF-24811
Countny/Department: ARMENIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/22/1998                             Effective: 12/28/1998         12/28/1998
Appraisal:  10/22/1998                               MTR:
Approval:  12/22/1998                             Closing: 06/30/2000          06/23/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Republic of Armenia/Ministy of Finance and Economy
Othe,r Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes Linn                             Johannes F. Linn
Countr Alanager:    Judy M. O'Connor                          Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:      Samuel Otoo                               Samuel Otoo
Team Leader at ICR.   Lev M. Freinkman                        Lev M. Freinkman
ICR Prima?y Author:   M.R. Ghasimi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perjormance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of Armenia's Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC3), reflected in the Report
and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association dated November 24,
1998, were to support the Government's reform program to consolidate macroeconomic stability and lay



the foundation for sustained private-sector led growth over the medium term. The program included reform
measures to: (1) improve financial discipline in the private and public sectors; (2) accelerate private sector
development; and (3) ensure social sustainability of the reform process and preserve the country's stock of
highly-skilled human capital. The reforms supported by SAC3 were consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in July 1997, and emphasized private sector
development in Armenia to sustain economic growth. The goals and objectives of SAC3 were appropriate
and consistent with the needs to continue the reform process. Project objectives were realistic and linked to
monitorable performance indicators.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions
3.3 Original Components:
SAC3 had three major structural policy components: (1) strengthening public sector management and
improving financial discipline; (2) accelerating private sector development; and (3) ensuring social
sustainability of the reform process. These components were closely associated with reform measures
initiated under the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2). Reforms under SAC3 have been
supported by technical assistance provided under the Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance
Credit (SATAC2). SAC3's main objectives by component were:
Strengthening Public Sector Management and Improving Financial Discipline
*   Improve budget management systems
* Strengthen accounting and financial information systems
*   Implement a financial rehabilitation program, carry out tariff and regulatory reforms, and maintain
payment discipline in the energy sector
*   Reform district heat system
*   Implement a financial rehabilitation program, carry out tariff reforms, improve institutional capacity,
and maintain payment discipline in the irrigation sector
Accelerating Private Sector Development
*   Maintain momentum of the banking sector reform
*   Maintain momentum of the privatization program
*   Liquidate state-owned enterprises that have failed three attempts at privatization
*   Privatize power sector enterprises
Ensuring Social Sustainability of the Reform Process
*   Initiate reform of the pension system
*   Increase public spending shares on education and health
*   Advance restructuring of the education and health systems
3.4 Revised Components:
Although SAC3's original components remained unchanged, the credit third tranche was restructured in
January 2000, and a new fourth tranche was introduced. To buffer against the Russian crisis's spillover
effects, in early 1999, the original credit amount was raised US$15 million, from US$50 million to US$65
-2-



million equivalent, and distributed by US$5 million allocations among each of the original three tranches.
Table 1: Tranche Releases
Tranche       Expected     Actual      Amount in miDlion US$      Amount in
Date of     Date of          Equivalent          miDlion SDRs
Release     Release
1          12-31-98    12-28-98            14.727                10.5
2          06-30-99    09-20-99            23.435                17.0
3          12-31-99    01-20-00            19.818                14.5
4            NA        12-21-00            5.424                  4.2
Total                                        63.404                46.2
Source: Project files
Table 1 shows tranche amounts and release dates. Annex 1 provides additional information on SAC3's
original and restructured tranche conditions.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
The ICR rated SAC3's quality at entry satisfactory because the counterparts were deeply involved in
project preparation, and project design was responsive to the country's priorities. SATAC2 contributed to
SAC3's design and implementation, provided technical assistance and carried out studies that led to
legislative and procedural changes to implement SAC3 supported reforms. SAC3's strength at entry was
mainly due to the Government's deep and widespread commitment to the reform program. However, the
capacity of Armenia's budgetary and financial systems could not provide the Bank with a high degree of
comfort on credit funds' proper use. Accordingly, SAC3 helped initiate measures to improve the budgetary
and financial systems, which provided some assurance on proper use of SAC3's proceeds, as well as of
other donor supported financing. Although the economic environment presented considerable challenges,
SAC3 seized an opportunity to support the Government's efforts to deepen the structural reforms,
especially in enterprise restructuring and privatization.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objectie:
The Government successfully accomplished several major objectives prior to Board presentation, which
helped establish a strong base to implement the reform program, as laid out in Schedule 2 of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). While some delays occurred in fulfilling the tranche conditions,
especially in the privatization of the electricity distribution companies, the achievement of objectives has
been rated satisfactory, due to important development impact and effective and timely achievement of the
majority of the conditions. Annex 1 describes the fulfillment of tranche conditions.
Stabilization
Macroeconomic stabilization was a precondition for the reform program and was an important SAC3
component. It was essential for creating the environment necessary to carry out the supported reforms.
The pre-Board year of 1998 witnessed a high GDP growth of 7.3 percent, accompanied by a zero inflation
rate and a stable exchange rate. Since Board approval of SAC3, macroeconomic stability continued,
despite several adverse factors, including the spillover impacts of the Russia crisis in early 1999, political
- 3 -



assassinations of a number of Government officials and members of Parliament in October 1999, and the
2000 drought's impact on the economy. A competent economic team managed the challenging task of
achieving an overall satisfactory macroeconomic performance. Real GDP grew 3.3 percent in 1999 and
6.0 percent in 2000, and inflation rates were, respectively, 2.1 and almost zero in these years.
Table 2: Macroeconomic Indicators
Indicator                                      1998          1999        2000
Real GDP Growth (percent change)               7.3            3.3         6.0
CPI-percent (end of period)                     -1.2          2.1          0.4
Government Cash Balance (% of GDP)              -4.7          -5.5        -4.0
Exchange Rate (drains /US$)                     505           535          540
Current Acct. Balance (millions of US$)         -403          -307        -279
Gross International Reserves (millions of US$)  298           305          314
(In months of imports)      3.9           3.8         3.6
Source: IMF
Table 2 summarizes the macroeconomic setting. As can be seen, during 1998-2000, the economic team
succeeded in consolidating fiscal operations and maintaining an appropriate monetary policy with very low
inflation and stable exchange rate. In turn, the overall stable macroeconomic environment allowed
successful accomplishment of SAC3 supported structural reforms. Although the IMF program was
fundamental for macroeconomic stability, SAC3 proceeds were also important in providing the
non-inflationary budgetary financing which helped consolidate Armenia's economic stabilization and
finance its core social expenditures.
4.2 Outpzuts by components:
Structural Reforms
Strengthening Public Sector Management and Improving Financial Discipline
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). Armenia's structural reform program has given high
priority to MTEF development in order to facilitate more effective fiscal management. Designing the
MTEF was a SAC3 second tranche condition, and approving it for 2000-02 was a third tranche condition.
Both conditions were met. By March 1999, the Government implemented the legal framework necessary to
prepare the MTEF and established a working group to develop a pilot mid-term program budget for health
and education. By December 1999, the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) adopted the MTEF and
presented it to the Government for further elaboration. The Government is aware of the need for further
capacity building in the MOFE for sustainability of the MTEF. This would allow detailed assessment of
the medium-term economic and fiscal framework to be made and help maintain these projections in line
with the changing circumstances and the country's priorities.
Power Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP). Since Armenia gained independence, weak financial
condition of power sector enterprises has contributed to major quasi-fiscal deficits. To ensure these
enterprises' financial viability, the Government, with World Bank assistance, formulated an electricity
sector FPR in 1997. The FRP focused on improving billing collection, increasing energy tariffs, and other
important reform measures, to be carried out prior to SAC3 Board presentation. More specifically, the
- 4 -



FRP sought to announce a 12.5 average percent electricity tariff hike, to become effective from the
beginning of January 1999; prepare a timetable for bi-annual electricity tariff reviews; achieve an overall
collection rate of 85% for billings by November 1999; clear budgetary arrears to the energy sector; and
launch a study on heat strategy. All these measures were accomplished helping establish the groundwork
necessary to deepen the power sector reforms.
Under the second tranche conditions, the Government agreed to complete the first review of FRP, announce
and implement further reform measures to ensure power sector financial viability. All these measures were
completed in a satisfactory manner. During the first six months of 1999, the Government increased public
sector budgetary allocations to pay for electricity consumption, enforced repayments of debts by budget
organizations to the energy sector, and attained a 90 percent collection rate, against the agreed target of 87
percent. Additionally, as was agreed, over considerable political opposition, there was an increase in the
electricity tariffs in January 1999. The Government also made satisfactory progress in implementing the
energy sector's domestic debt restructuring plan, selected international auditors to conduct audits of the
major energy companies, mobilized international consultants to help the most important energy companies
convert their accounts to IAS-based standards and prepare a three-year maintenance program to ensure
reliable electricity supply.
Under the third tranche conditions, the Government agreed to finalize FRP's second review and complete
the 1998 financial audits of Armenergo, the Yerevan electricity Distribution Company, and one other
power distribution company. The Government met all these conditions and, in addition, attained an overall
collection rate of 88 percent, considerably reduced technical losses, and billed 90 percent of electricity
supply in 1999. It also continued implementing the domestic debt-restructuring plan for the energy
companies and established a task force to review and amend the Energy Law in order to strengthen the
regulator's independence and improve the privatization legal framework. The 1998 audits of the major
energy companies were delayed but were completed along with the 1999 audits by June 2000, in the
context of the restructured SAC3.
It should be noted, however, that while improvements were achieved in the financial condition of the power
sector, its fnancial condition remains fragile and dependent on the state budget performance and the
political processes. Sustainable commercialization of the sector will require proper privatization of key
sector enterprises, beginning with the electricity distribution companies.
The Irrigation Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP). In the irrigation sector, the Government
adopted a multi-year (1999-2005) FRP as one of SAC3's prior to Board presentation conditions. SAC3's
second tranche focused on several priority areas of FRP, including cost recovery targets, tariff adjustments,
and improved collection methods. The Governrent achieved satisfactory progress in FRP implementation
and approved several decrees to facilitate establishing the necessary legal framework to carry out the
irrigation sector restructuring program before the second tranche release.
SAC3's third tranche conditions in irrigation focused on three areas: (1) introducing new differential tariffs
for high and low cost zones in 2000 irrigation season; (2) improving the collection rate for water user
payments and (3) adopting intemationally accepted accounting standards (IAS) in the state-owned
companies in water and irrigation sectors. While the first condition was fully satisfied, the remaining two
areas were not fulfilled on time.
-5 -



Although the Government achieved considerable progress in cost recovery and payments collection for
water, including a full 100 percent switch to cash payments for irrigation water, by December 17, 1999,
the collection rate of payments from customers to the Operation and Maintenance Enterprise (OME) was
54 percent of total water supplied during the 1999 irrigation season, compared with the SAC3 target of 65
percent. The collection rate's shortfall was partly due to the adverse impact of the severe drought, which
led to farmers' inability to pay, as well as to the general political uncertainties, and less than full
commitment by the OME to collect full payments from water user groups. Following the restructuring of
SAC3, a more realistic collection rate of 60 percent was agreed upon, which was subsequently satisfied in
the context of the fourth tranche conditions of SAC3.
USAID financed technical assistance, through Hagler Baily Armenia, helped convert accounts of the
state-owned companies in the water and irrigation sectors to IAS. An accounting action plan was
developed and approved, training was provided for local accountants, accounting manuals were prepared,
and installation of new accounting software began in the participating companies before third tranche
release. The actual conversion of the companies 1999 financial statements was however completed as one
of SAC3's fourth tranche conditions. SATAC2 played a crucial role in implementing this component,
financing about US$150,000 worth of computer equipment and specialized accounting software for the
state-owned companies in the irrigation and water sectors.
Accelerating Private Sector Development
Banking System. With most of the banking sector legal and institutional framework already in place, the
country's banking systems achieved satisfactory performance prior to SAC3's approval. Banking systems
reforms supported under SAC3 focused primarily on restructuring the Savings Bank and Ardshinbank.
Before Board presentation, the Government approved a Decree on preparing development strategy for the
Savings Bank. Prior to second tranche release, the Government completed privatization of Ardshinbank
and transferred the remaining 66 percent of its share in this bank to private sector by June 14, 1999.
Enterprise Restructuring. SAC3 supported developing the legal framework for enterprise liquidation as
one of the prior to Board presentation conditions. The Government approved Decree No. 663, authorizing
liquidation of enterprises that fail three privatization attempts. SAC3's second tranche condition supported
implementation of this Decree and focused on completing liquidation of five enterprises, mainly in the
bakery sector, and identifying 35 more enterprises for liquidation. All these conditions were met. During
the second half of 1999, 23 additional small companies, mainly in food processing sector, were liquidated.
Before release of the third tranche, 24 of the 242 enterprises listed in Decree 663 were privatized and
liquidation procedures were initiated for the remaining enterprises.
Strengthening the Public Enterprise Accounting System. The prior to Board presentation condition on
public enterprise accounting systems was achieved by establishing regulations introducing IAS. There was
no second tranche condition in this area, but a third tranche condition focused on finalizing IAS conversion
of the selected state-owned enterprises in the irrigation, drinking water, power and air transportation
sectors. Following SAC3's restructuring, the Government fulfilled this condition as one of the fourth
tranche conditions.
Power Sector Privatization and Strengthening the Regulatory Framework SAC3's effectiveness
conditions aimed at preparing the legal framework required for privatization of energy sector enterprises,
and announcing and implementing a Privatization Action Plan for the electricity distribution companies.
The Government met this condition in a satisfactory way. There were two second tranche conditions in this
- 6 -



area. The first required completing the process for licensing the power sector enterprises, and the second
related to approving and issuing the offering memorandum for the Yerevan Electricity Distribution
Company. With respect to the second tranche conditions, all licenses except one were issued by June 1999,
and progress was made in finalizing the tender documents for the Yerevan Distribution Company. In
response to privatization advertisement placed in the local and international press in June 1999, 15
international companies were initially pre-qualified to receive the bidding documents. Subsequently, the
pre-qualification criteria were tightened to ensure that Armenia benefited only from companies with
adequate and profitable power sector experience and the initially pre-qualified bidders that could not meet
the financial and operational threshold were excluded from the list. The third tranche condition of
completing bid evaluation for the Yerevan Distribution Company and starting negotiations with the
potential bidder, as well as offering the other three distribution companies for privatization, was not met.
Following SAC3 restructuring, this condition was expanded to cover the sale of all four electricity
distribution companies and was introduced as the fourth tranche condition. However, the Government
needed more time to complete its due diligence to complete this condition and the Board of Executive
Directors agreed with a request to waive this condition in December 2000. The tender documents finally
issued in April 2001, failed to elicit any bids from pre-qualified bidders. However, the Government has
re-confirned its commitment to the successful privatization and is revising tender conditions with the
intention of completing the sale by end-2001.
Ensuring the Reform Process' Social Sustainability
Severe budgetary pressures created justified concerns that the Government might be unable to make the
social safety net payments. Indeed SAC3 funds were viewed as an indispensable source for meeting social
transfer shortfalls, and SAC3 conditions in this area were crucial in mitigating the adverse impact of the
structural reforns on the poor.
Social Assistance. SAC3 supported social assistance reforms that focused on: (1) establishing the legal
framework necessary for improving the Social Benefits System prior to Board presentation; (2) approving
the Law on the Social Benefit as a second tranche condition; and (3) implementing steps to ensure
sustainability of the pension system as a third tranche condition. The Government satisfied all these
conditions. It approved and submitted to Parliament a draft Law on Social Benefits that established legal
framework to enforce pension contributions and rationalize payment mechanisms for pensions. It also
adopted a comprehensive Pension Reform Strategy in December 1999, which focused mainly on tightening
the pension eligibility criteria.
Education. SAC3 supported conditions on restructuring the education system that focused on increasing
the 1999 budget share allocated to education to 11 percent of current expenditures, and making satisfactory
progress in implementing the pilot school decentralization and rationalization program. These conditions
were met. The 1999 budget share allocated to education was increased, as planned. The Government also
approved a new Law on Education, which provided the legal framework required for school
decentralization and rationalization. The law paved the way for 154 schools (10 percent of all schools) to
participate in the first phase of the rationalization process, which allowed them to have their own bank
accounts, receive specialized accounting training and accounting handbooks for school accountants and
principals, and implement procedures for school council members to be selected, confirmed and registered.
A monitoring plan for evaluating progress under this system was developed, and 50 to 60 additional
schools were included in the program in 2000.
Health. SAC3 supported conditions in the health sector focused on increasing the 1999 budget share
allocated to health to 10.5 percent of current expenditures and approving a hospital rationalization plan to
-7 -



contain the health sector's excess capacity. These conditions were met. The 1999 budget share allocated
to health was increased as planned, although the planned budget was executed only by 62 percent. By June
5, 1999, the Government approved the hospital rationalization plan, with a capacity reducing objective of
25 percent over a five-year period. Initial implementation has resulted in conversion of 31 rural small
hospitals into ambulatories and reduction of 500 hospital beds.
Summary. SAC3's objectives were met, and with one qualified exception, all conditions were fulfilled.
The country's economic team managed to maintain a reasonably stable macroeconomic environment, with
high economic growth accompanied by an inflation rate of less than 5 percent. SATAC2 played a key role
for SAC3's structural reforms success by supporting privatization and enterprise restructuring components
and providing the required capacity building and training for other components.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic r ate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of retturn:
Not Applicable
4.5 Instituttional development impact:
Overhauling the legal framework for reorganizing and privatizing the power sector, and private sector
development increased SAC3's institutional development impact. The required legal framework also
enhanced the transparency of the privatization process and contributed to competitiveness of commercial
and financial operations.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Despite some delays in meeting conditions, all supervision missions since 1998 rated implementation
progress and development objectives satisfactory. Restructuring the third tranche and introducing the
fourth tranche of SAC3 facilitated sustaining the supported reforms. In the end, all conditions but one,
concerning privatization of the four electricity distribution companies, were fully achieved. Three major
factors caused delays in finalizing privatization of the four electricity distribution companies. First, it took
from April to July 2000 for the Parliament to overcome its doubts and reinstate its previous approval of
privatizing the four electricity distribution companies. Second, it took time for the Government to
implement proper legal framework and prepare suitable bidding documents to privatize the four electricity
distribution companies. Third, the political situation and the Russian crisis adversely affected program
implementation. While the Board of the Executive Directors waived this unmet condition on December 20,
2000, it was expected to be fully implemented under the Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC4).
Several factors outside the control of the Government and Implementation Agencies (LAs) were responsible
for delays in fulfilling SAC3's conditions.
First, the assassination of the Prime Minster, key Government officials and some members of Parliament in
late 1999 gave rise to more than six months of internal tension between leading political fractions and
created uncertainties that constrained the Government's ability to carry out the reform program in general
and reforms supported by SAC3 in specific. Second, Parliament debated passing a new law covering
privatization of the four electricity distribution companies for three months. Third, to privatize the Yerevan
electricity distribution company, more time than expected earlier was needed to complete the preparatory
- 8 -



work: (i) to ensure a better quality and more comprehensive privatization process by offering all four
electricity distribution companies simultaneously; (ii) raise strategic investor confidence by reserving up to
20 percent of each electricity distribution company's shares for the EBRD; and (iii) improve the quality of
tender documents and the tendering process. Fourth, meeting the collection rate target for irrigation was
delayed because the severe drought and the higher than expected level of consumption of irrigated water
adversely affected the farmers' ability to pay. Furthermore, the political uncertainties, including local
Government elections, influenced the irrigated water collection rate.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In the process of disposing of state-owned enterprises in general, and those particularly in the electricity
distribution companies, the GOA faced considerable opposition to privatization from sectoral interest
groups. However, a competent, hardworking, and committed economic team managed to design and
successfully carry out a comprehensive structural reform program, covering several key sectors of the
Armenian economy, including fiscal management systems, enterprise restructuring, energy sector reforms,
irrigation, social protection, and restructuring education and health. The Government's close association
with the IMF and its high degree of ownership of the supported stabilization program also helped create a
stable macroeconomic environment which in turn enabled successful implementation of the structural
reform measures.
Because of the uncertainties mentioned in section 5.1 above, SAC3 was restructured in January 2000, and
the restructured third tranche (US$19.8 million equivalent) was released on January 19, 2000. A new
fourth tranche of SDR 4.2 million was introduced and was expected to be released upon satisfactory
completion of the four unmet conditions: (i) completing the audit of the selected power sector companies;
(ii) achieving the collection target rate in the irrigation sector; (iii) using IAS by the state-owned enterprises
in preparing the 1999 financial statements, and (iv) privatizing four electricity distribution companies. To
provide the Government adequate opportunity to meet these conditions, on June 14, 2000, the Bank
management agreed to extend SAC3 closing date and established June 23, 2001 as the new closing date.
By end 2000, the Government satisfied three of these four conditions, with only privatization of the
Yerevan electricity distribution companies and the three other electricity distribution companies unmet.
The Government indicated that it required more time to obtain financial and legal advice for establishing a
sound regularly framework in order to avoid the problems experienced in privatizing the telecommunication
company. On the positive side, the extensive debate over privatization helped strengthen the Govermment's
ownership of the tendering process. The Government secured an intemational law firm (Chadboume &
Parke) to represent it in negotiating with the potential bidders and helping draft better tender documents.
Meanwhile, the delays in disbursements under SAC3 and SAC4 were contributing to severe budgetary
pressures. The Government had assumed that the 2000 budget would receive 1.3 percent of GDP more in
adjustment lending from the World Bank than it actually did. Additional demand for public spending on
seed and social assistance, caused by the severe drought, also increased pressure on the budget. As a
result, on December 20, 2000, the Executive Directors of IDA approved the Government's request for a
waiver of the unmet condition, and the remaining funds of US$5.4 million equivalent were disbursed to the
Government as the fourth and final tranche of SAC3. The waiver request was approved because the
Government made satisfactory overall progress in carrying out the structural reforms, including
privatization in other areas and enterprise restructuring.
Despite considerable improvement in the quality of the tender documents, the tender did not result in any
responsive bids, mainly because investors were engaged in similar privatization in other parts of the region.
Due to the importance attached by both the Government and the Bank to completing the privatization of the
-9-



electricity distribution companies, a floating tranche was introduced under SAC4, whose disbursement
would take place when this condition is fully satisfied.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In implementing the SAC3 supported reform program, some sector ministries experienced a gradual
weakening of their power, and subsequently intensified their resistance to the reform program. Some sector
ministries felt that their ability to appoint management, control activities and cash flow would diminish, and
in many instances, would be lost following successful implementation of the structural reforms. Although
the resistance caused some delays, the harm was temporary and all conditions except one were finally fully
satisfied.
One of the factors within the control of the Government responsible for delays in fulfilling SAC3's
conditions was the delay in using the IAS by the state-owned enterprises in irrigation, the water sector, and
airlines in preparing the fiscal year 1999 financial statements. This was because the Government wanted to
use the experience gained in converting the power sector enterprises to IAS.
5.4 Costs andfinanicing:
The total original credit amount was US$50 million equivalent (SDR35.1 million), as reflected in the
Report and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Director, dated November 24,
1998. In response to GOA's request for additional financial support to safeguard against the Russian
crisis, the Bank management requested, and the IDA Executive Directors approved, increasing the credit
amount by US$15 million equivalent, from US$50 million to US$65 million, and accommodating the
increase through three equal US$ 5 million allocations to each of the three tranches. In December 2000,
the Government of the Netherlands co-financed SAC3 with a grant for 10 million Dutch guilders (US$3.8
million equivalent) as additional balance of payments support to mitigate the adverse impact of a severe
drought that seriously affected parts of the country. All funds were disbursed. SAC3 was made on IDA
terms, with 35 years maturity and a 10-year grace period.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sistainabilitv rating:
Due to the irreversible nature of many of the SAC3 supported reform measures, the Government's
commitment to these reforms, and the ongoing implementation of SAC4, SAC3's sustainability is rated
likely.
Many reform measures supported by SAC3, including those related to improving budget management
systems, privatizing and liquidating public enterprises, restructuring education and health and strengthening
social assistance, have already been fully carried out and their reversal would be difficult. Sustainability of
the financial improvement of the energy sector enterprises will be addressed through completion of the
privatization of the electricity distribution companies under SAC4. With regard to the irrigation sector,
further reforms are required to make improved performance sustainable. Although the sustainability of
SAC3's supported structural reform measures is likely, this may not be true for macroeconomic stability.
Fiscal pressures may lead to loose monetary policy. Even with likely sustainable structural reforms,
macroeconomic stability could be endangered. Although the four-digit inflation rate of 1994 was soon
reduced to a manageable single digit rate, the threat to macroeconomic stability should not be overlooked.
In this regard, the Govermment's quick reaction to the money supply increase of 25 percent during the
fourth quarter 2000, resulting in a 4.6 percent inflation rate in January 2001, reflects the Government's
- 1 0 -



high priority in dealing quickly with any possible sources of macroeconomic instability.
SAC4 will not only help sustain many of the reform measures implemented under SAC3, but will also
provide short-term counter measures to macroeconomic instability by furnishing much needed liquidity for
the budget and the balance of payments.
6.2 Transition arrangenment to regular operations:
Implementation of SAC4 is a logical continuation of the SAC3 supported reform program and will enhance
the chances for sustainability.  Progress will continue with privatization, enterprise restructuring,
strengthening the regulatory framework, financial sector reforms and further restructuring of education,
health, and the social safety net. Improving the investment and business climate, an area that should have
been addressed earlier by the Government under SAC3, is a central feature of SAC4 supported reforms,
and is considered by the Government to be critical for sustainable growth, job creation, and export
promotion.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
In assisting the GOA design a comprehensive package of reforms and sustain their implementation, the
Bank displayed deep country knowledge and profound insight at the task manager level. Technical
assistance provided by SATAC2 supported the prior to Board presentation conditions, establishing the
legal and institutional framework necessary to implement SAC3 supported reforms. This helped reduce
risks in carrying out privatization, implementing financial recovery in the power and irrigation sectors, and
preparing the electricity distribution companies for privatization. Notwithstanding the difficulties and
delays, SAC3 supported a major and comprehensive reform program, and the Bank performance was
satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Due to the multiplicity of credit components and the comprehensive nature of the envisioned reforms,
SAC3 supervision was both staff and time-intensive, and was difficult to conduct. Although there was
consistent progress, satisfying some conditions was nevertheless delayed.  The Bank demonstrated
flexibility in agreeing to a restructuring request, and later, by responding positively and promptly to the
Government's request for a waiver of one of the fourth tranche conditions. These actions facilitated
disbursement of much needed budgetary and balance of payment supports, while maintaining the policy
dialogue between the Bank and the Government, thus preserving the momentum in implementing the
remaining structural reforms. The supervision performance is thus rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank did well in helping the GOA to maintain and
deepen structural reforms under difficult conditions, and demonstrated its ability to conduct constructive
dialogue during SAC3's supervisions. Four previously approved adjustment operations, along with two
supporting technical assistance credits, provided an opportunity for the Bank to gain deep country
knowledge. The result was a set of challenging but meaningful reform measures that were supported under
SAC3.
Borrower
- 11 -



7.4 Preparation:
The GOA and lAs demonstrated a high degree of ownership in project design. The GOA and IAs greatly
benefited from experience gained from the previously prepared adjustrnent operations, several IDA sectoral
projects, and two related technical assistance projects.
7.5 Governmenit inmplemnentation performance:
The GOA implementation performance was satisfactory. There were delays in meeting some conditions,
but the Government had to deal with various competing interests, especially in the Parliament, in getting
approval for carrying out privatization of the electricity distribution companies. Interruption in the
country's political process also had some adverse impact on the Government's ability to implement the
envisioned reforms on schedule.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
The main lAs were the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE), the Ministry of Energy (MOE), the
Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC), Central Bank of Armenia (CBA), the Ministry of Privatization
(MOP), the Ministry of Social Protection (MOSP), the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Ministry of
Education (ME). Officials from the MOFE were supportive of the reform program. MOP and MOE
performance were satisfactory, but required supervision and persuasion. All lAs did a satisfactory job in
utilizing SATAC2 technical assistance to prepare and carry out reforms supported by SAC3.
7.7 Overall Borrower pe; orrnance:
Borrower performance, GOA and IAs, taken as a whole, was satisfactory and contributed to SAC3
successful implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
Technical Assistance Credits play an important role in the success of adjustment operations to the
extent that they are tailored to the required reforms and are flexible to needs as they arise.
The Japan PHRD Fund and SATAC2 contributed to SAC3's design and implementation and helped to
carry out studies that led to legislative and procedural changes to implement SAC3's supported reforms.
SATAC2 was essential for implementation of the enterprise restructuring and privatization. It helped to
provide the required legal framework, without which it would have been impossible to have meaningful
restructuring and privatization. It also played a crucial role in introducing IAS to the state-owned
companies in the water and irrigation sectors. Close coordination of the technical assistance funded by the
bilateral and the multilateral donors provided a critical mass of high-quality advice.
Realistic estimates of privatization obstacles and timing requirements in adjustment operations can be
critical.
The Government and the Bank originally underestimated the barriers to the strategic privatization of the
electricity distribution companies, which resulted in originally imposing policy conditions that could not be
completed in the targeted time. However, privatization in sectors with deep vested interests will almost
invariably be fraught with unforeseen obstacles and delays. Conditionality can be used to build the needed
political consensus and momentum, but it may become necessary to exercise flexibility in granting waivers
for justifiable reasons.
- 12 -



A good quality counterpart is crucial for successful implementation of a comprehensive adjustment
operation.
A capable, hardworking and comnmitted economic team in the Government permitted smooth
implementation of a complex and comprehensive reform program.
9. Partner Comments
(q) Borrower/implementing agency:
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT III
The third consecutive Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC3), provided to Armenia by the IDA was
a logical and successful continuation of the previous two credits (SAC1 and SAC2) aimed to support the
Government's reform program to consolidate macroeconomic stability and lay the foundation for sustained
private-sector led growth over the medium term. The credit represented a significant source of budget
deficit financing, which allowed the Government to continue pursuing the reform program that included
measures to further improving financial discipline in the private and public sectors, accelerating private
sector development, ensuring social sustainability of the reform process and preserving the country's stock
of highly-skilled human capital. Taking into consideration Armenia's limited access to altemative sources
of budget support, SAC3, in the Government's view, was of crucial importance to avoid additional
contraction of the level of public expenditures in the socially sensitive areas such as health, education,
social services and basic infrastructure, which would have directly affected the most vulnerable layers of
population. It became especially important in the light of political (parliament assassinations) and natural
(severe drought) disasters that the country had gone through.
The Government of Armenia holds the view that SAC3 was successful in extending the necessary
support for the second generation reforms, aimed to capitalize on the positive effects and strengthen the
foundations of first generation stabilization reform package, undertaken with support of SAC l and SAC2.
Those reforms were mainly targeted at: (i) strengthening public sector management and financial discipline
through improving budget management, accounting and financial information systems; implementing
financial rehabilitation, carrying out tariff reforms and improving institutional capacity in such sectors as
energy and irrigation; (ii) accelerating private sector development through banking sector reform,
privatization and liquidation; (iii) ensuring social sustainability of the reform process through reforning the
pension system, restructuring and increasing public spending shares on education and health.
The World Bank Armenia country team was extremely helpful in maintaining policy dialogue and
responsive in identifying priorities of reform program objectives. Design and implementation of SAC3 has
benefited from the parallel availability of Technical Assistance funding through SATAC2, which provided
sufficient amount of resources to carry out relevant studies to precede legislative and procedural changes
necessary to implement SAC3-supported reforms in a timely manner. Previous reform achievements
supported by SAC1 and SAC2 - stable macroeconomic environment with very low inflation and stable
exchange rate, appropriate and consolidated monetary policy - were critical for successful accomplishment
of SAC3 reform program. Despite considerable challenges presented by the economic and political
enviromnent, SAC3 effectively supported the Government's efforts to deepen the structural reforms,
especially in enterprise restructuring and privatization.
In the Government's opinion, the project supported by SAC3 was especially successful in the
- 13 -



following sectors:
*   Public finance: development and introduction of Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
*   Power sector financial rehabilitation: improvement inn billing collection, tariffs revision, clearing
budgetary arrears, domestic debt restructuring, international audit of major energy companies,
launching a heat study strategy.
*   Private sector development: reforms in the banking sector, enterprise restructuring and liquidation,
strengthening the public enterprise accounting system by converting selected state-owned enterprises to
LAS.
*   Social assistance: introducing a new means-tested poverty benefit.
*   Education: implementing a pilot in school rationalization and decentralization.
*   Health: increasing a share of budget expenditures allocated to public health, approving the hospital
rationalization plan.
At the same time, the Government realizes that further success and sustainability in reformn process
is dependent on continuous capacity building in governmental structures and consolidation on the political
arena. Certain elements of reforms, especially in the energy sector and irrigation were less successful.
Privatization of the four electricity distribution companies was delayed due to continuous debates in the
Parliament, as well as insufficient time to introduce a proper legal framework for the bidding process.
Also, the Government did not achieve the collection target in irrigation, which was mainly due to severe
drought, as well as political uncertainties and non-sufficient commitment from the collecting entity. These
reforms will be completed in 2001.
The Government appreciates the amount of flexibility and understanding displayed by the Bank in
the light of factors outside the Government's control that hampered proper implementation of specific
elements of the SAC3 program. The pace of reforms is expected to be fully restored. The current
Government reform program provides for further deepening of structural reform agenda, some components
of which are supported by the follow-up IDA Credit SAC4.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Key Performance Indicators Matrix
Measures taken Prior to    Second Tranche      Original Third Tranche   Restructured Third        Fourth Tranche
Board Presentation         Conditions              Conditions         Tranche Conditions          Conditions
Maintain sustainable
Macroeconomic
Framework
Satisfactory           Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Satisfactory            Satisfactory
macroeconomic          macroeconomic          macroeconomic           macroeconomic           macroeconomic
performance.           performance.            performance.           performance.            performance.
Improve Budgetary
Management
The GOA introduced a   The GOA approved the   The GOA approved the
revised process for budget first MTEF for 2000-02,  first MTEF for 2000-02,
planning, evaluation, and which was consistent with which was consistent with
management, in the     a longer term           a longer term
context of a Medium-Term macroeconomic         macroeconomic
Expenditure Framework  framework.              framework.
(MTEF).
- 15 -



Measures taken Prior to    Second Tranche      Original Third Tranche   Restructured Third         Fourth Tranche
Board Presentation         Conditions              Conditions          Tranche Conditions          Conditions
Power Sector Financial
Recovery
The GOA updated the    The GOA and the The    The GOA and the ERC    The GOA demonstrated  Intemational auditors
Financial Rehabilitation   Energy Regulatory   completed a second review satisfactory progress with completed their audits of
Plan (FRP) as envisaged  Commission (ERC)      with IDA of the         the implementation of the the 1998 financial
under Government Decree completed a review of the implementation of the FRP Power Sector Financial   statements of Armenergo,
No. 555.               implementation of the FRP and agreed on         Rehabilitation Plan (FRP). Yerevan Distribution, and
and agreed on           implementation of                              an additional distribution
implementation of       appropriate measures. The                      company.
measures such as tariff   ERC adjusted tariffs, in
adjustment, collection of  accordance with the
arrears, and other      requirements of the Energy
measures defined in     Law.
Decree 555.
The ERC announced: (i) a Overall collections   International auditors  The GOA and the ERC
12.5% adjustment in     average for 1999) reached would have completed    completed a second review
average electricity tariff  at least 87% of billings;  their audit of the 1998    with IDA of the
and the revised tariff    (ii) at least 84% of supply financial statements of   implementation of the FRP
structure to be effective on was billed; (iii) collections Armenergo, Yerevan  and agreed on
1/1/99; and (ii) a timetable from commercial   Distribution, and an    implementation of
for bi-                customers averaged at    additional distribution    appropriate measures.
annual tariff reviews.    least 92% of billing for   company.
1999.
Overall collections for   e Govenmment approved The power sector       Overall collections
September-November,   its strategy for heat supply enterprises revalued their (average for 1999) reached
1998 reached 85% of    and introduced subsidy    assets.               at least 90% of billings;
illings and all budgetary  cutting measures for the                   (ii) at least 86% of supply
arrears to the energy sector 1999-2000 heating season.                 was billed; (iii) collections
were cleared,                                                          from commercial
customers averaged at
least 94% of billing for
1999.
The Prime-Minister issued                      Overall collections
a decision requiring                           (average for 1999) reached
appropriate authorities to                     at least 90% of billings;
repare, by June 30, 1999,                     (ii) at least 86% of supply
a heat supply strategy for                     is billed; (iii) collections
the country.                                   from commercial
customers averaged at
least 94% of billing for
1999.
- 16-



Measures taken Prior to    Second Tranche     Original Third Tranche   Restructured Third       Fourth Tranche
Board Presentation         Conditions             Conditions         Tranche Conditions         Conditions
Power Sector
Privatization and
Strengthening
Regulatory Framework
The GOA announced a   The process of licensing of Bid evaluation for the  rhe GOA maintained the The Government's Tender
Privatization Action Plan  power sector enterprises  Yerevan Distribution  rivatization timetable as Commission would have
for electricity distribution was completed.   Company would have been outlined in its Decision   completed its evaluation of
companies to be                               completed and negotiations No. 57 of November 18,  bids for the four power
implemented in 1999                           started.               1999, including issuing   distribution companies and
(effectiveness condition).                                           offering memoranda for all have started negotiations
four power distribution   with the winning bidders
companies.            for completing the transfer
of at least 51% of shares in
each company to the
winning bidder. This
condition was waived in
December 2000. Tender
documents finally issued
in April 2001 failed to
elicit any bids from
pre-qualified bidders.
However, the Government
has re-confirmed its
commitment to the
successful privatization
and is revising tender
conditions with the
intention of completing the
sale by end-2001 as one of
the SAC4 conditions.
The offering memorandum The other three
for the Yerevan        distribution companies
Distribution Company    will be offered for
was approved and issued. privatization.
- 17 -



Measures taken Prior to     Second Tranche       Original Third Tranche   Restructured Third          Fourth Tranche
Board Presentation          Conditions               Conditions          Tranche Conditions           Conditions
Irrigation
The GOA issued a Decree The GOA demonstrated   The GOA took steps to   The GOA announced a    The GOA furnished to the
adopting a multi-year   satisfactory progress in the achieve 65% cash    new differentiated tariff   Association satisfactory
(1999-2005) financial    implementation of the    collections of user   for the 2000 irrigation  evidence that the rate of
rehabilitation program for financial rehabilitation    payments for the 1999    season to achieve a cost  collection for payments to
the irrigation sector.  plan. New irrigation    irrigation season as a   recovery level of at least  Operations and
tariffs for the 1999 season whole.                8%.                     Maintenance Enterprise
were announced. In-kind                                                   (OME) from customers for
payments were abolished.                                                  irrigation water reached at
least sixty percent (60%)
of total irrigation water
supplied during the 1999
irrigation.
The GOA mandated a new The GOA would announce
organizational and      by 11/30/99, a new
management structure in  differentiated tariff for the
the sector.             2000 irrigation season.
Enterprise Restructuring
The Prime Minister      The GOA completed        The GOA completed       The GOA achieved
approved the Decree No.  liquidation of at least 5    iquidation of at least 15  satisfactory progress in
663 to initiate in 1999 the enterprises.         additional enterprises.   implementing the Decree
liquidation of all                                                       No.663 of 11/18/98,
enterprises that will have                                               including: (a) completed
failed three attempts at                                                 liquidation of 23 additiona
rivatization.                                                           enterprises; and (b) all the
enterprises included in the
Decree were either
rivatized or the
liquidation process with
respect to these enterprises
________________________  started.
The GOA advanced the   At least 20 additional    The GOA provided
liquidation process of the official notifications of    satisfactory
15 enterprises and publish enterprise liquidation were implementation of the
official notifications of  ublished.             Decree No. 663.
their liquidation.
- 18-



Measures taken Prior to    Second Tranche      Original Third Tranche   Restructured Third         Fourth Tranche
Board Presentation          Conditions             Conditions          Tranche Conditions          Conditions
Restructuring the
Banking Sector
The Prime-Minister     The GOA completed
approved a Decree for the privatization of
reparation of the     Ardshinbank.
development strategy for
the Savings Bank.
Strengthen Accounting
System
The GOA approved                               Selected SOEs in        The GOA has submitted  The GOA submitted to the
regulations for the                            irrigation, drinking water, satisfactory evidence that Association satisfactory
introduction in 1999-2000                      power sector and the    state-owned enterprises in evidence that state-owned
f the core lAS-consistent                     airline would complete   the power sector have used enterprises in the irrigation
accounting standards and                       switch to the IAS.      lAS-consisted standards  and water sectors, and the
conversion of the                                                      for the preparation of their state-owned airline have
enterprise sector to                                                   financial statements for the used lAS-consistent
lAS-consistent accounting.                                             fiscal year of 1999.    standards for the
preparation of their
financial statements for the
fiscal year of 1999.
-19 -



Measures taken Prior to    Second Tranche       Original Third Tranche   Restructured Third        Fourth Tranche
Board Presentation         Conditions              Conditions          Tranche Conditions           Conditions
Restructuring in
education and health
sector
The Ministry of Education  he GOA approved the   The GOA achieved      The GOA achieved
submitted revised plans for plan for piloting of school satisfactory progress in the satisfactory progress in the
piloting of rationalization, rationalization and related implementation of the    implementation of the
new school status and    regulations.          school pilots, with the first school pilots, with the first
funding mechanism in                           phase of rationalization   phase of rationalization
school year 1999-2000 for                      started in at least 3   started in 3 educational
150 schools.                                   educational zones, and    zones, and new school
new school status and    status and funding
funding mechanisms      mechanisms introduced in
introduced in 150 schools. more than 150 schools.
1999 budget draft provides The GOA approved the
for the share of allocated hospital rationalization
to education to 11% of    lan that provided for
current expenditures and  reduction of excessive
to health to 11% of current capacity in the sector.
expenditures.
Strengthening Social
Assistance and Insurance
The GOA adopted a      The GOA submitted to the rhe GOA implemented   The GOA implemented
Decree to modify the   Parliament a Draft Law on specific steps to strengthen specific steps to strengthen
existing system of social  State Benefits, which  sustainability of the  sustainability of the
benefits from 1/1/99, and  rovided a comprehensive existing pension system,  existing pension system,
made it fully consistent   egal framework for family which was based on the   based on the following
with 1999 budget       benefits.               following principles: (i)   rinciples: (i) tightened
allocations for social                         tightening eligibility  eligibility criteria; (ii)
protection.                                    criteria; (ii) strengthening strengthened enforcement
enforcement mechanisms mechanisms for collection
for collection of pension   of pension contributions;
contributions; (iii)    and (iii) rationalized
rationalizing payment    ayment mechanisms for
mechanisms for pensions;  ensions.
(iv) transferring social
pensions from the list of
social insurance benefits.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome t Impact Indicators:
lndicatorlMatrix                    Projected in last PSR     -           ActualIltest Estfmate
Maintained Sustainable Macroeconomic  Satisfactory by December 2000          Satisfactory by December 2000
Framework
Improved Budget Management            Satisfactory by January 2000           Satisfactory by January 2000
Improved financial conditions of the power   Satisfactory by December 2000   Satisfactory by December 2000
sector enterprises
Increased private sector role in the power    Satisfactory by December 2000  Satisfactory by December 2001
sector
Strengthened fiscal discipline in the irrigation Satisfactory by January 2000  Satisfactory by December 2000
and drinking water sectors
Accelerated reorganization and liquidation of Satisfactory by January 2000   Satisfactory by January 2000
the public enterprises
Accelerated private sector development in  Satisfactory by September 1999    Satisfactory by September 1999
the banking sector
Strengthened accounting system in the  Satisfactory by January 2000          Satisfactory by December 2000
irrigation, drinking water, power sectors and
airlines
Restructured the education and health  Satisfactory by January 2000          Satisfactory by January 2000
sectors
Strengthened social assistance system  Satisfactory by January 2000          Satisfactory by January 2000
Sources:
(1) Armenia - Report and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors of SAC3 inn an amount of
SDR35.6 million, November 24, 1998.
(2) Armenia - Third Structural Adjustment Credit (31530 - AM) Memorandum of the President, Release of the Fourth Tranche
- Waiver of one condition, December 12, 2000.
- 21 -



Output Indicators:
Prepare the Medium-Term Expenditure   Completed in March 1999               Completed in March 1999
Framework (MTEF) FOR 2000-02 consistent
with a longer term macroeconomic framework
Announce a 12.5 percent electricity tariff    Completed in November 2000    Completed in November 2000
hike, achieve an overall collection rate of 85%
for billings and clear the budgetary arrears to
the energy sector
Reach the overall collectons (average for    Completed in January 2000      Completed in January 2000
1999) of 90% of electricity billings; (ii) bill at
least 86% of electricity supply and (iii) collect
from commercial customers on averaged at
least 94% of billing for 1999
Complete the second review of the Power   Completed in January 2000         Completed in January 2000
Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP)
with IDA and agree on a set of appropriate
measures for implementation
Complete the internabonal audit of the 1998  Completed in January 2000      Completed in December 2000
financial statements of Armenergo, Yerevan
Distribution, and one other distribution
company
Announce a Privatization Action Plan for the  Completed in December 1998    Completed in December 1998
electricity distribution companies for
implementation in 1999
Complete bid evaluation for the privatization  Completed in December 2000
of the Yerevan Distribution Company and
three other power distribution companies and
start negotiations for privatization of these
companies
Issue a Decree to adopt a multi-year  Completed in December 1998            Completed in December 1998
(1999-2005) Financial Rehabilitation Program
for the irrigation sector
Announce a new differentiated tariff structure Completed in November 1999   Completed in November 1999
for the 2000 irrigation year
Fumish to the Association satisfactory  Completed in January 2000           Completed in December 2000
evidence that the rate of collection for
payments from the irrigation water customers
reached at least sixty percent (60%) of the
total irrigation water supplied during the 1999
Approve a Decree to initiate the liquidation of Completed in December       Completed in December
all enterprises that will have failed three
attempts at privatization in 1999
Complete privatization or liquidation of all the Completed in January 2000  Completed in January 2000
enterprises inciuded in the Decree 663
Approve a Decree to prepare the       Completed in December 1998            Completed in December 1998
development strategy for the Savings Bank
Complete the privatization of Ardshinbank    Completed in September 1999    Completed in September 1999
Submit satisfactory evidence that     Completed in January 2000             Completed in January 2000
- 22 -



state-owned enterprises in the power sector
have used IAS for preparation of their
financial statements in 1999 fiscal year
Submit satisfactory evidence that state  Completed in January 2000           Completed in December 2000
-owned enterprises in the irrigation and water
sectors and the state-owned airline have
used IAS standards for preparation of their
financial statements in 1999 fiscal year
Submit revised plans for piloting the  Completed in December 1998            Completed in December 1998
rationalization and funding mechanisms for
school year 1999-2000, for 150 schools
Ensure that the 1999 budget allocation to    Completed in December 1998      Completed in December 1998
education and health increased to 11% of the
current expenditures
Achieve satisfactory progress to implement  Completed in January 2000        Completed in January 2000
the school pilot program
Adopt a Decree to modify the existing system Completed in December 1998      Completed in December 1998
of social benefits and make It fully consistent
with the 1999 budget alocations for social
protection
Implement specific steps to strengthen the   Completed in January 2000       Completed In January 2000
sustainability of the existing pension system
based on the following pfinciples: (i)
tightened eligibility criteria; (ii) strengthened
enforcement mechanisms for collection of
pension contfibutions; and (iii) rationalized
payment mechanisms for pensions
End of project
Sources:
(I) Armenia - Report and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors for SAC3 in an amount of
SDR35.6 million, November 24, 1998.
(2) Armenia - Third Structural Adjustment Credit (31530 - AM), Memorandum of the President, Release of the Fourth Tranche
- Waiver of one condition, December 12, 2000.
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
'; :!~~~~~~~~~pri1, ,- '~u~$~    '   ,mt. Of
BOP/Budget Support                                 50.00          63.40            127
Total Baseline Cost                                50.00          63.40
Total Project Costs            50.00          63.40
Total Financing Required            50.00           63.40
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-;' Lxedtr Cateor   1-        '-B                                 N.B.F. -> -   Thtd Cs
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Methd               N.B.F.      Total Cost
.   .     .       |                   : ~~NC  Qh.er - 
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
i                      ~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
BOP /Budget Support      50.00                          63.40                 3.40    126.8
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
n/a
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1998                   2   TM,E                                S            S
September 1998              2   TM,E                                S            S
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 1998                2   TM,E                                S            S
November 1998               2   TM,E                                S            S
Supervision
April 1999                  2   TM,E                                S            S
July 1999                   1  TM                                   S            S
October 1999                3   TM,E,E                             S             S
January 2000                3   TM,E,E                              S            S
April 2000                  3   TM,E,E                              S            S
October 2000                2   TM,E                                S            S
January 2001                2   TM,E                                S            S
ICR
June 2001                   I   TM                                  5
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                12                    68,121.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                     20                   102,181.00
Supervision                               67                   412,398.00
ICR                                        3                    10,000.00
Total                                    102                   592,700.00
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Physical                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
0 Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
EJ Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
0 Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0l Other (Please specify)                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           OHSOS OU OHU
El Supervision                                       OHS OS   OU  OHU
CI Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  0 U   O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS   Ou   O HU
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
(1)   Report and Recommendation of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors on a Proposed
Third Structural Adjustment Credit in an amount SDR 35.6 Million to the Republic of Armenia, November
24, 1998.
(2)   International Development Association, Armenia - Third Structural Adjustment Credit
(31530-AM) Release of the Fourth Tranche - Waiver of One Condition, December 12, 2000.
(3)   International Development Association, Armenia - Amendment to the Third Structural Adjustment
Credit (Cr. 31530-AM)-Restructuring of Third Tranche and Introduction of Fourth Tranche, January 10,
2000.
(4)   International Monetary Fund, Republic of Armenia - Staff Report for the 2001 Article IV
Consultation and request for Third-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility,
April 30, 2001.
- 30 -



