Report No. PID7015
Project Name                     Armenia-Third Structural Adjustment Credit...
(SAC III)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Adjustment Operation
Project ID                       AMPE51171
Borrower                         Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency              Ministry for Economic and Structural Reforms
Republican Square, Yerevan, Armenia
(3742) 520351; fax (3742) 151336
Date this PID prepared           October 30, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 22, 1998
Background. The stabilization program, sustained since spring 1994,
brought considerable macroeconomic gains and helped to establish a suitable
policy framework for structural reforms. After a slow-down in growth in 1997,
the Armenian economy has been growing at an annual rate of about 7 percent in
1998. Annual inflation is expected to fall below 8 percent in 1998, and the
budget deficit is projected to be less than 5.5 percent of GDP. This sound
macroframework has been recently complimented by exchange rate stability,
expansion in foreign direct investments and some export growth. Overall,
considerable progress was made across the board with an especially strong
record in macro management, privatization, trade liberalization and
development of basic legislation supportive of market reforms.
These achievements, however, are not sufficient to ensure longer-term
sustainability of economic growth in the Armenian economy, to address both
immediate social problems and short-term macro challenges. While the macro
economic situation remains strong, the Armenian economy is quite vulnerable
over the medium-term to the impact of the Russia crisis. Moreover, during the
first half of 1998, reforms slowed following the presidential elections and
associated personnel changes in administration. The most recent agreements
reached with the Government suggest that the process of post-election
reorganization is over and authorities are ready to energize their reform
efforts. It is expected that agreement with the IMF on the next ESAF program
will be concluded in early October.
Project Scope and Objectives. The principal objectives of Armenia's
reform program, supported by the proposed Credit, are: (i) consolidating
macroeconomic stability through further strengthening public sector management
and improving financial discipline (particularly in public utilities); (ii)
accelerating the development of the private sector through the completion of
privatization, enterprise and banking restructuring, development of capital
markets and reinforcement of property rights; and (iii) strengthening the
social safety net and facilitating the comprehensive reform of health and
education. The proposed credit will be the World Bank's fourth adjustment
credit to Armenia. As a quick disbursing operation, it will support the
country's balance-of-payments and budgetary requirement.
The SAC III would also support further deepening and consolidation of



several reforms that were originally outlined under the SAC II and broaden the
structural reform agenda to new sectors. The proposed credit builds on the
technical assistance support provided under the World Bank Structural
Adjustment Technical Assistance Credits (SATAC and SACTAC2). It also benefits
from the impact of other World Bank operations in Armenia such as Enterprise
Development (FY97), Electricity Distribution and Transmission (negotiated in
FY98), Title Registration (FY99), Primary Health (FY98) and Education (FY98)
projects. The success of the proposed credit hinges upon maintaining peace in
the country and having a stable macro-economic framework in agreement with the
IMF.
Environmental Aspects. In accordance with the Association's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
Benefits. The Credit provides an opportunity to help the government
sustain macro economic stability without drastic cuts in budget expenditures,
i.e. at much lower social costs. Longer term benefits relate to acceleration
of the reform implementation process in key structural areas. In addition,
the Bank Group's support for the Government program would be an important
signal for market participants regarding Armenia country risks. It would help
authorities to restore market borrowing at acceptable interest rates and
accelerate progress with major privatization transactions.
Potential Risks. A drastic deterioration in the macro and political
environment is possible, given an impact of the Russia crisis or a weakening
of authorities' reform willingness that would derive from approaching
elections and associated populist pressures. Among the major challenges will
be sustaining stabilization, deepening social protection and energy sector
reforms, and strengthening the public sector institutions.
The risks minimizing measures include: (i) It is suggested that the SAC
III will be a back-loaded operation with a strong up-front policy
conditionality. (ii) Preparation of the credit was proceeded by sector work
and policy dialogue, which became major tools to broaden consensus regarding a
policy package and reduce risks of the operation.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Team Leader:
Lev M. Freinkman, ECSPE
Tel.: (202) 458-7410
Fax.:   (202) 522-3607
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 6, 1998.
- 2 -



