Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3153 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 23, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3153 AM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated November 21, 1998 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read: 
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made."
(b)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly numbered 
as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
Page  2
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement."
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except as the Association 
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations." 
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and 
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Ardshinbank" means a commercial bank operating in accordance with its 
Charter, dated January 10, 1998; registration No. 48;  
(b)
"Armenergo" means a duly established state-owned closed joint-stock 
company operating in accordance with its Charter, dated January 22, 1998; registration 
No. 27314000069; 
(c)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;  
(d)
"Dram" means the lawful currency of the Borrower;  
(e)
"Energy Regulatory Commission" means a regulatory agency in the energy 
sector established pursuant to the President’s Decree No. 717, dated April 3, 1997; 
(f)
"IAS" means International Accounting Standards published by the 
International Accounting Standards Committee;  
(g)
"Irrigation Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan" means the Borrower’s 
plan for structural reforms and financial sustainability in the irrigation sector, 
approved by the Government Decree No. 741, dated November 24, 1998;
(h)
"OME" means Operations and Maintenance Enterprise "Vorogum", a duly 
established state-owned closed joint-stock company operating in accordance with its 
Page  3
Charter of June 2, 1998; registration No. 28614000377; 
(i)
"Power Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan" means the Borrower’s plan 
for improving financial sustainability of the power sector approved by Governmental 
Decree No. 555, dated September 7, 1998; 
(j)
"Savings Bank" means a duly established commercial bank operating in 
accordance with its Charter, dated October 26, 1998; registration No. 64; and 
(k)
"Yerevan Distribution Company" means a duly established state-owned 
closed joint-stock company operating in accordance with its Charter, dated January 14, 
1998; registration No. 27314001857. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-six million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 46,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account:
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
SDR 10,500,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after 
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement have been taken; and
(C)
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
SDR 27,500,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after 
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement have been taken; and
(C)
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic  policy framework is 
Page  4
consistent with the objectives of the Program; 
(e)
If, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice 
to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, 
within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved 
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part 
thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1 and September 1 commencing March 1, 2009 and ending September 1, 2033.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2018 shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace 
period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
Page  5
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Develop\1fment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has approved a privatization action plan for electricity 
distribution companies, acceptable to the Association; and  
(b)
the Borrower has entered into a contract with privatization advisors, 
acceptable to the Association, to assist with the implementation of the plan referred 
to in paragraph (a) above.
 Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
Page  6
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan, 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
24333 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Ruben Shugarian 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
Page  7
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, Manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);  
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not Participating 
Country or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) 
on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Section I: Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 
(d)(i)(B) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has issued a Government Decree which: (a) confirms institutional 
responsibilities of various governmental agencies for preparation of a Medium Term 
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for the years 2000-2002; and (b) approves a timetable and 
procedures for preparation, deliberations and approval of the MTEF.
2.
The Borrower and the Energy Regulatory Commission have completed a review with 
the Association of the implementation of the Power Sector Financial Rehabilitation 
Plan and the Borrower has: (a) announced measures to ensure financial sustainability 
of the power sector enterprises; (b) implemented a debt restructuring plan for the 
domestic debt accumulated by power, gas and heat enterprises as of November 1, 1998; 
and (c) achieved satisfactory progress in improving payments collection by power 
distribution companies in accordance with the targets established in the Power Sector 
Financial Rehabilitation Plan. 
Page  8
3.
The Energy Regulatory Commission has issued licenses to all enterprises in the 
electricity sector in accordance with the Energy Law dated September 1, 1997. 
4.
The Borrower has approved and issued an offering memorandum for privatization of 
the Yerevan Distribution Company. 
5.
The Borrower has publicly announced its district heating strategy, including 
subsidy cutting measures for the 1999-2000 heating season, satisfactory to the 
Association.
6.
The Borrower has: (a) achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of 
the Irrigation Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan, including achieving a cost 
recovery level of thirty-six percent (36%) for the irrigation sector (as such level is 
determined based on the methodology acceptable to the Association) for the 1999 
irrigation season; and (b) completed a study of the organization and management of OME 
and has issued a decree defining a new organizational and management structure for 
OME, based on the conclusions of the said study. 
7.
 The Borrower has completed privatization of Ardshinbank or initiated bankruptcy 
proceedings for the said bank in accordance with the applicable laws of the Borrower. 
8.
The Borrower has completed liquidation of at least five (5) enterprises included 
in the Prime Minister’s Decree No. 663, dated November 18, 1998; and has started the 
liquidation, through an official publication of the notice of liquidation, of at least 
20 more enterprises included in said Decree.  
9.
The Borrower has approved a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for piloting 
of school decentralization and rationalization, including a new funding mechanism for 
schools.
10.
The Borrower has approved and published a plan for hospital rationalization, 
acceptable to the Association. 11.
The Borrower has submitted to the Parliament a 
draft Law on State Benefits, acceptable to the Association.
Section II:  Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 
(d)(ii)(B) of this Agreement: 
1.
The Borrower has adopted the first Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for 
the period of 2000-2002, acceptable to the Association.
2.
The Borrower and the Energy Regulatory Commission have completed a second review 
with the Association of the implementation of the Power Sector Financial 
Rehabilitation Plan and the Borrower has: (a) achieved satisfactory progress in 
implementing the measures to ensure financial sustainability of the power sector 
enterprises including, but not limited to, adjustment of energy tariffs; (b) furnished 
to the Association satisfactory evidence that all power sector enterprises revalued 
their assets in accordance with the methodology acceptable to the Association; (c) 
achieved satisfactory progress in improving payments collection by power distribution 
companies in accordance with the targets established in the Power Sector Financial 
Rehabilitation Plan; and (d) furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that 
an audit of the 1998 financial statements of Armenergo, the Yerevan Distribution 
Company and one additional power distribution enterprise had been completed. 
3.
The Borrower has completed bid evaluation for the privatization of the Yerevan 
Distribution Company and has started negotiations for its privatization; and has 
issued offering memoranda  for at least three (3) other power distribution companies 
selected upon agreement with the Association.
4.
The Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that the 
rate of collection  for payments to OME from customers for irrigation water has 
reached at least sixty-five percent (65%) of total irrigation water supplied during 
the 1999 irrigation season. 
5.
The Borrower has introduced a differentiated irrigation water tariff  for the 
2000 irrigation season at the rate enabling the Borrower to achieve a cost recovery 
level of forty-eight per cent (48%) in the irrigation sector (as such level is 
determined based on the methodology acceptable to the Association) in the 2000 
irrigation season.    
6.
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in implementing the Prime 
Minister’s Decree No. 663, dated November 18, 1998, including: (a) at least fifteen 
(15) enterprises included in said Decree, in addition to the enterprises referred to 
Page  9
in paragraph 10 of Section I of this Schedule, have been liquidated; and (b) all the 
enterprises included in said Decree  have been either privatized or the liquidation 
process with respect to these enterprises has started. 
7.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association satisfactory evidence that 
state-owned public enterprises, selected upon agreement with the Association, have 
used IAS-consistent standards for the preparation of their financial statements for 
the fiscal year of 1999. 
8.
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of pilot 
programs for school decentralization and rationalization. 
9.
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in strengthening sustainability 
of the existing pension system.
