Page  1
January 19, 2000
His Excellency 
Levon Barkhudarian 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Republic of Armenia
Re:
Credit No.3153-AM (Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment 
Credit) between the Republic of Armenia (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association) dated December 23, 1998 (the Agreement). We 
also refer to our discussions concerning the restructuring of said Third Structural 
Adjustment Credit which would necessitate an amendment to the Agreement.
We hereby confirm the Association's agreement to the amendment set forth in the 
Annex to this Letter.
Please confirm your agreement with this amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter. This amendment shall become 
effective  upon receipt by the Association of the countersigned copy of this Letter. 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By /s/ Judy O'Connor
Country Director for Armenia
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Arman Kirakosyan
Authorized Representative
Date:  January 19, 2000 
ANNEX    
AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 3153-AM
1.
Preamble 
The Recital (B) is amended to read as follows:
"(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has 
decided in support of the Program as restructured to provide such assistance 
to the Borrower by making the Credit in four tranches as hereinafter 
provided;".
2.
Section 2.02
is amended to read as follows:
"(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account:
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn 
from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
SDR 10,500,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
Page  2
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement have been taken; and
(C)
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn 
from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
SDR 27,500,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 
2 
to this Agreement have been taken; and
(C)
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic  policy framework 
is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
(iii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn 
from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
SDR 42,000,000 unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Section III of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement have been taken; and
(C)
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic  policy framework 
is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program;".
3.
Schedule 2 is amended as follows:
(a)
Section II of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
as follows:
"Section II:  Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)(ii)(B) of this 
Agreement: 
1.
The Borrower has adopted the first Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for 
the period of 2000-2002, acceptable to the Association.
2.
The Borrower and the Energy Regulatory Commission have completed a second review 
with the Association of the implementation of the Power Sector Financial 
Rehabilitation Plan and the Borrower has: (a) achieved satisfactory progress in 
implementing the measures to ensure financial sustainability of the power sector 
enterprises including, but not limited to, adjustment of energy tariffs; (b) furnished 
to the Association satisfactory evidence that all power sector enterprises revalued 
their assets in accordance with the methodology acceptable to the Association; and (c) 
achieved satisfactory progress in improving payments collection by power distribution 
companies in accordance with the targets established in the Power Sector Financial 
Rehabilitation Plan.  
3.
The Borrower has issued offering memoranda for at least three (3) power 
distribution companies selected upon agreement with the Association. 
4.
The Borrower has introduced a differentiated irrigation water tariff  for the 
2000 irrigation season at the rate enabling the Borrower to achieve a cost recovery 
level of forty-eight per cent (48%) in the irrigation sector (as such level is 
determined based on the methodology acceptable to the Association) in the 2000 
irrigation season.    
Page  3
5.
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in implementing the Prime 
Minister’s Decree No. 663, dated November 18, 1998, including: (a) at least fifteen 
(15) enterprises included in said Decree, in addition to the enterprises referred to 
in paragraph 10 of Section I of this Schedule, have been liquidated; and (b) all the 
enterprises included in said Decree  have been either privatized or the liquidation 
process with respect to these enterprises has started. 
6.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association satisfactory evidence that 
state-owned public enterprises in the power sector, selected upon agreement with the 
Association, have used IAS-consistent standards for the preparation of their financial 
statements for the fiscal year of 1999. 
7.
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of pilot 
programs for school decentralization and rationalization. 
8.
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in strengthening sustainability 
of the existing pension system.
(b)
A new Section III is added to Schedule 2:
"Section III:  Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)(iii)(B) of this 
Agreement: 
1.
The Borrower has  furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that an 
audit of the 1998 financial statements of Armenergo, the Yerevan Distribution Company 
and one additional power distribution enterprise had been completed. 
2.
The Borrower’s Tender Commission has completed bid evaluation for the 
privatization of the Yerevan Distribution Company and three other power distribution 
companies referred to in paragraph 3 of Section II of this Schedule, and has started 
negotiations for privatization of said companies.  
3.
The Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that the 
rate of collection  for payments to OME from customers for irrigation water has 
reached at least sixty percent (60%) of total irrigation water supplied during the 
1999 irrigation season. 
4.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association satisfactory evidence that 
state-owned enterprises in the irrigation and water sectors, and the state-owned 
airline have used IAS-consistent standards for the preparation of their financial 
statements for the fiscal year of 1999.
