Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20288
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.435 MILLION
TO UNMIK FOR THE BENEFIT OF
KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO) (KOSOVO)
FOR AN
EDUCATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
May 2, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 16, 2000)
Currency Unit = Deutche Mark
DEM 1 = US$ 0.5042
US$ 1 = DEM 1.9833
FISCAL YEAR
Janaury 1 December 31
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:    Annette Dixon, ECSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Laura Rose (Health), Jim Stevens (Education)



EDUCATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ........................................................................2
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ........................................................................2
2. KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ........................................................................2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ........................................................................3
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ........................3
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ........................                                        ................................................3
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ...................                                            .............................. 11
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .......................................................................                                                          12
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................................................                                                                12
2. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ...........................................                                     ............................ 14
3. MONITORING AND EVALUATION ARRANGEMENTS ......................                                          ................................................. 15
D. PROJECT RATIONALE .......................................................................                                                                     15
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION  .........................................................  ....... 15
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ..........                                                        ............... 16
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN .......................................................................     16
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP .......................................................................     17
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ......................                                     ................................................. 17
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS .......................................................................                                                             17
1. ECONOMIC .......................................................................                                                                          17
2. FINANCIAL  (SEE ANNEX 4) ....................................................................... 1 7
3. TECHNICAL ....................................................................... 18
4. INSTITUTIONAL .......................................................................                                                                     18
5. SOCIAL ....................................................................... 19
6. SAFEGUARD POLICIES ........                     ............................................................... 21
F. SUSTAINABILITY  AND  RISKS ....................................................................... 21
1. SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................................                                                                   21
2. CRITICALRISKS .......................................................................                                                                     21
G. MAIN CONDITIONS .......................................................................                                                                       24
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITION  ....................................................................... 24
2. OTHER ........24
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .................................................                                                                                24
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .................................................                                                                               24
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ................................................. 25
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................................. 29
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ................................................. 39
ANNEX 4: FINANCIAL SUMMARY .................................................                                                                             40
ANNEX 5: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .................................................                                                     41
ANNEX 6: PROJECT PROCESSING SCHEDULE ................................................. 50
ANNEX 7: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE .................................................                                                                  51
iii






KOSOVO
Education and Health Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: May 2, 2000                                Team Leaders: James A. Stevens, Laura Rose
Country Manager/Director: Poortman Christiaan J.  Sector Manager/Director: Annette Dixon
Project ID: P0695 16                             Sector(s): EY - Other Education, HH - Population, Health
& Nutrition Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Grant from the Trust Fund for   Theme(s): EDUCATION;
Kosovo                                           HEALTHINUTRITION/POPULATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
D Loan            FICredit          C  Grant         C  Guarantee         Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.435
Proposed Terms: N/A
Grace period (years): N/A                             Years to maturity:
Comnmitment fee: N/A                                  Service charge: %
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign          Total
Government                                                   0.000           0.000         0.000
IBRD
IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING                                            0.030           4.405         4.435
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                            0.000           0.500         0.500
Total:                                                       0.030           4.905         4.935
Borrower: UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (UNMIK)
Responsible agency: UNMIK
UNMIK Departments of Education and Health and Social Welfare
Address: UJNMIK, Pristina
Contact Person: Mr. Dexner (Education) and Mr. Stalhandske (Health)
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2000        2001         2002        2003
Annual     0.1           2.1           1.8         0.4
Cumulative    0.1            2.2          4.0         4.4
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/28/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
OCSPAD P  R- M,,d.



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
EDUCATION
* to improve efficiency and equity in public resource allocation for education
* to create a knowledge base for education and focus attention on system inputs, outputs and outcomes
HEALTH
* To improve the efficiency of public financing for health services
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
EDUCATION
Outputs
* Block grant per student financing pilots completed in selected municipalities
* Governance and financial management systems in place for general education
* University of Kosovo governance and financial management system in place
* Capacity created to set standards and assess student performance
Outcomes
* financial mechanisms in place for both general and higher education which provide efficiency
incentives and allow quantitative monitoring of resource allocation on equity grounds
* availability of information with which to evaluate education system performance
* informed policy dialogue and creative re-establishment of education governance and financing
HEALTH
Outputs
* Health and Social Welfare strategy papers adopted
* Detailed design and implementation plan for new health financing system prepared and initiated
* a facility for the health insurance fund renovated and equipped, the staff trained, and activities
initiated
* Implementation plan for restructuring the health sector prepared and adopted and procurement
documents presented to donors
Outcomes
* a decrease in the proportion of public sector revenue that comes from donor financing by the end of
the project
* a decrease in public sector financing spent on specialist services
* a decrease in the proportion of practicing physicians who work in hospitals
2



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: N/A               Date of latest CAS discussion:
The proposed operation is consistent with the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (R99-178, dated
September 16, 1999) in ensuring efficiency of public sector spending and building effective, accountable
and efficient public institutions.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
EDUCATION
Overview of the Education Sector
Despite the remarkable efforts during the past nine years - particularly among teachers - to maintain a
functioning education "parallel" system under extremely difficult conditions, it is inevitable that the
quality of education delivered in the classroom has suffered. However, because of the lack of student
performance information with which to make comparisons (a problem even with the pre-1989 system), it
is impossible to say anything definitive about the cost of the past nine years in terms of learning
outcomes. Enrollment ratios, thought to be over 90% in primary prior to 1989, have almost certainly
declined substantially over the past decade, particularly among girls. But, due to internal migration and
re-settlement, precise figures remain unavailable.
In terms of provision of educational inputs (which say little about overall system performance), the past
nine years and the recent conflict have taken a serious negative toll. Education financing was available in
the parallel system at only 10-20 percent of pre-1989 financing levels. Few teachers, professors or
administrators -- with the important exception perhaps of those living abroad -- have benefited from any
organized professional skills upgrading. Even prior to 1989, pre-service teacher training lacked a
methodological focus and education administrators were not exposed to modern public sector
management skills. In addition, the system as a whole has been isolated for a decade from recent trends
and advancements in pedagogy, methodology and education administration and management. Basic
textbooks for primary and general secondary education were reported to have been generally available to
most students, financed through external contributions, but their pedagogical and physical quality is said
by teachers to be lacking, and many of these books were destroyed or lost during the recent conflict.
Primary          Secondary          Higher
Students/Pupils            289,567            75,169           18,000
Teachers/Professors         16,541             5,049             1,300
Other Personnel             3,600              915               N/A
Source: UNMIK
Current estimates by IJNMIK show a student to teacher ratio of 17.5/1 for primary education (within a
range of 15/1 to 18/1 across the five UNMIK-created administrative regions), a student to teacher ratio of
15/1 for secondary education, and 14/1 for higher education. These ratios would suggest that Kosovo is
supporting student to teacher ratios which are lower than the Western European average, particularly for
primary education, leading to significantly higher personnel costs. Likewise, the ratios of teaching to
non-teaching staff (just over 4/1 in primary and 5/1 in secondary) are slightly lower than the European
3



average. These broad averages could also be hiding serious over-crowding of facilities balanced by
under-utilization of other facilities across or even within municipalities. At the same time that teachers
are in relative surplus, shortages of teachers with certain skills, particularly language and computers, will
inevitably be a major issue. UNMIK estimates that Serb children remaining in Kosovo account for only
4.5% of total primary pupils, with all other ethnic groups (Turks, Bosniacs, Roma, other) accounting for
another 3% combined. Serbs are estimated to be about 7% of total secondary students, with other groups
accounting for only 2% of the secondary cohort. Nearly all Serbs and, to the extent their numbers are
large enough, other ethnic groups, are educated in separate schooling facilities. Few if any Serbs attend
the University of Pristina, and numbers for other ethnic groups are unavailable.
The physical condition of schools in Kosovo presents a serious constraint to re-starting the education
system. According to EC estimates, which continue to be updated, slightly more than half of the
approximately 1,000 primary school buildings are in need of repair. Roughly 30-40 percent of primary
schools will require light to medium repairs, while roughly 10 percent are seriously damaged. University
facilities have not sustained serious damage, but are reported to be in need of re-furnishing and re-
equipping. While about 10 percent of school facilities were largely or completely destroyed during the
recent conflict, the lack of maintenance during the past decade and the age of many schools (about 25
percent of school buildings are over 40 years old) are an equal if not greater cause of physical
deterioration in most schools. UNMIK has estimated that DEM 76 million (about $40 million) will be
required for reconstruction and equipping in 2000-2001, most of which has already been committed by
donors. UNICEF has taken the lead in coordinating the reconstruction effort.
In terms of what is currently being taught in the system, Kosovar authorities and UNMIK have decided to
use the existing curriculum that was in use under the "parallel" system for school year 1999-2000,
although there is consensus that this curriculum needs to be replaced as soon as possible with a more up-
to-date framework of subjects and performance standards. Likewise, a decision has been made to re-print
existing textbooks, at least for core primary and secondary subjects, for use during the 1999-2000 school
year, pending a curriculum and textbook review in the coming 1-2 years. Special donor funding has
already been mobilized for this initiative.
Institutional situation: In the latter half of 1999, the institutional situation in education was marked by
competing claims to authority and responsibility for creating a Ministry of Education between the former
government in exile and the KLA-backed provisional government. In response, a Joint Civil Committee
for Education (JCCE) was created under UNMIK's Education Department made up of four
representatives from the Albanian language system, two from the Serb language system and
representatives from UNESCO, KFOR and UNICEF. However, the JCCE preformed a consultative
function only and was not a successful mechanism for decision making in education.
Earlier efforts to coordinate and manage education activities at a central level in Kosovo have been
superseded by the formation of a joint administration in which UNMIK authorities will share power with
locally nominated officials. Co-Heads of the Education Department have been appointed and are in the
process of establishing a department which eventually is expected to evolve into the principal education
authority for a future Kosovo administration.
Within this context, UNMIK's Education Department has launched an initiative (DESK - Developing
Education in Kosovo) under which transitional working groups have been created to address
development issues in primary, secondary and higher education, as well as overall systemic and strategic
issues. Each group is composed of various local stakeholders (public/private, unions, administrators,
pedagogues, academics, etc) and international representatives. With support from external technical
assistance, these groups will study and report on various innovations and issues (including finance and
governance, system performance, quality assurance, early childhood development, etc.) and would be
expected to serve as a focal point for debate, knowledge accumulation and participatory consensus
4



building in the sector. A presentation of this proposal is included in UNMIK's concept paper, Developing
the Education System in Kosovo (October 17, 1999).
Development Policy
Priorities in education can be expressed in two broad categories: the need to restore a minimally
acceptable learning environment to children currently in schools and the need to define a new education
system and policies that will serve children in Kosovo for generations to come. There is a natural
tendency to put reconstruction needs ahead of systemic issues on the priority list, and this is well justified
when it comes to allocating investment programming where 90% or more of funding should be devoted to
emergency restoration of minimal schooling facilities. However, it would be a serious mistake -- which
would entail increasing costs in years to come -- to allow the focus on emergency reconstruction to crowd
out the equally urgent need for strategy and policy development in the short term. The education system
in Kosovo needs to begin a transition that has been underway in many of its central and eastern European
neighbors for the past 7-8 years. Education and political authorities in Kosovo and the donor conumunity
must not lose sight in the current emergency environment of the unique opportunity that is being
presented to build a modern and responsive educational system that is compatible with a new economic
environment and with European legislation, policies, governance and institutions, as well as content and
performance standards.
In view of the highly uncertain political and institutional situation and the long time isolation of Kosovo's
professional educators from external advancements in their profession, it is not realistic to expect
authorities in Kosovo to develop a detailed, realistic and appropriate education strategy or policies in the
short term. The development of a locally-prepared education strategy, which addresses the sector across
its component parts (levels, inputs, performance, etc) and in its economic and social context, should, in
fact, be seen as a medium term (2-3 year) objective. While comprehensive, locally-driven strategy and
policy development will take time to evolve, there are a number of key priorities and objectives that an
eventual education strategy for Kosovo would be expected to address.
Education Governance and Financing
The current unsettled situation in education presents an important opportunity to establish modern
mechanisms and incentives that will serve to enhance quality, efficiency, and equity in the system. As a
general western trend, the key to establishing an efficient distribution of responsibilities and functions in
education is twofold: first, to allocate to the center the authority for policy/strategy formulation and for
ensuring equity of access (redistribution to disadvantaged areas) and the quality and consistency of
educational programs; and, second, to ensure that lower levels are given the responsibility and authority
(including budget and expenditure authority) to implement programs flexibly and creatively within
established norms. In fact, the education system in the former Yugoslavia, in contrast to its central and
eastern European neighbors, was an early and interesting example of just such a division of authority and
responsibility in education. This tradition of decentralization in education was continued by the Kosovar
Albanians in the operation of their "parallel" education system over the past nine years as municipality
education authorities were given significant discretion for managing both locally-generated and centrally-
provided resources for education. This authority entailed mainly assigning and re-allocating personnel
(salaries were centrally established), but also involved working with informal cash and in-kind
contributions from parents.
Given western trends and local traditions for education decentralization, a priority for authorities in
Kosovo and the donor community should be to continue a policy of decentralization to ensure the
authority of municipal officials to manage the majority of resources for education. However, unlike in the
former Yugoslavia, where locally-generated revenue was kept at the municipal level to fund education,
authorities in Kosovo should consider various alternatives including a system of fiscal devolution for
5



education funding in which central revenue is devolved to local education authorities on an equitable, per
student basis.
In addition, a high priority should be given to helping authorities at all levels ensure the availability of
reliable administrative, financial and performance information, as a pre-requisite for beginning a
productive dialogue on education reform and for facilitating strategy and policy development. The
development of per student formulas and a focus (see section on curriculum and assessment below) on
measuring learning outcomes will go a long way toward helping to measure inputs and outcomes in the
system. Helping to create capacity for producing and using management information at the central,
municipality and school levels should be a priority for the governance reform strategy which should be
supported as a priority by donors.
Higher Education Governance and Finance
Unlike modern, integrated universities in Western Europe and North America, the University of Kosovo
operates as a loose association of faculties, each with a legally autonomous status and management
structure. This dispersal of authority in what should be a single institution has led to a redundancy of
programs, personnel, and facilities across faculties which diverts resources from improving the quality of
teaching and learning. The weakness of the university rectorate also hinders an effective prioritization of
programs in the face of a changing economic and social environment and allows autonomous faculties to
resist systemic reforms aimed at investing efficiency gains in improving the quality of programs. As the
university is re-established and new legislation is drafted over the coming months/years, authorities in
Kosovo should not miss the opportunity to make their university compatible with European standards in
university governance and management. Along with new legislation, there is a need for a strategy aimed
at developing academic and institutional accreditation within Europe in the medium term. Authorities
should consider establishing a representative university council or working group to discuss needed
reforms with donors and to begin the process of preparing new legislation and an institutional
development strategy.
Per student funding formulas for various programs should also be developed for higher education as a
way to instill transparency of funding and provide incentives for increased efficiency. The potential for a
gradual institution of fee charges for various high demand programs should also be closely examined as a
way to focus more resources on qualitative improvement, in combination with the development of student
loan schemes and fellowships targeted on need. Cost recovery should be re-instituted as soon as possible
-- nominal fees of around 70 DM per student were collected during the "parallel" system -- in terms of
requiring increased student contributions to previously subsidized dormitories, food and transport costs.
Curriculum and Assessments
There is an awareness among leading professional educators in Kosovo that educational programs at all
levels are characterized by a dense and ambitious body of knowledge to be learned, leaving little
flexibility to focus on thinking and learning skills or to deal with children with varying capabilities. In
order to make the education system responsive to changes in the skill needs of the labor market, reforms
will be needed not only in what is learned in school but in how it is learned. Rather than focusing on a
traditional redefinition of precise curriculum content and syllabi, course-by-course and level-by-level,
local authorities should take time to review recent innovations in western European education systems
which focus on defining learning objectives and performance standards in the context of a coherent
curriculum framework. Closely tied to this focus on performance standards is the need to develop a
capacity, currently non-existent in Kosovo, to measure student performance in a standardized manner.
The availability of student performance or "outcome" information helps ensure the accountability among
education authorities to the public they serve, and is key to allowing education authorities at all levels -
6



school, municipality, center - to identify problem areas and focus programs and resources on improving
student and school performance.
In keeping with recent trends in education, the authority for developing and monitoring a curriculum
framework and modern learning standards should be placed at the center, although, particularly in such a
small area as Kosovo, the process of change should be as consultative as possible. Agreement on an
institutional mechanism and process for beginning this fundamental effort should be a priority for the
comning year and donors should make every effort to expose leading stakeholders throughout the system
to technical and process innovations in neighboring countries and in Western Europe. It will obviously be
important to ensure maximum flexibility in any curriculum framework to accommodate the desire on the
part of minority ethnic groups to define and control their learning process at decentralized levels. As is
the hope in neighboring Bosnia and Herzegovina, part of the answer to ensuring standards in the context
of a non-cooperative environment across ethnic groups could be a focus on developing a student
assessment capacity, which could be carried out on an independent, professional basis.
Textbooks
The eventual development of a modern curriculum framework for Kosovo, together with changes in
information technology, will obviously determine the number and types of textbooks and other
educational materials that will be needed in the medium term. It goes without saying that the hundreds of
textbooks currently prescribed for the system will no longer be justified or sustainable once the structure
and orientation of programs have been reformed. The decision to use existing curricula and re-print
existing books for the beginning of the coming school year takes the pressure off the need to develop new
books that may or may not be appropriate for curriculum changes in the future. Given the myriad
priorities and urgent reform needs in education, decisions on privatizing textbook production and re-
organizing textbook selection and financing can be delayed until curriculum reform efforts are underway.
Teaching and Learning
Most teachers in Kosovo have been isolated from professional innovations and professional skills
upgrading over the past nine years. A further constraint in the system is that pre-service teacher training
faculties and academies in Kosovo and the former Yugoslavia did not traditionally emphasize child-
centered or inter-active teaching methodologies, nor the need to use student evaluation to improve their
effectiveness. There is, therefore, complete agreement among education authorities in Kosovo that top
priority in terms of having an immediate positive impact should be given to upgrading the teaching skills
of nearly all the estimated 24,000 primary school teachers and 4,500 secondary teachers currently serving
the system. Local authorities and donors should balance support between the need to redefine pre-service
teacher training curriculum and re-structure delivery mechanisms for in-service training - both medium to
long term objectives which should start soon - with the need to provide at least some remedial training to
existing teachers with a degree of urgency over the next year or two. NGOs and organizations such as
UNICEF and the local Open Society Institute should play a major role in helping to organize both
medium term teacher training reform and offering urgent skills training to teachers in the short term. A
number of interesting and successful pilot or experimental schools projects are ongoing throughout the
region (particularly in Macedonia, Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina), and these interventions could
offer a starting point for authorities in Kosovo to learn about innovations and opportunities.
Secondary TechnicallVocational Education and Adult Training
Approximately 70% of secondary students are estimated to be enrolled in specialized technical and
vocational programs throughout Kosovo. Degree courses are offered for such specialties as waiters,
cooks, shop assistants, nurses and tailors. However, due to the constraints of the "parallel" system and
the recent destruction of facilities and equipment and loss of books and materials, many specialized
schools will undoubtedly succeed in organizing only general core subjects and theory-based courses in the
7



coming school year. When operating normally, specialized technical and vocational programs are often
expensive to operate - due to low student/teacher ratios and equipment needs - and externally inefficient -
graduates are trained in narrow, occupational specializations for which there is currently questionable
labor market demand.
As currently designed, the secondary system in Kosovo is out of alignment with the emerging market
economy's need for broad-based skills, labor flexibility and continuous learning. It is crucially important
for donors not to rush into the re-establishment of the current secondary system until local authorities
have developed a strategy for secondary reform. Focus should then be put on the medium term objective
of developing new broad-based programs and on an extensive re-training program for the existing
secondary teaching force.
A reform of secondary technical/vocational education will also necessitate commensurate reforms in the
field of adult training and two year higher education technical/professional programs. The goals are to
develop a network of training suppliers (public university, private-for-profit, semi-public, NGOs, etc.), to
bring social and private sector partners into the governance of adult training, to complement government
funding with cost recovery, and to facilitate the availability of labor market information. In this context,
there is an urgent need to provide remedial training for specific skills such as business/enterprise
management and various technical and engineering skills needed to ensure an effective operation of
public sector resources and utilities.
HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE
Overview of the Health Sector
The health system in Kosovo was similar to other former Yugoslavia countries and regions: financed by
pay-roll and profit contributions to a health insurance fund (HIF), with public ownership of service
delivery including a tertiary hospital in Pristina, five other district houses, health houses (a form of
polyclinic), and small primary health care (PHC) clinics. Medical practice was and remains highly
specialized, with family medicine and nursing being poorly developed.
After 1989, HIF management and policy and regulation were centralized to Belgrade, with district office
functions in Pristina and four other districts of Kosovo. Albanians were dismissed from management and
senior medical positions. The HIF covered only around half of the Albanian population, many of whom
ceased to pay contributions and lost HIF coverage. Albanians set up a parallel system to provide PHC
services through the Mother Theresa Society (MTS); delivered parallel training of 700 doctors and 1200
nurses; and delivered services through private practice financed from user fees. In the official system in
the last ten years, there has been little investment in facilities, equipment, or staff development with
adverse effects on quality. Informal out-of-pocket payments have become a growing source of financing,
particularly for hospital procedures. During the conflict, many MTS and other rural PHC clinics were
damaged, though hospital and health houses sustained little damage. HIF's Pristina office was destroyed
by bombing.
In the seven months that have elapsed since the withdrawal of the Serb forces, Kosovo's health services
are being restored, though slowly. Some reconstruction and rehabilitation has taken place, supported
materially and financially by many NGOs and agencies, but many health facilities still struggle day to day
with essential utilities. Drug supplies have been maintained but long term security is yet to be assured.
More positively all hospitals and most health houses and ambulantas are now open and therapy of some
kind is now available for most conditions. There have been no major outbreaks of infectious disease. The
vast majority of health staff are now Albanian, raising issues of access and integration for Serb and other
8



minority groups. Another bone of contention has been the UTN stipend payments, with erratic distribution
and the perceived low levels causing unrest. Unconfirmed plans suggest the administration will attempt to
introduce salaries in early spring.
The UNMIK Department of Health and Social Welfare has been staffed with a small central secretariat
and five field offices consisting of one or two health officers. Low technical and administrative staffing
has limited UNMIK Health Department's ability both to coordinate and effectively regulate the
development of the health services. The structure of the Department has changed dramatically with the
appointment of a Kosovar co-head, in line with the central UNMIK development of the Joint Interim
Administrative Council (JIAC) linking the three main Albanian political parties, and, it is hoped in future
a Serb representative.
Development of a national health policy
The UNMIK interim health policy guidelines (commonly referred to as The Blue Book), drafted by a
UNMIK/WHO/local professional policy group and published in October, 1999, set out a blueprint for the
reform of the health service in the territory, based on a move to a primary-care driven system. Health
services are still free, but economic constraints both now and in the future mean policy makers are
starting to consider options for contributory financing including health insurance and co-payments.
While some organizations (NGOs, UN agencies, local structures) are arranging their activities with
attention to the reforms outlined in the Blue Book, others are disregarding it. It is therefore important that
UNMIK Department of Health and Social Welfare develops some form of enforceable authority to
restrain projects that damage or set back the goals of the policy.
Main Sectoral Issues
The Interim Policy Guidelines as well as the Bank's own assessment of the health situation in Kosovo
reveal the following health sector priorities.
Poor health indicators: Even before the crisis, Kosovo's health care statistics were among the poorest in
Europe on virtually every health indicator. For example, the country's estimated 51.2 infant deaths per
1000 live births is the highest in Europe. The country is in the period of transition where rates of
infectious diseases are still high but chronic, non-communicable diseases now pose the greatest burden.
While the problems are numerous, the recently approved policy document identifies the following targets
in order to improve the health situation: 1) reduce the neonatal and infant mortality and morbidity; 2)
protect young Kosovars from the negative effects of tobacco, alcohol, drugs, unwanted pregnancies and
sexually transmitted diseases; 3) reduce the burden of mental health problems, injuries and violence; 4)
improve the quality of health care at primary and secondary level through regular attention to health
outcomes; and 5) recognize and strengthen Kosovar capacity at all levels of the health system.
Over-centralized, over-specialized, inefficient health system: As in other parts of the former Yugoslavia
and most Central European countries, the health care system was, and still is, characterized by high
reliance on specialists, use of medicines and technology often without reference to evidence of
effectiveness and long average lengths of stay (12.5 days). General practitioners were not provided with,
or expected to possess adequate training for modem family medicine. Primary health care service
delivery was divided among different sub-specialties based on age, sex, disease type, and location, in a
fragmented and inefficient way. Post-secondary school nursing education was and remains unavailable
within Kosovo. Overall number of providers is not as much of a problem as geographic and technical
distribution.
9



Out-dated, dilapidated and damaged health infrastructure: During the conflict, Mother Theresa Society
facilities sustained the worst damage, with only 10-15 percent remaining operational, mainly in the cities.
The hospitals and most health houses are intact. Damage has occurred mainly in remote dispensaries and
small clinics. A preliminary EC/IMG damage assessment (July 1999) estimates costs of 4 million Euro
(US$3.8 million) for repairs of conflict damage, and provision of equipment to dispensaries and health
houses. The effects of the conflict added to underlying problems due to a period of ten or more years of
neglect, poor policy and weak management. There has been chronic under-investment in maintenance of
physical infrastructure and equipment, and in staff development. The general impression, in the absence
of thorough assessment, is that much of the equipment installed in the hospitals is obsolete, out of order
due to poor maintenance, unused due to lack of consumables, or under-utilized due to lack of personnel.
The Health Insurance Fund has estimated that almost 80 percent of equipment should be progressively
replaced.
Inadequately trained and poorly placed human resources: Many health professionals who worked in
Mother Theresa Society clinics have now abandoned this system to seek employment and specialist
training positions in hospitals. As a result, provision of health care for the poor and in rural areas is now
in decline. Since the conflict, most health institution managers and senior doctors, who were Serb
Kosovars, have left their posts. Kosovar Albanians who were expelled from positions after 1989 have
returned to the system, reclaiming their old jobs. Medical staff who graduated from the parallel system
also claim a right to positions in hospitals that would enable them to complete an "intern year" of
supervised practice, and then obtain registration.
The combined effect of these trends is that doctors have now moved from primary care to the hospitals,
hoping to work or train as specialists, over-burdening the hospitals and the system of specialist clinical
training, while primary health care facilities, particularly in remote areas, are deprived of staff. The
distribution of health care facilities and of health professionals across Kosovo was already inefficient and
inequitable, with a relative concentration in Pristine, alongside scarcity of primary health care facilities
and doctors in many rural areas. Large segments of the population, especially the rural poor, have limited
access to modern health services.
The level of clinical skills among health professionals is a concern. Kosovar Albanians educated in the
parallel system and those working in the Mother Theresa Society system or private sector have had little
access to facilities for updating knowledge of changes in medical technology and evidence of effective
practice for the past 10 years. There is no specialist training program in family medicine. Post-secondary
school nursing education is not available in Kosovo, though a small number have graduated from
programs in other countries. Some professions allied to medicine (such as physiotherapy) appear to be in
short supply.
Inadequate public sectorfinancing for health care. In the past, health expenditures were financed
principally from pay-roll tax contributions to the Health Insurance Fund. There were also limited patient
charges which covered part of the cost of some services (for prescription drugs, orthopedic appliances,
eyeglasses), with exemptions for some classes of patients (children, students, people over 65). Patients
have paid an increasing share of the costs of care by direct out-of-pocket payments to practitioners, either
through informal "under-the-table" payments to doctors, or through use of private practitioners and
private pharmacy. A survey in September 1999 found 55% of patients had spent money on health in the
two previous weeks, including an average of DM 19 on drugs and DM 4.5 on transportation.
Extrapolating the data would see the population spending around DM 149m a year. Public expenditure
on health amounted to 34 percent of GDP in 1989. This share of expenditure today, with a much lower
GDP and the loss of revenue redistributed from richer to poorer regions within FRY, would see Kosovo
spending of the order of $18-26 per capita a year-- enough to purchase a minimum package of care costed
for low-income countries. Kosovo currently enjoys a higher level of care. The health budget proposed by
WHO to maintain the existing system amounts to around US$42 per capita (in the range of 5.5-8.4
percent of GDP). Kosovo will therefore need to spend a higher share of GDP on health than in the past,
10



through higher contribution rates or higher patient charges, if it is to finance a package of public health
measures and essential clinical services of the sort proposed by WHO.
Policies to govern the distribution of health revenue to different districts and health care providers across
Kosovo, and the mechanisms for paying health care providers will need to be developed. Currently,
providers are reimbursed for the costs of inputs (salaries, pharmaceuticals, other supplies, capital), based
on approved plans for staff numbers, approved capital investment and so on. In the medium term,
mechanisms should be developed for paying providers for defined outputs (such as numbers of patients
registered with a primary health care clinic, numbers of hospital admissions for different conditions),
subject to a global limit on their budgets. Ideally, providers should also be given some incentives to
improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of their services. The former system for paying
providers tended to encourage inefficiency (for example, by encouraging long lengths of stay in the
hospital, and excessive numbers of doctor consultations) and should not be re-instituted.
Access and integration UNMIK is now pursuing a policy of 'co-existence' rather 'multi-ethnicity' when it
comes to essential services like health and education. This means a 'parallel' facilities can be set up if
relationships between ethnic communities are such that one group would have no access to health care.
WHO has been instrumental in encouraging Serb doctors to return to serve Serb villages. As a result
many minority enclaves now have access to primary health care services provided by staff of their own
ethnicity. Where this is not possible humanitarian organizations are serving patients via mobile clinics.
However, secure transportation for those living in more isolated settings, or to transport patients between
enclaves and regional hospitals, is more problematic. UNHCR have set up KFOR protected bus services
in some districts; in others there are local arrangements with KFOR. Some Serb patients still travel to
Serbia for hospital care because they believe they will not get good care from Albanian staff. There is
little evidence of mal-treatment of Serb patients in Albanian-dominated facilities.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
The Education and Health Project has a medium to long term focus and provides no financing for short
term emergency relief assistance and only very limited financing for reconstruction. The decision to limit
the commitment of Bank investment resources in this project for emergency relief and reconstruction is
justified for several reasons: (1) the Bank is making a significant contribution to emergency relief
assistance in the education and health sectors through its various budgetary support contributions and
through its Community Development Project; (2) the Bank's investment financing for education and
health under the Trust Fund for Kosovo is very limited compared to emergency assistance needs; (3) a
multitude of other donors and NGOs are committed to financing emergency assistance and reconstruction
aimed at facilitating short term service delivery in both education and health (although this assistance has
not materialized as quickly as hoped); and (4) the Bank's comparative advantage in education and health
is policy and strategy support and institution building, areas which are receiving short shrift in the
continuing crisis environment in Kosovo.
However, despite its focus on policy, strategy and institution building, the project is still justified on
emergency grounds. Following a decade of informal and ad hoc management of service delivery in
education and health, Kosovo is in the process of re-building its education and health systems and the
institutions that manage them. There is a window of opportunity during the coming months for donors to
have a positive impact on how these new systems and institutions will be structured and financed. If this
window of opportunity is missed, decisions justified on the grounds of convenience and the need for rapid
response will dictate policy directions and vested interests will inevitably impede mid-term course
changes. The key priority for the Bank will be not to replicate the old system, but to learn from and
experiment with new models that place emphasis on efficiency incentives and evaluating the quality of
service delivery. The project will focus on social sectors finance issues which touch all aspects of service
11



delivery and, thus, should serve as a vehicle for focusing on efficiency and quality issues, as well as on
broader issues of system governance and administration.
Kosovar and UNMIK authorities, who are understandably pre-occupied with short term emergency relief
measures and other pressing short term issues, have agreed that the best role for the Bank and its limited
investment funding is to maintain a focus on medium to long term objectives in these two key sectors.
The Bank will ensure adequate coordination and complementary with the initiative of other external
agencies. Given the central role of UNMIK in aid coordination for both education and health, close and
effective aid coordination in this relatively small area should be feasible.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will provide technical assistance and some material support to help re-build and re-structure
the governance, finance, and administration of the education and health systems in Kosovo.
at                                       q or                  Bank-nictie  an-    o
Design and Piloting of an Education Funding    Public Financial   0.80      16.2       0.80        18.0
System - assistance will be provided to    Management
design and pilot an education funding system
in which central revenues would be allocated
to municipalities and/or schools in a lump
sum based on a per student funding formula,
leaving spending priorities to be determined,
within norms, at the municipality/school
level. Support will be provided to design the
financing mechanism and carry out pilots in
3-5 municipalities to be identified. The
component will also finance development of
an initial statistical module of a management
information system for the UNMIK
Department of Education and the University
of Pristine, as well as software development
and management training.
Strengthening Governance and Institutional  Higher Education      0.50      10.1       0.50        11.3
Capacity of the University of Pristina -
assistance will be provided to help define and
prepare higher education legislation and
statues, and to develop a strong university
management structure and strategic planning
capacity in line with Western European
university management models. The
assistance will be provided as part of a co-
financing arrangement with one of several
donors currently supporting the university.
12



ic.dltive             Bank-        % Of
Component                        Sector          Cests      % oi    fi-an-in -  Bank.
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___   ,.JTotal  - (h   aJ g
Developing a Capacity to Define Standards  Other Education        0.44       8.9       0.44        9.9
and Assess Performance -- the project will
provide training and technical assistance to a
small group of professionals to be located in
the UNMIK Department of Education to
define educational standards within a modern
framework and assess student performance
against these standards.
Developing Education Governance and        Institutional          0.22      4.5        0.22        5.0
Management Structures - technical assistance    Development
will be provided to define and prepare
legislation for general education and develop
modern management structures within the
UNMIK Department of Education. This
assistance would support the ongoing work of
the DESK Education System Development
Committee.
Developing a health and social welfare     Health                 0.86      17.4       0.36         8.1
strategy - the project would provide technical
assistance to design the main elements of a
new health financing system (including
revenue, expenditure allocation, incentives
and guidelines for investment) agreed by local
stakeholders, UNMIK, and donors. The
project would look at both public and private
sources and uses of funds. A strategy would
also be prepared for social welfare and
pensions to ensure consistency in the recently
combined ministry. The component would
also finance a public information program on
health sector reform.
Strengthening the capacity of the Health   Institutional          1.30     26.3        1.30       29.3
Insurance Fund - a broad consensus has     Development
already been reached that the Health Insurance
Fund should be re-established and that the
functions of monitoring the collection of
revenues, contracting and provider payment
will be necessary regardless of the final design
of the system. The project would provide
technical assistance and training.
Funds are also available to rehabilitate and
equip the future site of the health insurance
fund.
13



Component~~~~~t  !X Sete                  Costs00    % of0  t;00inaodn    Bank.i0
Preparing an implementation plan for      Health                0.46       9.3       0.46       10.4
restructuring the health sector - the project
would provide technical assistance to develop
an implementation plan for restructuring of
the primary, secondary, and emergency
services based on the interim health policy
guidelines for Kosovo. The process would be
in close collaboration with key stakeholders
and beneficiaries. Packages of procurement
documents will be prepared to facilitate future
donor financing
Monitoring the impact of social sector reforms   Multi Sector   0.26       5.3       0.26        5.9
- the project will finance two national
household income and expenditure surveys as
well as social assessments and other
qualitative research.
Project Implementation                    Institutional         0.10       2.0       0.10        2.3
Development
L_______  __________      0.0
Total Project Costs                       4.94     100.0       4.44      100.0
Total Financing Required                        4.94     100.0       4.44      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project will be implemented over a period of three years. The United Nations Interim Administration
in Kosovo (UNMIK) will be the implementing agency for the Project with various departments of the
agency having a role in implementation based on their respective functions in the Administration.
One of the main objectives of the proposed Project would be to build the capacity of the Departments of
Education and Health and Social Welfare of UNMIK which are to become the Ministries of Education
and Health and Social Welfare of a future local administration in Kosovo. It is, therefore, clear that the
responsibility for implementing the Project from a professional and technical point of view should remain
within these departments. However, these departments have neither the capacity (in terms of available
human resources, skills, or time) nor the functional responsibility within the Interim Administration to
manage the funds with respect to financial management or procurement requirements. According to the
structure of UNMIK, only the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), which acts as the Ministry of Finance, has
the authority to open bank accounts, conduct and monitor financial transactions including the appointment
of an independent auditor, and to establish the regulatory framework for procurement and expenditure
transactions. It is, therefore, proposed that the CFA would be responsible for the financial management
aspects of the Grant administration, including the opening of a Special Account as a sub-account to their
existing commercial bank account; replenish the Special Account periodically; using their financial
accounting system; prepare the financial management reports required by the Bank; and have the use of
the Grant funds audited on an annual basis. An assessment of the financial capacity of the CFA has been
conducted. It is the conclusion that the existing system meets at least the minimum needs for proper grant
administration and reporting. The system will be programmed so that it is able to produce Project
Management Reports (PMRs) no later than June 30, 2001. The CFA will appoint the European Court of
Auditors to undertake periodic audits of the entire consolidated Kosovar budget. It is acceptable to the
Bank for the European Court of Auditors to audit the use of grant funds. With the exception of a larger
14



than normal Special Account to facilitate direct disbursements to suppliers by UNMIK, normal
disbursement procedures will be used. Once acceptable PMRs are produced, a move to PMR-based
disbursements could be considered. More details with respect to these arrangements are provided in
Annex 6.
A separate department, the Central Procurement Entity (CPE), will be responsible for carrying out all
procurement within UNMIK. It is proposed that the CPE would carry out the agreed procurement plan
according to agreed procedures on behalf of the Health and Education Departments. However, the
Departments would be made explicitly responsible for defining the terms of reference, determining short
lists, establishing evaluation committees, and contract management. Besides carrying out procurement
activities, the CPE would also have a role in advising the Departments on implementation matters and
reporting. In each of the departments, one individual will be nominated to fulfill a coordination function.
It was agreed that the CPE would designate one individual within its unit as having project procurement
as his or her priority job responsibility. If the CPE is not able to designate that person immediately, there
are Grant funds available within the Project Management Support Component for this purpose. There are
additional funds designated for the training of Kosovar staff of UNMIK in procurement management and,
specifically, procurement.
The two individuals nominated by the Health and Social Welfare and the Education Departments will be
jointly responsible for collecting all information for the purposes of monitoring and reporting on the
progress of the project to the Bank and other authorities.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The Departments of Health and Social Welfare and of Education will be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation. Each will be responsible for their respective indicators. They will collaborate and act
together to field the evaluations and surveys which will conducted for the purpose of collecting data and
feedback. The funds for these specific tools for monitoring and evaluation are provided in Component C.
Progress reports including this information should be produced semi-annually (i.e. due February 15 for
the period covering July 1 - December 31 and August 15 for the period covering January 1 - June 30).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Larger Education and Health Reconstruction and/or Development Projects - Larger projects were
rejected for numerous reasons: (1) trust fund financing for Kosovo is limited and must be allocated across
a number of priority sectors and activities, (2) physical war-related damage in Kosovo is limited
compared to Bosnia, many other donors are providing timely re-construction support, and there is no
pressing need for the Bank to allocate its limited funding for non-development oriented goals, (3) there is
a limited window of opportunity for having influence in Kosovo on key policy, governance and financing
issues, and responding quickly with a smaller project focused on key systemic issues is thought to be a
better strategy than taking time to develop a more ambitious development project, (4) there is no formal
government in Kosovo with which to define broader development priorities, (5) implementation capacity
is limited both within UNMIK and within the Kosovar community, and (6) no other major donor is
focused on system-wide reform issues, and the Bank has a comparative advantage in this area.
15



Direct Support for Improving the Quality of Education and Health Inputs and Service Delivery:
* Education - given limited resources and the Bank's and other donors' comparative advantages, direct
support will not be provided under this first project for developing educational inputs such as
curriculum, education materials, textbooks and teacher training. Experience in Bosnia has shown the
importance of progress on education governance and finance issues as a pre-requisite to improving
the quality of education inputs in a post-conflict environment. In addition, a number of other
donors/NGOs, including UNICEF, the Soros Foundation and bilaterals, are expected to be active in
these areas working directly with school authorities.
* Health - Most major donors have agreed to follow the Interim Health Policy Guidelines for Kosova
and Six Month Action Plan that was approved by UNMIK. Agreement was reached early on that
WHO would take the leadership on the health service delivery side with numerous other donors and
NGOs contributing and that the Bank's primary role would be to provide intellectual leadership and
financing for health care financing reform.
Secondary Education and Adult Training Reform: as in other countries of the region, the lead donor in
this field is expected to be the European Union through its agency the European Training foundation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Bank-financed                                              Implementation    Development
N/A                                                         Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Other Development agencies
Local capacity building     UNMIK DESK Initiative
Physical Reconstruction     Multiple agencies, bilaterals and
NGOs
University Reform           European Rector's Association
Direct provision of health care    Multiple agencies and NGOs,
services                    Including Mother Theresa
Society (MTS)
Human resource development,   WHO, ICRC, International Mercy
credentialing in the health sector  Corps, DFID, USAID, bilaterals
Management training for health   EU
care providers
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A number of lessons have been applied in the design of this project in the context of the Bank's
experience in Bosnia:
* there is a relatively brief window of opportunity during which donors and international experts can
have a significant impact on re-structuring systems and re-formulating policy before systems and
institutions become entrenched and resistant to change.
16



* a strong emphasis should be put on aid coordination to ensure complementary in donor initiatives and
a priority focus in view of limited implementation and policy development capacity in Kosovo.
* development support should be conditioned on policy and structural changes aimed at providing
efficiency incentives and ensuring the long term sustainability of effective institutions and programs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In education, cooperation among local partisan interests in the context of the UNMIK DESK initiative is
an indication of commitment to working with international support and technical assistance. The DESK
secretariat is, itself, committed in its mandate to re-structuring the education system along the lines of
successful western governance and finance models. The projects aimed to promote ownership within the
new joint UNMIK Department of Education, as well as at the municipal level through pilot initiatives.
The objectives and activities of the health component of the project are based on the Interim Health
Policy Guidelines which were prepared by a working group comprising representatives of several
different stakeholders (see discussion on participatory approach). The HIF has, on its own initiative,
begun to prepare a five year action plan as well as draft legislation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has a comparative advantage in assisting systemic reform and re-structuring, and significant
experience in this area in both education and health throughout central and eastern Europe over the past 7-
8 years. The Bank, and the ECA region in general, has also developed significant experience with
promoting change and reconciliation in post conflict environments.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 7)
1. Economic:
This long term-focused and technical assistance-oriented project was felt to be the best economic
investment the Bank could make in both the education and health sectors in view of the Bank's own
comparative advantage and the focus of other donors on emergency service provision and physical
reconstruction. While other donors and NGOs are focusing on restoring service provision in the short
term, the Bank is focusing on the need to use limited available resources more efficiently and equitably
and setting the stage for medium to long term sustainability. This early focus on efficiency, equity and
sustainability should serve to increase the economic returns and effectiveness of all investments and
recurrent costs contributions to Kosovo's health and education systems.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
The objective of the project is, in fact, to ensure the financial sustainability of the health and education
sectors in Kosovo and thus the project will address financial issues directly during project
implementation.
Fiscal Impact:
The project should have minor fiscal impact. Govemment financing of recurrent costs associated with the
HIF would be no more than if the reconstruction of the building were not included in the project since the
Department of Health and Social Welfare would continue to function. The project's focus on efficiency
17



of public resource use should contribute to efficiency gains which would, however, need to be retained by
the education and health sectors as service provision in both sectors recovers over time.
3. Technical:
N/A
4. Institutional:
Education: This education component of the project would be implemented by UNMIK (both the CFA
and the Department of Education) and the University of Pristina, as well as 3-5 pilot municipalities.
UNMIK: The relationship of the UNMIK Department of Education staff with Kosovars in the still
ongoing parallel education system is less than constructive owing to a continuing power struggle over
who really controls the system and has authority to hire, fire and transfer staff. It is unclear how the goal
of including department Co-Heads and Kosovar staff in the UNMIK administration will evolve in this
environment. But, this relationship must be identified as a major project risk. The UNMIK Department
of Education has produced a well-conceived DESK (Developing the Education Sector in Kosovo)
strategy which involves the organization of working groups of stakeholders for system development and
the three main levels of education (pre-primary and primary, secondary and higher). But its
implementation has been slow due to difficult procedural arrangements and lack of technical capacity in
UNMIK to drive the process. Financing under this project is partially designed to help jump-start this
process.
University of Pristina: Like most universities in central and eastern Europe, the University of Pristina
operates as a loose collection of independent faculties with little cooperation or coordination academically
or in terms of management. Kosovar academics are, however, keen to undertake both governance and
academically-oriented reforms, having little allegiance to the governance system of the former
Yugoslavia. UNMIK has appointed a university administrator who took up residence in March.
Prospects for reform and ownership of reforms at the university are good. However, the low UNMIK
budget salaries offered to professors are a serious impediment to convincing talented academics to stay
with the university in view of the high salaries in the "donor sector".
Municipalities: six municipalities have been assessed for their capacity to manage education funding.
The results showed extreme disparities with several areas being very well-organized and professional and
several areas being in total disarray for both political and technical reasons. Pilots in the municipalities
will focus on municipalities which demonstrate prior competency and will include significant capacity
building support.
The education components of this project would enable UNMIK to address, within the DESK initiative,
the following issues/priorities:
* Developing and piloting an education financing system that will devolve control of education funding
on a per student block grant basis to municipalities and schools.
* Policy advice and training support to the System Design Committee of DESK focusing on general
and higher education governance and institutional development assistance (including development of
information systems in the municipalities and the university).
18



* Developing a capacity to define modem education standards and assess performance in the system
against those standards.
Health: This component of the project would engage primarily three institutions: UNMIK (both the
Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) and the Department of Health and Social Welfare), WHO, and the Health
Insurance Fund of Kosovo.
The Department of Health is only recently merged with the Department of Social Welfare. The
Department is jointly run by an UNMIK and Kosovar appointed co-heads under the newly initiated JIAC
agreement. Kosovar counterparts will be recruited for all VNMIK staff pending availability of space.
This will facilitate transfer of the eventual administration of the Department to Kosovars. To facilitate
implementation and to help with training in the new Department, the project would finance one of the
Department's key positions - health financing manager.
WHO has been working in Kosovo for more than six months and is well established, represented, and
respected throughout the region. The Kosovo Interim Health Policy (more commonly known as The Blue
Book) was developed by WHO health systems specialists and additional stakeholders, both local and
international. Preparation of this project's health component has involved close collaboration with WHO,
who seems to be responsive and innovative in their approaches to immediate and anticipated health
financing and resource planning needs in Kosovo. Cooperation with WHO would be essential for a
successful project.
The capacity of both UNMIK and WHO to implement the Blue Book policy is limited by lack of
decision-making authority and/or funds. There seems to be a much-needed role for the Bank to
encourage and facilitate the Policy's implementation by these institutions, one administrative, the other
technical. The health components of this project would enable UNMIK and WHO to move forward with
the Policy and to strategize about the fiscal plans for the entire system.
Building the capacity of the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) would be the primary institutional focus of the
health component. In the 1980s, the HIF offered health insurance to all government employees in Kosovo
(about 400,000) and to private workers whose payroll taxes contributed to the system. After 1989, the
HIF quickly disintegrated in capacity although the administrative structure remained somewhat intact.
The human resources of the HF are extensive. Currently, there are more than 220 employees in the
region-wide employment records of the H1F. They are located in Pristina headquarters and in regional
offices. The top management is highly experienced, qualified, and motivated to resurrect Fund activities.
We believe that the human capacity of the HIF could be easily and quickly mobilized if it were necessary.
5. Social:
An anthropologist participated on the project preparation team and a preliminary social assessment was
completed during preparation, with on-going assessments to continue during project implementation. The
project will, of course, build on the enormous amount of social research currently underway by many
other donors, including the Bank.
The main issues are those concerning minorities and ethnicity. In reconstruction and medium- and long-
term planning efforts of every sector in Kosovo, including health and education, an attempt is being made
to include minorities, particularly Serbs, as partners and stakeholders. The components of this project are
designed to address the needs of all Kosovars, regardless of ethnic origin. In both education and health,
the proposed financing and evaluation systems would be general and regional in scope, designed to
proportionally include minority populations.
19



Issues that relate specifically to the proposed project mostly concern the potential consequences of human
resources reform in the health sector. While there do not appear to be excess staff in the health sector,
they do appear to be poorly distributed - both geographically and in terms of skill. This could require
significant uprooting for the staff and their families if required to move or retrain. Incentives are already
being put in place to encourage currently practicing doctors to retrain as primary care doctors. The
project will monitor these issues closely as they not only impact the providers of services, but the entire
success of the project.
Participatory Approach:
The project was prepared in consultation with other major partners in education including UNICEF, the
Soros Foundation, the Council of Europe, multiple bi-laterals and the EU. The Bank has expressively
attempted to complement the short term emergency focus of nearly all other donors by focusing on long
term strategic and institutional development objectives that tend to be given short shrift in the current
crisis environment.
The health component of the project would build on already-established partnerships and professional
collaborations among key stakeholders in Kosovo health care. Information already collected by
organizations currently working on the ground in the region have informed the design of this project. For
example, UNFPA's demographic survey of the region and Mercy Corps International's health
expenditures survey lay the ground work for understanding the role of the Health Insurance Fund in
Kosovo.
The Bank consulted in formal and informal settings with a range of project beneficiaries and stakeholders.
These included patients and health care providers in peri-urban ambulantas away from Pristina, patients
and providers at the central Pristina Hospital, administrators and service providers at the large Pristina
outpatient clinic including the mental health clinic, professors/lecturers at the Medical University, WHO
regional administration staff (in Pristina and in Prizren), consultants engaged in health employee
registration and primary care training module development, members of the Kosovo Medical Association,
European Union intelligence sources, and French humanitarian aid officials.
The Bank worked on the project design in collaboration with donors, including UNESCO, DFID, WHO,
and the EU. The project plans were also shared with several NGOs, particularly Mercy Corps
International whose research capacity is of particular interest for this project. Additionally, the Bank was
able to leverage funds from other donors for other health activities that were not included in the scope of
this proposed project.
Continued participation during implementation of the project is an important aspect of the component.
While the Interim Health Policy was developed last fall, it was difficult at that time to spend the necessary
time collaborating with stakeholders. Similarly, numerous health planning documents exist already in
Kosovo - yet few are supported - even known - by the people providing the services that are being
planned. This project, by taking a longer term approach, would move from consultation to collaboration.
Key collaborators would include health care providers, academics, the Institute of Public Health, political
leaders.
20



6. Safeguard Policies:
6.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         Yes         No X
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                 Yes         No X
Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                  Yes         No X
Pest Management (QP 4.09)                                    Yes         No X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                Yes         No X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 Yes         No X
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                           Yes         No X
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                            Yes         No X
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.S0. GP 7.50)  Yes        No X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)       Yes         No X
6.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of education and health programs in Kosovo in the short to medium term depends on
the timeliness of economic recovery and a concurrent increase in public revenues. The focus of this
project on promoting efficiency incentives in both education and health should make a significant
contribution to accelerating the sustainability of education and health programs. Substantial private
conntributions are expected to be made for health at all levels in the medium term. In education, limited
private contributions will be initiated at the higher eduction level, in terms of both cost recovery for
student services and enrollment fees.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
-___________________________ _ ::R ating
From Outputs to Objective
Adequate recurrent funding available  S      The pilots cannot be successfully implemented
to undertake the education pilots            without adequate recurrent funding being made
available by the international community. The
Bank has contributed budgetary support to
UNMIK through two operations. UNMIK will
be expected to give these pilots priority within
available funding under the consolidated budget,
which should help mitigate the risk of funding
shortfalls disrupting the pilots.
Legal status of university resolved  M       Decision making and spending powers
previously assigned to faulty deans will have to
be re-assigned to a central university Rector's
office. Comrnitment seems high for such a
21



Risk        Risk            ~~~RiskjMWnmizatnMesr
Rati
move. The formal legal status of the University
of Pristina vis-a-vis the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia remains to be defined, but should not
impact negatively on project implementation.
Cooperation among factions; capacity  H     Dialogue and cooperation on a professional level
for policy dialogue among                   between Kosovars is expected to be feasible.
counterparts; cooperation between           The relationship between the Kosovars who
Kosovars and the UNMIK                      managed the parallel education system and the
administration                              new co-chaired UNMIK administration is
evolving and presents a high risk for the project
in education. The project itself should help
minimize this risk by providing financing and
incentives that reward Kosovars with
professional expertise and advance through
cooperation with UNMIK.
The HIF will play a key role in the  N      Given the past role of the HIF and the agreement
future public sector health financing       reached in the preparation of the Interim
system                                      Guidelines, it is most likely that an HIF-like
institution will be required in whatever system is
finally adopted.
Health care providers agree to the   S      The plan will be prepared jointly with Kosovar
proposed restructuring plan                 counterparts. Experience from other countries
has shown that this risk can be minimized if the
alternatives proposed by health care providers
are included in scenarios under consideration
and final decisions based on consensus from all
stakeholders.
Authorities cooperate to develop     H      Cooperation within the new Interim
central level functions among               Administration presents a serious project risk, as
Kosovars and between Kosovars and           does the ability of the international community
the UNMIK administration                    to resolve legal and political issues related to
Kosovo's relationship with the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia. The project is aimed at, in part,
providing resources to help ensure the success of
the new joint administration. Project resources
will also be used to help sort out legal issues,
particularly in terms of new general and higher
education legislation for Kosovo. The uncertain
legal status of Kosovo remains a significant
project risk.
From Components to Outputs
All: components dependent on         S      A major focus will be given to sorting out
UNMIK support and establishment of          implementation responsibilities with UNMIK.
implementation mechanisms for               Relations between Bank staff and UNMIK
health and education to handle              personnel (from WHO, UNESCO and UNICEF)
22



Risk                     Risk              Risk Mhaimization Measure
.                    .      Et~~~~~~ating
procurement, disbursements and                   are good and productive. The cooperation of
financial accounting under UTNMIK                Kosovars in the co-chaired UNMIK
administration, and the role of those who are not
part of the joint adrninistration, will present a
major risk to sustainability. However, as
described above, the project itself provides an
incentive for cooperation with UNMIK on policy
and technical issues.
Overall Risk Rating                      H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
23



Possible Controversial Aspects:
The Project will assist authorities in Kosovo to draft legislation pertaining to the education and health
sectors. The Bank will work closely with UNMIK to ensure that the proposed legislation is compatible
with the overall legislative framework for Kosovo.
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D  1. a)  The engiineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation
A  1. b)  Not applicable
| 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation; and a framework has been established for
agreement on standard bidding documents that will be used for ongoing procurement
Throughout the life of the grant.
z 3. The Grant's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
Satisfactory quality
D  4.  The following items are lacking and are discussed under main conditions (Section F).
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
F   1.  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0  2.  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for appro al.t
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
a~s A. Steven                    Annette Dixon                   Poortman Christiaan J.
Team Le    Edation                Sector Director                 Country Director
Laura Rose,
Team Leader, Health
24



Annex 1: Project Design Sununary
KOSOVO: Education and Health Project
Link to good practice examples
HiermrLhy of Objectives Kev Performance Indicators  Monitoring & Evaluation   (ritical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS    Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports: (from Goal to Bank
Goal:                                                                Mission)
Sustainable funding    New financial mechanisms  Donor Report        Economic recovery,
for social sector    in education and health that                    public revenue growth
programs             promote efficiency and
targeting
Project Development  Outcome / Impact Indicators:   Project reports:  (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Improved efficiency    Mechanisms such as     Evaluation reports on  Recurrent funding is
and equity in public    capitation budgeting,  pilot program         available to allow
resource allocation for  informations systems and                    functioning of the
education            performance assessment                          pilots in the
instruments in place for both                   municipalities
general and higher
education which provide
efficiency incentives and
allow quantitative
monitoring of resource
allocation on equity grounds
A knowledge base     Availability of information   Student assessment on a  Authorities cooperate
created for education   on system performance  sampling basis        to develop central level
and focused attention  through standardized                          functions among
on system inputs,    assessment               Legislation/statutes   Kosovars and between
outputs and outcomes                          available              Kosovars and the
Legislation/Legal statutes in                   UNMIK administration
place for general and higher
education
Improve efficiency of  Decrease in proportion of   National Health   Health care financing
public financing for    public sector revenue that   Accounts prepared as    strategy is adopted and
health services      comes from donor financing part of project      implemented
Decrease in public sector    Official government
financing spent on specialist reports           Health expenditures
services                                        remain a priority for
National Household     government financing
Decrease in proportion of   Health Expenditure
physicians working in    Survey undertaken as    Reforms in primary
hospitals                part of project        health care proceed
25



ierhyo O ctve   M              -erfrmnce  ditrs                  ,    u    io  Cricl
Output from each       Output Indicators:           Project reports:          (from Outputs to
component:                                                                    Objective)
Block grants to        Pilots completed and results    Pilot evaluation reports  Adequate recurrent
municipalities piloted  evaluated; mechanism                                  funding available to
extended to other                                     undertake pilots
municipalities
Institutional capacity of   Legal status shifts from  Strategic Plan          Legal status of University
the University of Pristina  faculties to the University; new                  of Pristina resolved
strengthened           financial management structure
Capacity to assess and    Sampling assessments      Assessment results        None
monitor student        available for math and literacy
performance developed   at select grades
Education legislation and  Legislation, study tours, policy  Legislation/various policy   Cooperation among
financing policy       decisions                    papers/guidelines        factions; capacity for
developed                                                                     policy dialogue among
counterparts
Health and Social      Health and Social Welfare    Strategy paper            Cooperation among
Welfare Strategy       strategy paper adopted                                 factions; capacity for
developed                                                                     policy dialogue among
Detailed design and                                   counterparts
implementation plan for new
health financing system
prepared and initiated
Capacity of the Health    HIF facility renovated and  Hand-over report of     The HIF, or at least its
Insurance Fund         equipped, staffed trained, and   contractors           staff, will continue to
strengthened           activities initiated                                   play a key role in the
Project supervision reports  public health financing
system, regardless of the
ultimate design of the
system adopted under the
financing plan
Restructuring plan     Restructuring implementation   Minutes from meetings   Health providers-will
prepared in collaboration  plan prepared and adopted  with stakeholders       agree to the plan
with all stakeholders,
particularly Kosovar   Procurement documents        Restructuring plan
health care providers and  presented to donors
communities, and                                    Procurement Packages
packaged with detailed
procurement documents.
Impact of social sector    2 region-wide household  Research reports          Social sector reforms will
reforms monitored over   surveys on income and                                be implemented
the life of the project  expenditures conducted
Survey techniques will be
On-going social assessments                           able to produce reliable
conducted                                             data
26



Hierarhly of Objectives. e Performance Indicators  Monitori  & Evaluation   Critchalssnti.
Project Implementation   Project disbursed and    Bi-annual progress reports   UNMIK support for
Support                procedures and guidelines                           implementation
followed
Project Components /   Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:        component)                                           Outputs)
1. EDUCATION                                                                All: components
dependent on UNMIK
support and establishment
of implementation
Piloting block grants to   $800,000                                         mechanisms for health
municipalities and                                                          and education to handle
strengthening financial                                                     procurement,
management                                                                  disbursements and
financial accounting
under UNMIK
Strengthening          $500,000
governance and
institutional capacity of
the University of Pristina
Developing a capacity to  $440,000
set standards and assess
student performance
Developing education    $210,000
governance and financing
policy
2. HEALTH AND
SOCIAL WELFARE
2.1 Developing a
strategy for financing
health and social welfare
2.1.1 Designing the    $500,000
comprehensive health
financing system
2.1.2 Developing the   $275,000
social welfare strategy
2.1.3 Implementing a    $80,000
communications program
on health sector reform
2.2 Strengthening
capacity of the Health    $1,300,000
Insurance Fund
27



2.3 Preparing an        $460,000
implementation plan for
restructuring the health
sector
3. MONITORING           $260,000
AND EVALUATION
4. PROJECT              $100,000
MANAGEMENT
SUPPORT
28



Annex 2: Project Description
KOSOVO: Education and Health Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.95 million
1. Education
The education components of the project are aimed at two broad objectives: (1) to improve efficiency and
equity in public resource allocation for education, and (2) to create a knowledge base for education and
focus attention on system inputs, outputs and outcomes. These objectives will be pursued through
interventions aimed at (a) developing an education funding system that will focus attention on and
provide incentives for qualitative improvements, efficiency and equity in the education system,
(b) developing an EU-compatible governance and legal framework for education at all levels, and
(c) developing capacity within the UNMIK Education Department and at the University of Pristina to
produce and use information on quality and system performance. These objectives will support an
education governance framework - increasingly common in OECD countries - in which education
funding and inputs are controlled at local levels (municipalities and schools) and the role of central
authorities is focused on standard setting, evaluation, information and quality promotion. This framework
is consistent with the decentralized tradition of education in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and in the
former parallel system.
Sub-Component 1.1: Developing Education Funding and Management Systems ($800000)
This sub-component provides support for two activities: (1) assisting the policy design, implementation
planning and training of a comprehensive decentralized system of education funding; and (2) assisting the
development of appropriate management systems and related software aimed at capturing essential school
data and information and building an information culture.
(1) Developing an Education Financing System.
The project will provide support to develop and pilot a resourcing system that will devolve control of
education funding on a per student block grant basis to municipalities and schools. The annual education
budgets developed by UNMIK are expected to be developed and approved within this overall strategy.
The project would also build capacity in this and other components to plan and govern the education
financing system. An initial block grant funding proposal has been developed, but remains to be
negotiated during implementation within the UNMIK administration and with interested and competent
municipalities, to be identified, where the system will be piloted. A modified version of a block grant
funding system was used successfully during 1999 to allocate non-salary spending for education to
municipalities. Key issues to be resolved for the pilots will be the selection of qualified municipalities
(final selection to be made by UNMIK based on assessments currently being carried out), the inclusion of
salary funding in the block grants, the role of municipality officials vis-a-vis school directors in setting
spending priorities, and the assignment of authority for teacher hiring and re-assignment (see also
governance support below).
The project will finance technical assistance to assist system design (school/municipality/center), with
extensive participation of stakeholders at the municipal level and at the center, and to provide training to
both the Education Department of the UNMIK administration and to municipal authorities in the pilot.
Funding will also be included in the contract to develop a financial management system for the University
29



of Pristina. Limited equipment and accounting software will be provided at the municipality level and for
the university. Terms of reference for the technical assistance were finalized with UNMIK at appraisal.
(2) Developing management systems and appropriate information management software.
The project will provide support to help identify essential education sector data information that needs to
be made available and to define the extent of analysis required in order to permit effective policy and
implementation decision making at the central, regional and school levels. These data bases will form the
basis of a future compulsory sector Education Management Information System.
Support will be provided in the following areas:
General Education (1) developing a conceptual design for an Education Management Information System
based on an analysis of stakeholder needs and designing, testing and distribution of simple software
designed to allow the collection and analysis of essential data in modular form either by direct input or
export from existing data bases; (2) assisting regional offices with the set up of computer hardware and
software installation for the information databases; and (3) providing comprehensive training for
Education Department staff (6 -10 people) municipal staff, (30 offices, one person each) and selected
personnel associated with pilot projects (approximately 15) in the following fields: (i) general information
management principles and techniques, (ii) education data entry, analysis and report writing, and (iii) data
base maintenance.
Higher Education: (1) developing a plan for extending the capabilities of faculty systems at the University
of Kosovo into a University Management Information System which will provide the basis for effective
decision making and policy planning both at the University and Department of Education levels; (2)
developing, testing and installing of software to meet the needs of a university based IMS; and (3)
providing comprehensive training for staff of the Rector's Office and selected Department of Education
personnel associated with higher education (approximately 15) in the following aspects (i) general
information management principles and techniques, (ii) education data analysis, trend identification and
forecasting, and (iii) the role of and IMS in effective strategic planning.
Sub-Component 1.2: Strengthening Governance and Institutional Capacity of the University of Pristina
($500.000)
The project will provide technical assistance and training to the UNMIK Department of Education and the
University of Pristina aimed at achievement of the following objectives. Terms of reference were
finalized with UNMIK and representatives of the University of Pristina Rector's office during project
appraisal.
* Governance and Legislation: technical support would help establish an appropriate legal basis for
the University which provides both a mandate for the University to function under current UNMIK
administrative arrangements and an action plan to transfer this temporary legal status into formal
legislation once a Parliament is elected. Key issues to be addressed will include: (1) an appropriate
governance structure with a definition of autonomy and a definition of the relationship between
University leadership and future Government structures; (2) a charter defining a mission, the terms
under which the faculties are integrated into a coherent university system and other organizational
principles; (3) elaborated terms of governance, regulations and procedures including admission,
studies and degree issuance, students'and teachers'rights and responsibilities; and (4) definitions of
funding and financing, including the main procedures for public funding, the terms of using non-
public resources, and other financial responsibilities.
30



*  Strategic Planning Capacity: technical support will be provided to conduct an assessment of the
university's strategic planning capacity. Based on the assessment, support will be provided to design
and deliver a training program to key leadership, including the Rector, deputies, Senate members,
Deans and staff/faculty members. The overall number of trainees should be around 25. Technical
support will also work together with a key group of university leaders in a workshop format to
develop a framework of an Institutional Development Plan (IDP), as well as procedures to review,
evaluate and adjust the IDP. The production of an IDP will be an expected output of the project at the
end of the three year project.
*  Management Capacity: The above strategy will require both a detailed plan of functional
implementation and sustained management capabilities to carry out subsequent activities and make
adequate decisions in conformity with the strategy. The project will support external training and
local workshops facilitated by technical assistance for approximately 50 staff of the university in the
following key areas: (1) the establishment of financial and personnel management systems (2) the
establishment of a transparent enrollment system; (3) the planning and implementation of adequate
and effective staff/personnel policy and procedures; (4) the review, re-design and implementation of a
degree-system with the definition of requirements for Bachelor, Master and Doctoral programs, as
well as professional qualifications; (5) the review, re-design and implementation of coherent study
and teaching programs based on credits and credit-transfers compatible with European standards; and
(6) the design of a framework of an EMIS system in synergy with the leadership and management
structure, as well as to the overall strategy (note technical support for this key input is provided in
component 1.1 above).
Sub-Component 1.3: Developing a Capacity to Define Standards and Assess Performance ($440,000)
The project will finance technical assistance and training aimed at developing a capacity to define moderrn
education standards and assess performance in the system against those standards. The assistance will
help, over two years, to develop a framework and procedures for standards development and provide both
external and local training opportunities to local working groups to be formed in the context of the DESK
initiative. Eventually the beneficiaries of training would be expected to be hired as local staff of a
standards and assessment unit in the Joint administration or as part of a re-constituted pedagogical
institute for Kosovo.
The first task will be to identify together with staff of the UNMIK Department of Education a core group
of Kosovar educators with the background and standing to lead efforts to improve the quality of education
through setting and maintaining standards. Support will be provided to design and implement a program
of external and internal training aimed at updating and strengthening skills. Following initial training,
trainees will be assisted to (1) develop and pilot standards-based national assessment of student learning
in schools; (2) develop materials and in-service training seminars to help teachers to evaluate their
students' progress in the classroom; and (3) design and implement a professional and public information
strategy, aimed at improving public knowledge about the quality of schooling in Kosovo and laying the
groundwork for European comparability. Terms of reference for technical assistance and training were
finalized together with UNMIK at appraisal.
Sub-Component 1.4: Developing Education Governance and Management Structures ($210.000)
The project will finance policy advice, institutional development support and training to support the
System Design Committee of UNMIK's DESK (Developing and Education System for Kosovo) initiative.
Technical assistance will facilitate the dialogue between stakeholders on the Committee and recommend
policy options and draft legislation for general education. Limited equipment and small refurbishment
will also be financed for establishment of the UNMIK Education Department. Detailed terms of
reference for this support were finalized with UNMIK at appraisal.
31



Specific support will focus on two key areas:
(1) Institutional Development: technical assistance will help design the Education Department of the
joint UNMIK administration. This would include the definition of roles and relationships with other
governmental agencies and municipal authorities in a system that is expected to retain a large degree of
decentralization and deconcentration of financial authority. A draft organizational structure for the new
department will be developed, including recommendations for developing a capacity for educational
planning and finance, and a capacity for monitoring and evaluation. Assistance will also be provided to
help establish management tools such as position descriptions, procedures and annual work programs.
(2) Preparation of Legislation: technical assistance will help comment on existing draft legislation or, as
needed, assist in the preparation of legislation in the context of the newly defined and evolving
governance structures and roles. Examples of education legislation from Western Europe will be used
extensively to ensure the compatibility of the legal environment for education in Kosovo with that of the
European Union.
Project Component 2 - US$2.60 million
2. Health and Social Welfare
The objective of this component is to improve the efficiency and equity of public financing for health
services in Kosovo. Most of the emphasis of the component is on the health sector, with more detailed
implementation plans for social welfare are expected to be developed in a future project.
Sub-Component 2.1: Developing Health and Social Welfare Strategy ($855,000)
There will be three main activities financed under this component. The first, to design a comprehensive
health care financing system involves developing an overall strategy for the sector as well as a detailed
implementation mechanisms for all of the functions of the system such as collecting revenue, determining
benefits, and contracting and paying providers. The second, to develop a social welfare strategy, would
ensure that important policy decisions about social welfare and pensions are considered at the same time
as similar debates are incurring in the health sector. The third, to implement a public information
program, would help to bring consensus and understanding around difficult issues in health sector reform.
* Designing the strategy and implementation mechanisms for the health financing system. The
project would develop an interim health care financing strategy that includes sustainable long-term
guidelines, short-and medium-term objectives and an implementation plan. There should be wide-
spread consultation on the plan, including regional consultation meetings and a Kosovo-wide
conference. Along with the financing strategy, the annual consolidated health care budgets would be
developed and approved by the Govermnent. The project would also build capacity among health
policy makers to plan and govern the health care financing system. Activities include the provision of
on-going technical assistance and basic training in topics of strategic and financial planning (e.g.
budgeting and national health accounts, revenue planning, budgeting, introducing financial
incentives, etc.) and financial management (e.g. controlling budgets, collecting revenues and
administering funds, containing costs, contracting, etc.) to Department of Health and Social Welfare
officials and regional health administrators. Also, a well-targeted study tour would be organized to
familiarize health care finance planners with the key elements of and strategic choices made within
health financing systems of European countries. At the end of the project, a detailed evaluation of the
Interim Health Care Financing Strategy would be carried out and would include recommendations.
32



Assess alternative sources of revenues. The project would ensure a detailed design and econometric
modeling of health sector sources of revenue, e.g. several premiums, different tax sources, co-
payments, donations, possibly community funds etc. The design should also take into consideration
(1) which groups are eligible and which groups are exempted from payment of taxes, co-payments,
etc. (2) effects on the economy and labor market, (3) effects on household incomes, (4) the ethnic
situation. Furthermore, the design would also need to specify the mechanisms by which the
Government and Health Insurance Fund would collect and/or transfer revenues in the most efficient
way. In particular, the design should specify the links between needs in the health and social sectors
and revenue planning and raising.
Designing a co-payment system. As an urgent priority, the project would engage designing a simple
co-payment scheme. The scheme should (1) increase the use of primary health care services in
relation to hospital care (2) specify which groups are eligible and which groups are exempted from
paying co-payments, (3) be accompanied by first projections on revenues and use of types of services,
(4) be accompanied by recommendations on the 2000/2001 health sector budgets and (5) be
accompanied by recommendations on the collection and use of the funds. A methodology would be
developed to periodically review the co-payment system and the project would ensure a first review
of the effects of the co-payment system. This review would need to include analysis of revenues,
analysis of the impact of imposing co-payment on use of specific types of services and the
consequences on health of different population groups, as well as the administrative burden and costs
of introducing co-payments.
Desi2ning a health benefit package. In conformity with the health care financing strategy, and
following detailed modeling of revenue sources and implementation of a co-payment system, an
official and uniform benefit package to be financed by the Health Insurance Fund and other public
schemes (e.g. Government scheme and community schemes) will be designed. The health benefit
package would be equitable and would protect the vulnerable groups of the population. It would
address major health problems and would be based on a positive list of cost-effective health care
interventions. The design of the package would be accompanied by projections on costs, the potential
impact on the use of specific types of services, and the consequences on health, as well as the
administrative burden and costs of introducing a health benefit package.
Designing (cost-effective resource allocation and provider payment mechanisms. Activities under
this task would therefore include: (1) developing policies to govern the distribution of health funds to
different regions and providers and gradually introducing universal budgeting methodologies within
the health system, (2) specifying the (financial) relationship between purchasers and individual
providers, and (3) creating the payment mechanisms (e.g. capitation, case-mix, fee-for-service) and
in-built financial incentives to patients and providers to be used in primary, secondary and tertiary
care, in close coordination with WHO.
Developing a Social Protection Strategy. While the social protection system is not a major priority
under the proposed project - in part due to the major contribution being made presently by donors and
NGOs - it is important to support development in the nearest future of an overall strategy for the
sector. This will require a deeper understanding of inherited programs, current initiatives, and
existing institutional and financing capacity. The proposed project will support these initial steps, in
order to provide a strategic framework for subsequent programs of local and international actors.
This will also promote greater coherence in social insurance, and exploit institutional synergies in the
combined health and social welfare administration. The project would provide funding for the
following: (i) technical assistance on social protection strategy and management/administration; (ii)
limited initial training for key policy makers and administrators in the sector; and (iii) basic equipping
of the central offices of the pension and social assistance administrations. There would also be a
33



limited amount made available for equipping the headquarters of the Pension Fund and Children's and
Invalid Fund, including computers, office equipment and supplies, and a vehicle.
Technical assistance would be provided in the following areas:
Overall strategic directions and priorities for the social protection system in Kosovo. This would
include at a minimum the pensions and disability benefit system, social assistance programs (cash and
in-kind; regular and one-time benefits, including child allowances), active and passive labor market
programs, and the relation between public and non-government programs. Given experience in
neighboring countries (e.g. BiH; Croatia), the veterans' benefit system would probably also be
included. Strategy development would require development of a framework for prioritizing social
protection programs in the light of short to medium term objectives, and institutional and financing
capacity. Preliminary analysis of the inherited social protection system indicates that it is overly
complex given current realities, and that there needs to be a fundamental reassessment of the
sustainable scope of public responsibilities in the sector. This is particularly important in the short
run, prior to restarting of payroll tax contributions which formerly financed many programs
An assessment of existing managerial and administrative capacity in the sector, and the extent to
which this is matched with needs. This would include analysis of management and information
systems, human resources policy (including development of a training and institutional strengthening
program), infrastructural base and needs, and other aspects of social protection administration. It
would also require an assessment of existing targeting criteria being used by donors and NGOs, and
their relevance for design of public sector programs. The work would provide the basis for more
detailed planning and implementation in the sector, and act as a resource for donors interested in
investing in the social protection sector.
Initial training of key social protection policy makers and administrators
Implementing a public information campaign The fundamental changes in the health financing
structure will affect most households in Kosovo. Monitoring public opinion is key for implementing
reforms successfully. The public information campaign would provide essential support to the health
financing and restructuring reforms by: (1) informing the general public and health care providers
about the goals and progress of the reforms; and (2) using this information and targeted messages to
highlight the benefits and build support among key beneficiary groups. Specifically, this component
would implement a campaign strategy over the life of the project by running programs and
advertisements on TV, radio, and in newspapers; and hosting public events and seminars. The impact
of the campaign would be monitored through the use of benchmark and tracking polls as well as focus
groups. This component would finance foreign and local technical assistance, workshops and
seminars, development, production, and distribution of campaign materials (posters, banners, etc),
information handouts and booklets, production and broadcasting of TV and radio programs and
advertisements; surveys, focus groups, and polls.
Sub-Component 2.2: Strengthening the Capacity of Health Insurance Fund ($1,300,000)
Upgrading the housing and equipment/furniture for the Health Insurance Fund. The project will
cover building repairs for the permanent site of the Health and Social Welfare Funds (Health
Insurance, Pension, and others that are developed) providing any civil works contracts are procured
following Bank procurement procedures. Activities under this task include: (1) procurement and
execution of limited civil works and (2) procurement and installation of computers, other
technological equipment, and furniture.
34



Developing the organizational and governance structure of the Health Insurance Fund. In conformity
with the health care financing strategy - which should clarify the (future) role, objectives and pace of
implementation of the health insurance system and Health Insurance Fund - and depending on the
future administrative structure of Kosovo, the project would ensure that an effective and efficient
organizational and governance structure would be developed with and for the Health Insurance Fund.
This would be done by agreeing on a charter and a business plan. The charter will clarify the legal
position, organization of the Health Insurance Fund at the central and peripheral level, and the
governance and accountability structures and responsibilities/operations of the Fund, etc. The
business plan would set-out the strategic goals, operational objectives, milestones and priorities, and
implementation arrangements for the short- and medium-term, including restoring the functions of:
revenue modeling and collection; processing bills and claims; resource allocation and budgeting;
contracting and provider payment; financial reporting. During the project's period, implementation of
the Charter and business plan will be monitored.
Training of the Health Insurance Fund's staff. The project would include the development and
implementation of a number of training activities for all levels of Health Insurance Fund staff.
Training activities, which would coincide with developments within the health care financing and
health insurance system and responsibilities, will include (1) basic computer training for all staff and
specific computer training for selected staff, (2) management training for the Fund's managers
(management tools, financial planning and reporting, revenue collection, budget management,
contracting, etc.) and (3) other training as needs arise, such as on-the-job-assistance to managerial and
operational staff to write financial reports, to develop and negotiate contracts, to model and collect
revenues, to plan and administer budgets, etc. Finally, this task also includes the organization of a
study tour for Health Insurance Fund staff to gain an insight into the role, operations and procedures
used in other European Health Insurance Funds.
Sub-Component 2.3: Preparing an implementation plan for restructuring the health sector ($460,000)
The project will develop an implementation plan for restructuring the primary, secondary and emergency
health care services in Kosovo based on the interim health policy guidelines. The process of developing
the plan will be in collaboration with key stakeholders, including UNMIK, WHO, and Kosovar service
providers, and beneficiaries, namely patients.
The implementation plan will consist of three activities: a general assessment of the health system in
Kosovo through consolidation and review of previously-gathered data; a primary care model building
upon available health resources (including personnel), and a hospital restructuring plan consistent with the
primary care model.
PHC Package:
List of select sites and buildings for PHC centers: The list will identify the sites, most appropriate for
the catchment area and operation of the primary care services. Consideration will be given to the
existing building conditions, travel distance for the population and future development. All existing
and prior work would be incorporated into the process for analysis and outcome. The process
towards best solutions will be in collaboration with the providers and all stakeholders. Sites will be
presented in a table form, indicating all pertinent data for each.
Staff patterns and needfor each selected site: Proposed staffing structure would be based on an
agreed upon operation and practice method. Education and training for changes in practice will be
tied into the time frame for the staffing restructuring. Incentives will be proposed to attract
additional GPs towards primary care. The process and patterns will be reviewed and approved by all
stakeholders.
35



Generic equipment list, and costs for each site: (not consumable and not disposable) Generic list of
equipment will include broad description of each item, without suggesting the specific manufacturer.
Typical protocols for PHC: Typical protocols will be reviewed with stakeholders' representatives and
will readjusted to suite the particular needs of the catchment area. Based on the format of the typical
protocols, additional protocols can be developed at the later date as required.
Typical Scripts for emergency advice: Typical scripts will be reviewed with stakeholders'
representatives and will be adjusted to suite the particular needs of the catchment area.
Training need assessment document: The document will present existing and proposed programs in
progress. Suggestions will be made regarding additional needs and enhancements necessary for each
area of practice. This will be done in collaboration with the stakeholders and the existing program
leaders.
Human resources plan: Human resources plan will review existing programs in progress, analyze the
process for staff planning and skill mix, and propose changes and training necessary for present and
future needs.
Functional and Operational program: Hours of operation and practice, flow of patients, staff and
materials for delivery of services will be described. IT and medical records, patient and physician
education, will be proposed. Support services and infrastructure necessary to house the services will
be documented.
Space Program: Space allocation will be a guideline for evaluation of the existing buildings and a
schematic plan.
Detailed schedule for implementation: Master Schedule for implementation of all components will be
presented in Microsoft Schedule format. The schedule will enable tracking of activities on the critical
path, reporting on upcoming and past due activities, 30 day or other duration outlook windows, etc.
The Master Schedule can be periodically updated and adjusted for changing needs.
Secondary Care Package:
Service plan: The service plan will be developed together with the stakeholders. Based on the
demographics, morbidity and need assessment, scope of each service for the catchment area and will
be determined.
Staff patterns: Proposed staffing structure will be based on an agreed upon operation and practice
method. Education and training for changes in practice will be tied into the time frame for the staffing
restructuring. Disincentives will be proposed to reduce the excess number of specialists and promote
transition to general practice. The process and patterns will be reviewed and approved by all
stakeholders.
Functional and Operational Program: Evaluation would be made of best practice for each
department. Support services, medical records, IT systems to be reviewed and quality and utilization
management process would be addressed. Support services and infrastructure necessary to house the
services will be documented. The flow of patients, staff and materials for delivery of services will be
described.
Space program: Space allocation will be a guideline for evaluation of the existing buildings and
schematic plan.
36



Generic equipment list, and costs for each site (not consumable and not disposable): Generic list of
equipment will include broad description of each item, without suggesting the specific manufacturer.
Training need assessment document: The document will present existing and proposed programs in
progress. Suggestions will be made regarding additional needs and enhancements necessary for each
area of practice. This will be done in collaboration with the stakeholders and the existing program
leaders.
Detailed schedule for implementation: Master schedule for implementation of all components will be
presented in Microsoft Schedule format. The schedule will enable tracking of activities on the critical
path, reporting on upcoming and past due activities, 30 day or other duration outlook windows, etc.
The Master Schedule can be periodically updated and adjusted for changing needs.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.26 million
3. Monitoring and Evaluation
This component would provide critical information to the project on the financing and utilization of social
services by the population. These data, to be collected at the beginning, end, and during the project,
would guide the development and monitoring of the respective strategies for the Departments of Health
and Social Welfare and Education.
Two household surveys would be conducted, one early in implementation for baseline data, one toward
the end of the project. Issues addressed in the surveys would include: the sources of household income
(from all members, including the diaspora), the locus of control of these resources (are resources pooled,
spent by the earner, allocated by head of household), expenditures by type (housing, education, health,
clothing, travel, business, food, etc.), savings habits, changes in household composition, etc.
Additionally, there would be sector-specific questions: e.g., what is the highest level of education
achieved by each member of the household, where was the last health facility visited and how far from
the home was it). The sampling of the surveys would take into account the rural/urban distribution of the
population-that many households from destroyed rural areas have moved to more accessible urban
settings. Similarly, the surveys would include representative samples of the minority populations of
Kosovo. The surveys would possibly be longitudinal, following the same households over time, to study
how programs and policies influence income and expenditures. Between 1500-2000 households would be
surveyed.
A particular challenge will be development of a representative sampling frame, given the absence of
recent census data, the impact of the conflict on the population size and structure, ongoing movements of
population, and possible absence of materials such as detailed cartographic materials. In order to deal
with these constraints, and still have results which are reliably indicative of the situation in different
regions of Kosovo, there would need to be significant stratification of the sample (e.g. by region;
urban/rural). While the proposed surveys will not aim for the full coverage and precision of a Living
Standards Measurement Survey, they will likely require an enumeration exercise, using existing databases
such as that of World Food Program, UNFPA, and Mother Teresa Society. The surveys would be critical
initial steps which would provide a baseline for subsequent more elaborated household and labor force
surveys. At the same time, the income and expenditure data and other household welfare indicators could
provide a rapid, though crude, basis for an initial assessment of relative living standards throughout
Kosovo.
37



Because the environment of Kosovo-political, economic, military, etc.-is changing so rapidly, it would be
important to incorporate social assessments in an on-going basis throughout the life of the project. These
assessments would be in conjunction with other Bank assessments being done, and would likely include a
variety of social research methodologies (focus group and key informant interviews, for example).
Project Component 4 - US$0.10 million
4. Proiect Manag-ement Support
The objective of this component is to provide support as needed for project management, particularly
dedicated support for project procurement, and to build the capacity of the local staff in UNMIK for areas
relevant to project management, including sectoral project management, procurement and financial
management training.
The component will finance the services of local consultants and training.
38



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KOSOVO: Education and Health Project
Local     Foreign      Total
Proi-ct Cost ly Component              US Smillion  US'$million  US $million
Al. Design and Piloting of an Education Funding System  0.00        0.80       0.80
A2. Strengthening Governance and Institutional Capacity of  0.00    0.50       0.50
the University of Prishtina
A3. Developing Capacity to Define Standards and Assess  0.03        0.41       0.44
Performance
A4. Development Education Governance and Management     0.00        0.21       0.21
Structures
B1. Developing Health and Social Welfare Financing      0.00        0.86       0.86
Strategies
B2. Strengthening the Capacity of the Health Insurance Fund  0.00   1.30        1.30
B3. Preparing an Implementation Plan for Retructuring the  0.00     0.46       0.46
Health Sector
C. Monitoring the Impact of Social Sector Reforms       0.00        0.26       0.26
D. Project Management Support                           0.00        0.10       0.10
Total Baseline Cost                                     0.03        4.90       4.93
Physical Contingencies                                 0.00        0.00        0.00
Price Contingencies                                    0.00        0.00       0.00
Total Project Costs           0.03       4.90        4.93
Total Financing Required           0.03        4.90       4.93
Local     Foreign      Total
.   ...Projec Cost Ay Category             US $mnilion  US $million  US $million
Consultant Services and Training                          0.00         3.88       3.88
Goods, including Information Technology, Office Equipment,  0.00      0.62        0.62
and Furniture
Civil Works                                              0.03         0.40        0.43
0.00        0.00        0.00
Total Project Costs  0.03        4.90        4.93
Total Financing Required  0.03         4.90       4.93
39



Annex 4: Financial Summary
KOSOVO: Education and Health Project
Years Ending
January 1 - December 31
|Yearl | Year 2 lYear 3 lYear 4  lYearS | Year6  Year 7 
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.1      2.3       2.0        0.5      0.0       0.0     0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs         0.1       2.3       2.0        0.5      0.0       0.0     0.0
Total Financing             0.1       2.3       2.0        0.5     0.0        0.0     0.0
Financing
CBR1)iIDA                 0.1       2.1       1.8       0.4      0.0       0.0      0.0
Government                0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
Central                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.2       0.2        0.1     0.0       0.0      0.0
tJser FeeslBeneficiaries  0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing   0.1       2.3       2.0        0.5     0.0       0.0      0.0
Main assumptions:
Cofinancing ($0.5 million) remains to be identified.
40



Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KOSOVO: Education and Health Project
Procurement
This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Kosovo Education and Health
Project.
Civil works, goods and services to be financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods
are summarized in Tables A and Al. The thresholds for each procurement method and Bank prior
review (including aggregate values) are shown in Table B. A procurement plan detailing the
packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is available as part of the Project
Inplementation Plan. The Disbursement Schedule is shown as Table C. All other procurement
information, including a preliminary assessment of the capability of the implementing agency and
necessary Action Plan, estimated dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is
presented in the "Assessment of the Capacity of the Implementing Agency", included in the Project
files.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ rnillion equivalent)
Procurement  Method'
Expenditure Category       iCB          NCR           Oter2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.40          0.00           0.03          0.00         0.43
(0.40)       (0.00)        (0.03)         (0.00)       (0.43)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00           0.62          0.00         0.62
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.62)         (0.00)       (0.62)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00           3.39          0.50         3.89
TA and Training              (0.00)       (0.00)         (3.39)        (0.00)       (3.39)
0.00         0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.40          0.00          4.04          0.50          4.94
(0.40)       (0.00)        (4.04)         (0.00)       (4.44)
ll   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies
2/   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through shopping, consulting services and training.
Notes Explaining the "Other" Category:
Works: Minor Civil Works, consisting of rehabilitation/renovation of one office space. The threshold for Minor
Works is $50,000. One contract is planned and the value of the contract is $30,000.
Goods: Includes readily available information technology equipment, office equipment and office furniture of
standard specifications will be procured through International Shopping for contracts under $200,000. Nine
contracts are planned (average value is approximately $69,000).
Services: Consulting Services and Training will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines. See Table
Al for details.
41



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           2.26      0.00      0.00        0.00        0.09      0.61      0.50        3.46
(2.26)   (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.09)    (0.61)   (0.00)        (2.96)
B. Individuals    0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00        0.00      0.44      0.00        0.44
(0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.44)   (0.00)        (0.44)
Total   2.26       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.09       1.05      0.50        3.90
(2.26)   (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.09)    (1.05)   (0.00)        (3.40)
l\ Including contingencies
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines) and Single Source
Selection of Firms (in accordance with Clauses 3.8 - 3.11 of the Guidelines). It is estimated that $610,000
million in contracts will be awarded to firms on a single source basis; and $438,000 in contracts will be
awarded to individuals on the basis of qualifications.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
42



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold           Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Catego!r    (US$ thousands)          Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                    > $200,000               ICB                   $400,000
< or = $200,000           NCB
< or = $50,000        Minor Works
2. Goods                  < or = $200,000            IS                       $0
3. Services               Not Applicable    QCBS, CQ or SS (firms)    All TORs and contracts
exceeding $100,000 with
firms ($2.70 million agg.)
Individual Qualifications    All TORs and contracts
(individuals)       exceeding $50,000 with
individuals (US$295,000)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $3.40 million or 77% of
the Grant amount
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1. Procurement of Civil Works
Civil Works (US$0.43 million) will be procured as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB). All civil works contracts estimated to be above
US$200,000 equivalent will be procured through ICB. One building rehabilitation -- which will
house all of the social insurance funds (health insurance fund, pension fund, and child allowance
fund) as well as the Department for Health and Social Welfare -- is envisaged to be conducted
following ICB procedures. The estimated value of this rehabilitation is US$400,000.
(b) Minor Civil Works. One civil works contract for a minor office space rehabilitation for the
proposed education assessment unit, with an estimated value of US$30,000, will be procured under
I Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
43



lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of three quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
description of the scope of work, including basic specifications, the expected completion date, a form
of contract acceptable to the Bank, and the relevant drawings if applicable.
2. Procurement of Goods
Goods (approximately US$0.62 million) consisting of information technology equipment and
related software, office equipment and furniture in package sizes that will encourage competitive
bidding. International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-shelf
goods (information technology equipment and related software, office equipment and office
furniture) of standard specifications estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract
up to an aggregate amount of US$0.62 million (100% of total goods). These procedures will require
quotations from at least (3) three suppliers from two different countries.
3. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services (US$3.28 million in technical assistance and US$0. 11 million
in training assignments is required for the Project) will be awarded following the World Bank
Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. To the extent possible, contracts have been
packaged to include a combination of related skills and services and increase competition. The
following methods of procurement will be followed:
(a) Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant services
and training contracts up to and aggregate amount of US$2.26 million equivalent. It is planned that 4
contracts following QCBS procedures will be awarded. The average value of each contract is
approximate US$450,000.
(b) Selection based on Consultant Firm's Qualifications (CQ). Selection based on
consultant qualifications will be used for very small assignments (less than $100,000). Only the
contracts for (i) public information research and (ii) the organization of a local social protection
workshop are envisaged to be selected following this method. The estimated value of the contract is
US$9 1,000.
(c) Individual Consultant based on Qualification procedures will be used for assignments
which meet the criteria specified in Section V of the Guidelines. There are 10 contracts for which
the total estimated value is US$438,000.
(d) Single Source procedures will only be used for the direct costs of training (US$107,000)
and for only one assignment which complies with the Criteria for Single Source selection as
specified in the Guidelines section 3.9 (US$500,000). The assignment -- to design the higher
education legislation and strengthen the management and planning capacity of Prishtina University -
- will be awarded on a sole source basis to the Council of Europe which is justified due to the unique
qualifications of the multi-lateral organization which has undertake assignments under similar post-
conflict, multi-ethnic circumstances and the need to ensure a multi-lateral as opposed to a bi-lateral
approach to higher education reform. This multi-lateral, pan-European approach is consistent with
the strategic approach of the UNMIK Interim Administration. The Council of Europe has also
agreed to finance the overhead costs of contract management out of its own budget which will
ensure the cost-competitiveness of the proposal.
44



4. Notification of Business Opportunities
It is estimated that a General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the April 16, 2000
issue of Development Business and will be updated annually if there are any outstanding tenders
thereafter. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000 a Specific Procurement Notices/Request for
Expression of Interest will be advertised in Development Business, in the Public Procurement
Bulletin of the UNMIK Interim Administration as well as another appropriate newspaper of wide
local circulation. The Invitation to Bid for the civil works contract procured following ICB
procedures will also be advertised in Development Business, in the Public Procurement Bulletin of
the UNMIK Interim Administration and an appropriate newspaper of wide local circulation.
5. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the proposed
procurement plan for the project will be reviewed by UNMIK (specifically the Department of Health
and Social Welfare, the Department of Education, and the Central Procurement Entity) and the
Association will be advised of any revisions for its review in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Annex 1 of the Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of civil works, goods and
services for the project will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan which
will be modified as appropriate and included in the progress reports subject to Bank review.
Prior review: (a) Civil Works: The one ICB contract will be subject to prior review. (b)
Goods: The nine contracts will be subject to ex-post review. (c) Consulting Services: Terms of
reference for all consulting and training assignments will be subject to prior review. Request for
Proposals (RFP), short lists, terms and condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports and
recommendation for award will be prior reviewed for contracts for individual consultants above
$50,000 and firms above $100,000. All contracts awarded on a Single Source basis will be subject
to prior review.
After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of
a contract resulting in an increase above 15% of the original amount, the Bank will reserve the right
to prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting services).
Ex-post review: All tenders, regardless of value, are subject to ex-post review. All
documentation, including, but not limited to: TOR, bidding documents or request-for-proposals,
bids or proposals received, correspondence on all bids either prior to or following award of contract
including Bank no objections, contracts and any subsequent amendments should be maintained until
at least two years following the close of the Project. During Bank supervision missions, not less than
1 in 5 tenders not subject to Bank prior review will be examined ex-post.
6. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Domestic preference will not apply to any contracts awarded under this Grant.
45



Disbursement
Allocation of proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Grant would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table C. It is
expected that the proceeds of the Grant will be disbursed over a period of 3 year s, which includes six
months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no standard
disbursement profile for Kosovo, the disbursement forecast is based on previous experience. The Project
Completion Date is December 31, 2002 and the Closing Date is June 30, 2003.
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
.Expenditure Categr                         Amount in US$           Financing Percentage
Ia. Consultant Services and Training for           1,460,000.00                  100%
Part A
lb. Consultant Services and Training for           1,565,000.00                  100%
Part B
Ice. Consultant Services and Training for            361,550.00                  100%
Parts C and D
2a. Goods for Part A                                 468,450.00                   100%
2b. Goods for Part B                                 150,000.00                   100%
3a. ..... ....... W o rk s..  for.........   P art........... A.  ................ ............  .......... ...   ......  .. ...   3 0 ,0 00. . 00.. ...   100%..... ........ ..... .... .. .......  ....   ....
3b. Works for Part B                                 400,000.00                  100%
Total Project Costs                                4,435,000.00         ___________
Total                                              4,435,000.00         __________
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the grant are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) as follows: (a) civil works for all contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each; (b) goods costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each contract; (c) services
contracts for (i) individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than
US$ 100,000 equivalent each; and (d) training and study tours for less than US$20,000 equivalent
each. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full
documentation and respective procurement guidelines. SOEs will be certified locally by the Central
Fiscal Authority. Related documentation in support of SOEs will not be submnitted to the Bank, but
will be retained by the CFA for at least one year, after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the
year in which the last disbursement is made. This documentation will be made available for review
by the auditors and supervision missions. If ineligible expenditures, included those not justified by
the evidence furnished, are financed from the Special Accounts (SA), the Bank will have the right to
withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Recipient has:
(a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible
expenditures that can be used to offset the ineligible amounts.
46



Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, UNMIK will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commerical bank acceptable to
the Bank. An initial authorized Special Account allocation of $350,000 will be established. An
authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$750,000 once the aggregate disbursements of the
Grant total $1,000,000 or more. This relatively large Special The account size is justified for several
reasons: (i) being able to authorize payments directly from the Special Account to contracts rather than
requesting any direct disbursements will be administratively easier for the CFA to manage; (ii) frequent
Special Account replenishment applications would also be an undue administrative burden on the CFA;
(iii) the Special Account will be held in a very secure banking environment as it will be a sub-account of
the bank accounting containing all donor funds supporting the Kosovar consolidated budget; and (iv) the
Project has a short implementation period, requiring a very quick disbursement method. The minimum
amount of each application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications
should be submitted by the CFA at least every four months, and must include reconciled bank statements
as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Project Accountin2
The Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), acting under the authority of the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, is responsible of the overall financial management of the Kosovo Budget and the
budgets under the responsibility of the municipalities, which together from the Kosovo Consolidated
Budget (KCB). Specifically, the CFA is responsible for budget process and preparation, treasury
functions, revenue analysis, tax collection and customs administration. Currently, the CFA is funded
primarily through the International donor community and its day-to-day management is conducted by
international experts. One of its key objectives is to allocate, commit and track funds for public sector
spending through an automated system to enhance accountability and government financial operations.
To ensure that expenditure are consistent with the amounts and purpose set out in the KCB, regulations
have been approved by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. To prevent abuse and fraud,
explicit administrative instructions and procedures are in place for the commitment and expenditure of
public money. Also, in order to minimize the risk of fraud and malfeasance, an independent officer from
the procurement process checks and confirms that these rules have been adhered to. A detailed
description of the instructions and procedures are found in the PIP.
The Bank has discussed with the representatives of the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), Bank's reporting
requirements for projects and the need for the establishment of a proper financial management system to
produce Project Management Reports (PMR). The representatives of the CFA explained to the mission
that the Treasury Department of the CFA was in the process of modifying its accounting systems for the
KCB, and for its single treasury account (STA), which would consolidate payments and receipts of all
line ministries and municipalities. The chart of accounts is based on the GFMIS. As the participants
under the project fall under the umbrella of the KCB, all project related payments would be made via the
STA, and the accounts would be maintained as part of the CFA's accounting system. The current system,
at the moment will not be able to produce the integrated PMRs (Financial report, Progress Report and
Procurement Management Report), as required by the IDA. However, the modifications that are been
carried out would enable it in the future to produce PMRs. In order for the CFA to produce PMRs
acceptable to the Bank the following steps will be taken:
1. A chart of accounts will be developed for the project by the CFA in coordination with the Health and
Education counterparts, and will be incorporated into CFA's own chart of accounts with budget
classification codes based on the GFMIS;
47



2. An expatriate staff assigned to the Treasury Department of the CFA will be in charge of producing
the PMR as required by the Bank. He will have counterparts in the Education and Health Affairs,
who will coordinate project implementation and assist in the preparation of the PMRs.
3. Modify the existing data base to produce quarterly PMRs no later than June 30, 2001;
4. A Bank Disbursement Officer will hold a workshop for the staff of the Treasury Department of the
CFA on Bank Disbursement Procedures;
5. The CFA will utilize traditional Bank disbursement procedures. A move to PMR based disbursements
will be considered once a Bank FMS has reviewed and certified the PMRs as acceptable for
disbursements.
6. Confirmation that the European Court of Auditors appointed by UNMIK will include in its scope of
work audit of the project acounts should be received by negotiations or a selection of an auditor
acceptable to the Bank, to audit the project accounts should be completed no later than October 31,
2000.
The Treasury Department of the CFA is expected to have:
1. adequate financial management capacity to properly handle the tasks of disbursement and
accounting required for implementation of the project objectives; and
2. proper monitoring mechanism to report accurately on the status of the expenditure for the project
as a whole, its various components and each expenditure category as represented in the Grant
Agreement, by each funding source.
Project records will be maintained in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) as
issued by the International Accounting Standard Committee (IASD). An action plan for the
establishment of the Financial Management System is attached to the PIP.
Proiect Audit and Other Reporting
Project Audits
UNMIK has decided to appoint the European Court of Auditors to undertake annual audits of the entire
consolidated Kosovar budget. It is proposed that the audit of the project accounts would be included
within this audit. During negotiations, the arrangements for this audit and the terms of reference were
confirmed. The audit costs would be borne by UNMIK as part of its operating costs. If a separate
independent audit is necessary, then the costs for this audit should be considered as part of the Grant
expenditures. Project accounts, financial statements, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures
will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing for Projects
Financed by the World Bank (March 1982) as well as the Financial Accounting Reporting andAuditing
Handbook (January 1995). In particular, International Auditing Standards (IAS) as published by the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) will be consistently applied. The CFA will provide the
Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, including an opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on
disbursements against certified SOEs, or against PMRs. The opinion should mention whether the
SOEs/PMRs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
Proiect Reportin2
UNMIK, lead by the Health and Social Welfare Department and the Education Department, in
coordination with the CFA and CPE, will ensure that proper project progress reports are prepared and
submitted to the IDA in a timely fashion. These include comprehensive quarterly reports covering project
financing, implementation progress (including variance reporting), procurement progress and contract
48



expenditure. The reporting system will be in compliance with the formats provided by the IDA in the
Project Financial Management Manual (Exposure Draft, February 1999). A copy has been given to the
CFA. These include: project status reports, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation progress,
problems encountered, corrective actions needed, rationale for actions; (ii) the current state of project
indicators; and (iii) the current costs of each project component and estimated costs of completion
Procurement reports, including (i) which describe the progress of procurement activities against the plans
set forth in the PIP, variations in progress, reasons for variations, and remedial actions; (ii) bid evaluation
reports, as they arise in the procurement processes.
49



Annex 6: Project Processing Schedule
KOSOVO: Education and Health Project
_ro ect Schedule                              Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   4                 3
First Bank mission (identification)        01/17/2000          01/17/2000
Appraisal mission departure                03/13/2000          03/13/2000
Negotiations                               03/13/2000          03/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness              04/28/2000
Prepared by:
UNMIK/World Bank
Preparation assistance:
WHO
DFID
UNESCO
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Laura Rose                  Health Team Leader
Jim Stevens                 Education Team Leader
Kari Hurt                   Operations Analyst
Peter Darvas                Higher Education Specialist
Nedim Jaganj ac             Public Health Specialist
Eric Pedersen               Consultant, Education Finance Specialist
Johanna Crighton            Consultant, Standards and Assessment Specialist
Serge Heijnen               Consultant, Health Economist
Ariane Zand                 Consultant, Health Systems Specialist
Ruth Walkup                 Anthropologist, Social and Institutional Assessments
Hiran Herat                 Financial Management Specialist
Ronald Isaacson             Implementation Specialist, Procurement Accredited Staff Member
Barbara Santos              Senior Counsel
Joseph Formoso              Senior Disbursement Officer
Ian Newport                 ECA Chief Counsel
Philip OKeefe               Economist, Social Protection
50



Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
KOSOVO: Education and Health Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Included in project files
B. Bank Staff Assessments
(1) Institutional and Social Assessments (see Summary Analysis)
(2) Assessment of municipality capacity for block grant pilots in education (in project files)
(3) Assessment of the Capacity of the Implementing Agency
(4) Financial Management Capacity Assessment
C. Other
*Including electronic files
51



