Report No. PID9000
Project Name                     Kosovo-Education and Health Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Education; Population;
Health & Nutrition Adjustment
Project ID                       KOPE69516
Borrower(s)                      UN INTERIM ADMINISTRATION (UNMIK)
Implementing Agency
Address UNMIK
UNMIK Departments of Education,
and Health and Social Welfare
UNMIK, Pristina
Contact Person: Schnoor (Education)
and Stalhandske (Health)
Tel: 1 (212) 963-8603
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 13, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 27, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
2. Objectives
EDUCATIONto improve efficiency and equity in public resource allocation
for educationto create a knowledge base for education and focus attention
on system inputs, outputs and outcomesHEALTHTo improve the efficiency and
equity of public financing for health services
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has a comparative advantage in assisting systemic reform and
re-structuring, and significant experience in this area in both education
and health throughout central and eastern Europe over the past 7-8 years.
4. Description
The project will provide technical assistance and some material support to
help re-build and re-structure the governance, finance, and administration
of Kosovo's education and health systems.
Design and Piloting of an Education Funding System - assistance will be
provided to design and pilot an education funding system in which central
revenues would be allocated to municipalities and/or schools in a lump sum
based on a per student funding formula, leaving spending priorities to be
determined, within norms, at the municipality/school level. Support will
be provided to design the financing mechanism and carry out pilots in 3-5
municipalities to be identified. The component will also finance
development of an initial statistical module of a management information
system for the UNMIK Department of Education and the University of
Pristine, as well as software development and management training.



Strengthening Governance and Institutional Capacity of the University of
Pristina - assistance will be provided to help define and prepare higher
education legislation and statues, and to develop a strong university
management structure and strategic planning capacity in line with Western
European university management models. The assistance will be provided as
part of a co-financing arrangement with one of several donors currently
supporting the university.
Developing a Capacity to Define Standards and Assess Performance -- the
project will provide training and technical assistance to a small group of
professionals to be located in the UNMIK Department of Education to define
educational standards within a modern framework and assess student
performance against these standards.
Developing Education Governance and Management Structures - technical
assistance will be provided to define and prepare legislation for general
education and develop modern management structures within the UNMIK
Department of Education. This assistance would support the ongoing work
of the DESK Education System Development Committee.
Developing a health and social welfare strategy - the project would
provide technical assistance to design the main elements of a new health
financing system (including revenue, expenditure allocation, incentives
and guidelines for investment) agreed by local stakeholders, UNMIK, and
donors. The project would look at both public and private sources and
uses of funds. A strategy would also be prepared for social welfare and
pensions to ensure consistency in the recently combined ministry. The
component would also finance a public information program on health sector
reform.
Strengthening the capacity of the Health Insurance Fund - a broad
consensus has already been reached that the Health Insurance Fund should
be re-established and that the functions of monitoring the collection of
revenues, contracting and provider payment will be necessary regardless of
the final design of the system. The project would provide technical
assistance and training. Funds are also available to rehabilitate and
equip the future site of the health insurance fund.
Preparing an implementation plan for restructuring the health sector - the
project would provide technical assistance to develop an implementation
plan for restructuring of the primary, secondary, and emergency services
based on the interim health policy guidelines for Kosovo. The process
would be in close collaboration with key stakeholders and beneficiaries.
Packages of procurement documents will be prepared to facilitate future
donor financing
Monitoring the impact of social sector reforms - the project will finance
two national household income and expenditure surveys as well as social
assessments and other qualitative research
5. Financing
-2-



Total ( US$m)
Government               0
IBRD
IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING        4.44
BILATERAL AGENCIES
(UNIDENTIFIED)          0.5
Total Project Cost       4.94
6. Implementation
The Project will be implemented over a period of three years. The United
Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK) will be the implementing
agency for the Project with various departments of the agency having a
role in implementation based on their respective functions in the
Administration. One of the main objectives of the proposed Project would
be to build the capacity of the Health and Education Departments of UNMIK
which are to become the Health and Education Ministries of a future local
administration in Kosovo. It is, therefore, clear that the responsibility
for implementing the Project from a professional and technical point of
view should remain within these departments. However, these departments
have neither the capacity (in terms of available human resources, skills,
or time) nor the functional responsibility within the Interim
Administration to manage the funds with respect to financial management or
procurement requirements. According to the structure of UNMIK, only the
Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), which acts as the Ministry of Finance, has
the authority to open bank accounts, conduct and monitor financial
transactions including the appointment of an independent auditor, and to
establish the regulatory framework for procurement and expenditure
transactions. It is, therefore, proposed that the CFA would be
responsible for the financial management aspects of the Grant
administration, including the opening of a Special Account as a
sub-account to their existing commercial bank account; replenish the
Special Account periodically; using their financial accounting system;
prepare the required Bank reports; and have the Grant funds audited on an
annual basis. Procurement guidelines to be applied under the project also
remain to be agreed with the CFA during negotiations. A separate
department, the Central Procurement Entity (CPE), will be responsible for
carrying out all procurement for UNMIK. It is proposed that the CPE would
carry out the agreed procurement plan according to agreed procedures on
behalf of the Health and Education Departments. However, the Departments
would be made explicitly responsible for defining TOR, determining short
lists, establishing evaluation committees, and contract management.
Clarifying these responsibilities, including the chairmanship of short
listing and evaluation committees will be an objective of the appraisal
and negotiations mission. Besides carrying out procurement activities,
the CPE would also have a role in advising the Departments on
implementation matters and reporting. In each of the departments, one
individual will be nominated to fulfill a coordination function. It was
agreed that the CPE would designate one individual within its unit as
having the Project procurement as his or her priority job responsibility.
If the CPE is not able to designate that person immediately, there are
Grant funds available within the Project Management Support Component for
this purpose. There are additional funds designated for the training of
Kosovar staff of UNMIK in procurement management and, specifically,
procurement. The two individuals nominated by the Health and Education
- 3 -



Departments will be jointly responsible for collecting all information for
the purposes of monitoring and reporting on the progress of the project to
the Bank and other authorities.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of education and health programs in Kosovo in the short
to medium term depends on the timeliness of economic recovery and a
concurrent increase in public revenues. The focus of this project on
promoting efficiency incentives in both education and health should make a
significant contribution to accelerating the sustainability of education
and health programs. Substantial private contributions are expected to be
made for health at all levels in the medium term. In education, limited
private contributions will be initiated at the higher education level, in
terms of both cost recovery for student services and enrollment fees.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A number of lessons have been applied in the design of this project in the
context of the Bank's experience in Bosnia and Herzegovina:there is a
relatively brief window of opportunity during which donors and
international experts can have a significant impact on re-structuring
systems and re-formulating policy before systems and institutions become
entrenched and resistant to change.a strong emphasis should be put on aid
coordination to ensure complementary in donor initiatives and a priority
focus in view of limited implementation and policy development capacity in
Kosovo.development support should be conditioned on policy and structural
changes aimed at providing efficiency incentives and ensuring the long
term sustainability of effective institutions and programs.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        N/A
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
James A. Stevens/Laura Rose
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-8715, (202) 473-2848
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 28, 2000.
- 5 -



