                Document of
            The World Bank




                                                   Report No: 30540

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (TF-23626)

                     ON A

           TRUST FUND GRANT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.435 MILLION

                   TO THE

United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo

                    FOR A

        Education and Health Project




             November 15, 2004

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2004)

                            Currency Unit = EURO
                                  EUR 1 = US$ 1.29
                                  US$ 1 = EUR 0.78

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency
CTZ    German Technical Cooperation Agency
CU     Country Unit
DFID   Department for International Development, United Kingdom
EHP    Education and Health Project
EMIS   Electronic Management Information Systems
EPIP   Education Participation Improvement Project
EU     European Union
FM     Financial Management
HCCA   Health Care Commissioning Agency
HD     Human Development
MOH    Ministry of Health
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PHC    Primary Health Care
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PSR    Project Status Report
QER    Quality at Entry Review
UNMIK  United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
WHO    World Health Organization

                          Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                         Sector Manager      Armin Fidler
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Betty Hanan

                                           KOSOVO
                                Education and Health Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR: Health Component                    23

Project ID: P069516                                                    Project Name: Education and Health Project
Team Leader: Betty Hanan                                               TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                     Report Date: December 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                     Name: Education and Health Project                            L/C/TF Number: TF-23626
    Country/Department: KOSOVO                                                               Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                       Region

        Sector/subsector: General education sector (34%); Non-compulsory health finance
                             (33%); Health (14%); Tertiary education (11%); Central government
                             administration (8%)
                    Theme: Education for all (P); Health system performance (P); Social analysis
                             and monitoring (P); Social risk mitigation (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                   Original                Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/21/1999                                      Effective: 05/10/2000                 05/10/2000
      Appraisal: 03/13/2000                                          MTR:
      Approval: 04/26/2000                                        Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UN INTERIM ADMINISTRATION (UNMIK) for Kosovo/UNMIK
                       Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                          At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                           Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Armin H. Fidler                                  Armin H. Fidler
Team Leader at ICR:             Betty Hanan                                      James A. Stevens
ICR Primary Author:             Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                       Sustainability:     L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                  Bank Performance:        S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                       Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The Project ratings reflect that, on balance, outcomes across the two sectoral programs were achieved and
sustainability is likely. Given the difficulties of the post conflict setting, a moderately satisfactory rating would
more appropriately reflect the project outcomes. There are lessons to be learned from the experience. However the
project did set in place the structure and principles of good governance and fiscal policies in two sectors in an
immediate post conflict setting. This is no mean achievement in a very short time and these successes, together

with good performance on the part of the Client, should be recognized.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The circumstances under which this project was prepared were unique, even for post conflict settings. This
was a World Bank financed grant, made to, and executed initially by, a newly created joint UN agency
(UNMIK) acting as sole governing body for a geographic area with indeterminate legal status. The area at
the time of project preparation was still highly politically unstable. The World Bank Board approved a
transitional support strategy for Kosovo in October 1999 which established an overall World Bank Trust
Fund for Kosovo (TFK) in the amount of US$25 million to be committed in Fiscal Year (FY) 2000. This
was to provide budgetary support as well as fund emergency support activities in a number of sectors. A
decision was made by Bank Management to allocate US$4.4 million funding to the HD sector and to focus
the grant on urgent system restructuring in health and education. Investments in hardware were being
addressed by other donors. A joint health and education project was deemed most appropriate to meet
post-conflict needs.

Speed and agility in preparation were a feature of the operating and implementation arrangements which
were overseen by an Advisory Group. The project was designed on the basis of sector strategy papers and
economic analysis undertaken for a donor conference in late 1999. It was designed specifically to
complement the activities of other donors and it was anticipated that a second wave of projects would come
on stream in FY01 to reinforce the sustainability of project activities. An official handover to Kosovar
authorities took place in 2003.

The following were the project development objectives:

Education:
l To improve efficiency and equity in public resource allocation for education

l To create a knowledge base for education and focus attention on system inputs and outcomes


Health:
l To improve the efficiency of public financing for health services

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Project Component 1 - Education. US$1.96 million (PAD estimates, total project cost)

Sub-Component 1.1: Developing Education Funding and Management Systems ($800,000)
To Provide technical assistance and training to design and initiate a decentralized system of education
funding, and for building an EMIS system.

Sub-Component 1.2: Strengthening Governance and Institutional Capacity of the University of Pristina
($500,000)
To provide technical assistance and training to the UNMIK Department of Education and the University of
Pristina to establish a legal basis for the University and elaborate a governance structure, improve planning
and management capacity.




                                                       - 2 -

Sub-Component 1.3: Developing a Capacity to Define Standards and Assess Performance ($440,000)
To provide training to develop and pilot standards-based national assessments of student learning, develop
teacher portfolio based evaluation skills and implement a public information strategy.

Sub-Component 1.4: Developing Education Governance and Management Structures ($210,000)
To provide financial advice on institutional development and training to UNMIK to design legislation for
the education system , renovate offices and design the management structure of the education department.

Project Component 2 - Health and Social Welfare. US$ 2.62 million

Sub- Component 2.1: Developing Health and Social Welfare Strategy
Activities to be included were the design a strategy for and implementation mechanisms for the health
financing system, a public information campaign and initial work on the development of a social welfare
strategy.

Sub-Component 2.2: Strengthening the Capacity of the Health Insurance Fund ( $1,300,000)
This would include financing the rehabilitation of premises, training and developing the organizational
structure for this institution.

Sub-Component 2.3: Preparing an implementation plan for restructuring the health sector ($460,000)
To finance an implementation plan for hospital restructuring, a primary health-care model and a general
assessment of the health system.

Project Component 3 - Monitoring and Evaluation. US$ 0.26 million

The project component activities included financing two household surveys and a number of social
assessments.

Project Component 4 - Project Management Support. US$ 0.10 million.

This sub-component would finance support to the project management staff in terms of training and
procurement and financial management issues.

3.4 Revised Components:
Education: Towards the mid point of the project the education activities were broadened to include the
design and development of materials for a pilot program to support schools directly through a grant
scheme utilizing some of the funding for teacher training and for social protection activities which had not
been utilized. This project developed the TA and capacity building aspects of the school grant pilots
including manuals and training and a subsequent project while the Education Participation Improvement
Project (EPIP) financed the school improvement grants. Local consultants worked with the Ministry to
develop manuals and training for this activity together with a local NGO.

Health: The policy and political situation at the time of project preparation was extremely fluid. Although
the concept of operationalizing the Health Insurance Fund was owned by the Borrower, almost immediately
after the PAD was released the Borrower and the Bank teams realized that this was premature and that
project activities should be focused on developing a Health Care Commissioning Agency. Support went to
training staff and developing the methodology for contracting regional health care providers using a new
contracting system. This Agency was to start the process of splitting the provider/ financier roles in health
care service provision.


                                                     - 3 -

A request for an extension of grant closing date of one year was received from the government on April 23,
2003. The extension was granted to: a) allow the MoH to contract technical assistance remaining unutilized
to implement performance based management contracts with hospitals and municipalities for the year 2004,
and; b) to complete civil works for the MOH offices. This refurbishing was in line with the project
objectives, as it entailed merging TB services into the Pristina University Hospital and utilizing the former
TB unit as Ministry offices. This reduced bed capacity and eliminated a single profile hospital. The bulk of
this US$1,000,000 investment for rehabilitation was financed by the Kosovar administration.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The rationale for providing this grant was to get funding to Kosovo as quickly as possible to help with
reforms in health and education financing, that were going to proceed with or without technical assistance.
UNMIK had asked for assistance. Donors were expecting the Bank to provide this assistance. The grant
funding was used much as a Japanese grant to prepare a larger investment project ­ with some pilots,
preparation of strategies and procurement documents. Project components were chosen based on sector
work carried out in 1999. This identified two priorities for education: a) the need to restore a minimally
acceptable learning environment to children currently in school; and b) the need to define a new education
system and policies.

In health, identified priorities included: a) supporting recurrent costs; b) investing in works and equipment;
c) retraining and accreditation for medical personnel; and d) technical assistance to rebuild policy and
planning capacity and the Health Insurance Fund. Given the small amount of money available for the
project it was considered most appropriate to tackle the two priorities dealing with policy and planning
issues rather than use the funding. In education, this decision was given particular impetus by a highly
pro-active UNMIK education coordinator who was using the opportunity of a vacuum in government to
push for systemic change at all levels of service delivery. It was also assumed that there would be follow
up investment programs.

For both health and education the Bank project design was influenced by the already formed programs of
other donors. The main donors in education included CIDA, UNICEF, Soros Foundation and GTZ and in
health, WHO and DFID. An initial donors' meeting held in October 1999 in Brussels agreed that the Bank
should focus on policy reforms, particularly financing in both sectors leaving physical reconstruction to
bilaterals and the European Union.

Two QAG Quality at Entry Assessments were held and at first review the project design was rated
unsatisfactory. A second review was requested by the project team and was carried out after negotiations
had been finalized in April 2000. The Quality at Entry rating was Satisfactory at this point. At the second
QAG, the project received a rating of "2" with a rating of "3" for institutional capacity analysis. The QAG
concluded that the design was appropriate in focusing on issues that were to set the stage for effective and
efficient social services. It also identified differences in design and presentation and - less consultation with
stakeholders for the education components than the health, and a slight difference in the approach -
education concentrating more on first generation, and health on building a base for second generation
inputs.

Several factors were identified as posing risks to project success. In particular the institutional capacity of
the existing governance structures was considered questionable. With the absence of a permanent elected
government, it was anticipated that the identification of qualified technical personnel who were adequately
consulted and involved at all stages of the project was important for sustainability. In addition for the
education part of the project, the scope of the EMIS system was seen as an activity which was difficult to



                                                       - 4 -

do in any circumstance, let alone an immediate post conflict situation.

The project deliberately did not specifically address social cohesion, one of the issues raised by the QAG
report. It was thought that with armed conflict only a few months past, addressing integration issues head
on was not timely, and that building a solid technical base for service delivery would draw professionals
together in practice.

Given the above, and the tight processing schedule for the project (from November 1999 to spring 2000)
the rationale for the project concept was innovative and broke the mold of investments in post conflict
countries which had previously concentrated on providing emergency hardware. This was an important
conceptual leap.

With hindsight, three major questions emerge when considering whether the design was successful; a) was
the switch in post conflict project design from emergency hardware to software the right one?; b) given that
focus, were the policy changes requested the right ones? and; c) was it right to take the same approach for
both sectors? In terms of the first question, the project concept can be considered appropriate. There was
other donor funding for immediate hardware inputs, limited grant funding and a receptive UNMIK
administration. In terms of the second question, the policy framework to be developed was appropriate for
the long term. However the changes proposed for both sectors were highly sophisticated for a three year
technical assistance project and it seems curious that the QAG report did not comment more fully on the
complexity of the proposed activities. In terms of the last issue, QAG concerns regarding the institutional
capacity of the sectors in a post conflict setting turned out to be largely correct. Adjustments made to the
project during the course of the program to respond to changing local scenarios and the perceived
complexity of the health activities in particular, did however compensate to some degree for initial
overdesign.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The conclusions reached are based on deduction and proxy indicators for improved policy development and
planning capacity, which form the basis of improved efficiency in both sectors. The project built capacity
for improvements in efficiency in both sectors in the medium term. The QAG analysis that education
activities were focused on first generation outcomes and the health component on building the basis for
second generation outcomes, is reflected in the differing outcomes for these two sectoral programs.

Most of the desired outcomes were achieved. The basis for future decision making in the health and
education sectors was put in place with an emphasis on efficiency. This was done in extremely challenging
circumstances.

Education: The development objectives were to improve efficiency and equity in public resource
allocation, and create a knowledge base and awareness of data use. The project did create a knowledge
base for education and focused attention on system inputs, outputs and outcomes.

Thus of the three outcome indicators:

   l financial mechanisms were put in place for general education and established for higher education
         to ensure efficiency in future years and monitor resources
   l there is some data available to evaluate education system performance from the assessments and




                                                       - 5 -

        from the emerging EMIS system but the system is not complete. The Ministry of Education wishes
        to make this input more sustainable.
   l policy dialogue is informed as to the need to strengthen reforms put in place by the project and is
        conducted with principles of international current practice.

Health and Social Welfare: The development objective was to improve the efficiency of public financing
for health services. The following is the assessment of outcomes for the health components.

   l The outcome indicator regarding public sector revenue has been met, although this was never
        something which was an appropriate measure as it cannot be attributable to the project inputs.
        There has been a decrease in the proportion of public sector revenue that comes from donor
        financing (since 2000 the donor grants have fallen by 70%).
   l It is yet too early to see a decrease in public sector financing spent on specialist services and a
        decrease in the proportion of practicing physicians who work in hospitals, as changes in the overall
        model of family care have not yet been achieved. It can be argued that the physician/patient ratio
        is still too low in general, and that this indicator was never appropriate. Although a large number
        of physicians are still based in hospitals rather than public health services, there are other proxy
        indicators for a shift to public health care. Four hundred primary care physicians have been
        trained recently, and the MoH has placed a ban on hiring further specialist doctors, except for a
        few areas such as pediatrics and gynecology where health issues are severe. Thus the efficiency
        principles have been established and are being operationalized.

Given the above results, the project is rated "S". It is felt that on balance sufficient project outcomes have
been met to justify this rating and that sustainability of these outcomes is likely.

4.2 Outputs by components:

1. Education: US$2.25 million (actual costs) - Rating S:           A new General Education Law has been
adopted by the National Assembly. A municipal education governance manual is available to
municipalities and schools, providing detailed procedures and descriptions of roles and responsibilities to
promote implementation of the new law. Municipalities are now responsible for service provision and the
principles of block grant funding have been established. Among other activities financial management
systems were put in place for the education system and the Ministry of Education set up on sound
principles. A set of excellent materials for the implementation of formula financing was developed. An
education funding system based on a per student funding formula and devolution of ear-marked block
grants for education to Kosovo's 30 municipalities continues to function and was adopted as a method for
the preparation and justification of the ministry's annual budget for 2004.

The Education Management System at school level was designed and put in place and is being supported
by further inputs in the second education project. In addition, the principle of having information available
for education system evaluation has been established through the development of an assessment unit in the
Ministry and more informed dialogue on policy issues has taken place. However the last activity suffered
from poor technical advice ( see implementation section) and requires more inputs to ensure sustainability.

Thus outputs were largely achieved.

l Block grant per student financing pilots were completed in thirty municipalities and this system was
    functioning at the time of project closure ( Rating S)
l Governance and financial management systems are in place for general education ( Rating S)



                                                       - 6 -

l A University of Kosovo governance and financial management system is in place (Rating S)
l Some capacity was created to set standards and assess student performance ( Rating U)


An activity that did not take place was (2) in the original sub-component outline - to develop materials and
in-service training seminars to help teachers to evaluate their students' progress in the classroom.

2. Health and Social Welfare: US$2.07 million (actual costs) - Rating S: The majority of outputs
were achieved.

l Adoption of Health and Social Welfare Strategy Papers: A Health Strategy Paper was adopted early
    in the project. A new Health Law is approved by Parliament and legislation on the setting up of a
    Health Insurance Fund is awaiting Parliament approval. An activity that did not take place was the
    development of a Social Welfare strategy.      Initial sector work for this was undertaken, but as other
    donors were also involved in social welfare issues and the project was heavily burdened with activities,
    the full set of proposed activities was not carried out ( Rating S)
l Support to the Health Care Commissioning Agency (HCCA) - a changed activity. The project
    supported the establishment of the HCCA as a unit of MOH. HCCA will act as purchaser of services
    from hospitals and municipalities. It has been slow to start but has piloted contracting of services at
    municipal and central level in one district. The MoH has recently approved increased staffing for the
    Agency and its role is expected to grow. The HCCA program will continue for the next two years with
    budget support. A facility for the Health Care Commissioning Agency was renovated (Rating PS)
l Health Financing Support: The Grant has assisted the Department of Health and Social Welfare and
    the MoH to develop an interim model for the financing of health care through supporting initial steps
    towards: (i) developing and evaluating an interim health care financing strategy; (ii) developing a model
    for planning and securing health sector funds; (iii) designing and monitoring the implementation of a
    co-payment scheme; (iv) identifying priorities for the financing of health care; (v) designing and costing
    effective resource allocation and provider payment mechanisms; (vi) developing governance structures
    and training and capacity building of staff at the Health Care Financing Structure; (viii) developing and
    implementing public information and communication activities; (ix) developing options for private
    financing and health care provision to balance public health care provision; and (x) developing a health
    and finance information strategy. (Rating PS)
l An incomplete implementation plan for restructuring the health sector was prepared (Rating U)
l A new law on procurement procedures was adopted, although control over this process was given to
    the Ministry of Finance rather than being placed in the hands of the line Ministries.(Rating S)

3. Monitoring and Evaluation Outputs: US$0.03 million (actual costs) - Rating U:              A Living
Standards Measurement survey was carried out at the beginning of the project. However a second survey
did not take place. It was unrealistic to expect a second survey in such a short timeframe. Planned repeated
social assessments did not take place either.

4. Project Management: US$0.06 million (actual costs) - Rating S: The project supported the
training of staff at PIUs for Health and Education in project management, procurement and financial
management. There were no administrative issues of significance during project implementation. Due to
the multi-sectoral nature of the program separate PIU arrangements were made for the two sets of
activities. This capacity was highly successful at the Education Ministry, but due to differing
implementation arrangements for health, with a large proportion of project administration undertaken by
consultants, initial efforts at capacity building were not so successful in this regard. However, a central
PIU might have been more administratively functional, but would not have built internal capacity in the
Ministry.


                                                      - 7 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The nature of the project, largely providing technical assistance, makes calculating the rate of return
difficult. However the substantial changes to governance and financing for both the health and education
sectors now in progress will result in reduced costs to the government and more efficient services in the
long run. However it is to be realized that setting up systems is initially expensive. Calculating efficiency
improvements on this kind of investment over a short time period is not realistic.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial rate of return was calculated for the project. The whole focus of both components was on
improving fiscal sustainability for the education and health services. A key initial issue was to ensure that
the government develops a system which was not dependent on donor financing. Some of the approaches
included in the project are: a) an emphasis on Public Health Services rather than expensive hospitals; b)
promoting nurses through establishment of nursing college and continual professional education for nurses
working in PHC, secondary and tertiary health care services; c) ensuring that education funding is well
targeted through local accountability for finances, and making data available to make efficiency related
decisions, such as improving staffing ratios.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is rated "M". At the very simplest level, a cadre of people within
UNMIK and the local Ministries were trained in financial management and procurement issues. At the
macro level, the project has had an impact on both sectors through the development of legislation, the
design and operationalizing of implementing agencies and the management of government departments. The
impact is modest because the human capacity to utilize information and procedures developed under the
project is still being developed as would be expected within the project timeframe.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The handover of power between UNMIK and the new Kosovar government in 2002-3 was a greater than
normal transition between incoming and outgoing governments and affected both components of the
project. This transition meant that a trained body of staff left and a new and untrained set of staff took
office in both Ministries. Ownership of project activities had in some cases to be re-established. The
political situation and the transition to a market economy with changing institutional arrangements
complicated matters. For example, an inability to address staffing issues in Serbian education districts led
to difficulties in utilizing the financing formula for education as efficiencies could not be made when
funding was flowing to these regions from two sources. There was an institutional vacuum in government
which was filled by an external agency (UNMIK).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The government could have been more proactive in seeking assistance from the Bank to address
administrative and structural issues in project implementation arrangements. The government has however
been proactive in seeking training to address management issues. The latest request for training on project
management was requested by the Ministry of Health and provided on January 13, 2004.




                                                       - 8 -

The overall status of public administrative reform has been a barrier to full implementation of the plans
developed for reforming the health system. At the present time, there is no coherent approach to the
allocation of public funds in Kosovo. This is the result of an institutional scenario where different
institutions are in charge of budgetary responsibilities for the same sector, and is the consequence of the
initial development stages of a newly emerging system of public administration.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The project was implemented by the line Ministries with no central PIU. The fact that there was no one
individual implementing agency created some issues which could have been foreseen. For example, with
regard to financial management , the Banks' FM team tried to involve implementing agencies more in the
project's financial management procedures - specifically to be responsible for submitting correct payment
orders, filling-in the withdrawal applications, and preparing the quarterly financial reports. This failed to
some degree, especially for the health part of the project, while the PIU established for the education project
did better. The Bank is about to launch a PEIR which will help the government in this area.

A substantial amount of core technical assistance was delivered through large consultancy contracts. The
new implementing agencies had some difficulty in ensuring quality work on the part of these consulting
firms. On the health side, the contractors were largely responsible directly for implementing activities, and
there could have been more oversight on these activities on the part of both the UNMIK and government
implementing units.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Project costs were within the original estimates and no additional financing or significant reallocations were
necessary.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of project activities is rated " Likely" because: a) the project has put in place the
foundations of systems change in both health and education; b) the central and local level governance
mechanisms are working and new institutions slowly growing and: c)some project activities ( decentralized
school grant scheme, EMIS system) are being further supported by follow on operations, and there is
further planned support from the Bank for continued implementation of health policy changes.

l Education: The project initiated the implementation of a new education governance and finance
     system. Related capacity building training was delivered to the central education department and
     municipalities. At the time of project closure, education funding was being allocated on the basis of a
     per capita formula in selected districts, although not all districts are using this system at the present
     time. The EMIS system is providing information to allow performance monitoring and more targeted
     and equitable funding. However it is not yet complete. There is no system for collating data at the
     national level, and staff at local level are insufficiently trained to fully utilize the existing system. It is
     for this reason that a component to further support the growth of the EMIS system was included in the
     ongoing second education project ( approved in FY03) and further training for Directors and school
     staff, as well as improvements to software are anticipated.

Standardized student assessments are continuing to be developed and run in the central Ministry of
Education to monitor student achievement and this unit is a functioning part of the Ministry. Further



                                                         - 9 -

technical support is needed in the follow up project. The school grant component, added late in the project
piloted the approaches used in the follow up project and continued the policy focus on decentralization. In
addition the project also addressed higher education issues through the development of a new charter for the
University of Pristina which remained the foundation of its legal status until a new statute was recently
developed.

l Health: On the health side, the project has assisted the Department of Health and Social Welfare and
    its successor authority, the Ministry of Health in operationalizing an interim health strategy. Technical
    assistance worked with the UNMIK and Kosovo agencies to develop the foundations of the Health
    Care Commissioning Agency which is still operational and growing in strength, although progress has
    been slow. The project has also provided training for staff in the development of health policy and
    provided much technical input to the development of new health financing arrangements and a new
    legal framework for health delivery. It has emphasized a shift from hospital based care to a focus on
    public health services through intensive training of Ministry staff in a Flagship Course and through
    training for physicians and nurses abroad and in Kosovo. In addition, the project has improved the
    understanding of ministry and other relevant officials about forces shaping health sector development in
    light of economic pressures through the Flagship Course. The course covered an integrated version of
    three modules of the original Flagship Program extended with topics especially relevant to the present
    stage of health reform in Kosovo.

A new Public Finance and Expenditure Management Project currently under preparation ( Presentation to
the Board of the World Bank is scheduled for May 2005) will have a health component which will, inter
alia, follow up on health financing and specifically provider payment mechanisms as part of a cost-effective
model of provision of primary health care -- family medicine implementation in a comprehensive manner.
This health care component would support the introduction of the family medicine model of primary health
care and development of a provider-payment system aimed at improving expenditure efficiency. Thus it
can be seen to be building on the work initiated by the current project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The policies developed under the project are the foundation of present health and education sector
operations in Kosovo. Sustainability is being supported by follow-on investment projects reinforcing the
same principles.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Intensive effort was put into developing this project at short notice in under six months. The project team
consisted of specialists from both sectors who worked with two sets of counterparts and the donor
community to design the project. Relations with the UNMIK sector Coordinators were good and UNMIK,
NGOs and Donors agreed on the project concept. Given the immediate post conflict situation and the lack
of a Kosovar government, the majority of consultations were with the UNMIK authorities and more
consultation with Kosovar colleagues might have built longer term ownership.

7.2 Supervision:
The project was supervised by two sectoral teams, under one Task Manager. Good supervision overall was
mixed with quick changes in Task Managership on the health team and inadequate attention to the issues on
that program, during 2002.    Difficulties that emerged in the implementation of the health component
during the middle phase of the project are only marginally reflected in the PSR ratings at that time and a
greater degree of realism would have been suitable. However subsequent task managers made significant



                                                    - 10 -

efforts to keep project activities on track and to ensure sustainability. On the health side, this has resulted
in continuing dialogue on financing and structural reforms to be incorporated into a new project. On the
education side the grant program piloted the community based approaches continued in the second
education project and support for ongoing policy activities such as the EMIS is also included in a follow-
up project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, the overall Bank team performance is considered Satisfactory under the present rating scheme.
A Marginally Satisfactory rating would reflect more adequately the uneven performance in this regard.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Bank project team received good support from the UNMIK government in the design and development
of the project and from the new Kosovo Ministries when they came on board in 2002.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation under UNMIK and the new Kosovo government has been good, particularly considering
the state of political and economic flux over the past four years. Again, changes in Ministerial
appointments in health led to less continuity than in the education sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Despite unusual conditions, there were no major issues with the implementation of this project on the
education side. The PIU performed well on the education side. Implementation activities were more
fragmented on the health side due to a loss of ownership after a change of personnel in the Ministry. There
was no cause for concern on either financial management or procurement during the life of the project -
something quite unusual in post conflict situations. The Kosovar government should be congratulated on
this aspect of performance. However differences between local procurement and financial regulations and
those of the Bank were problematic.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

Conflict can lead to opportunities for change. If these opportunities are not taken, institutions established as
temporary measures in post war situations can remain, perpetuating out of date or inappropriate
governance mechanisms. Post conflict service delivery systems are initially fragmented and decentralized.
When formal government is re-established, control is usually re-centralized. A second round of public
sector reforms is then necessary, usually decentralizing authority again. This project took advantage of this
window of opportunity for change to institute systems change processes. However, although the innovative
nature of the project is to be commended,there are both project specific and general lessons to be learned to
ensure that such approaches are improved in the future.

l Multi-sectoral projects: The project assumed that the institutional capacity was similar for the health
    and education sectors. This was not the case in this project. From the start support for education
    policy changes received strong support from the UNMIK education office, and the capacity built there
    sustained project activities. Less trained manpower available in the health sector and changes in
    Ministry staff affected the ability of the government to carry out the policy changes anticipated.

l Choice of Project Activities: The project activities were overcomplicated and oversophisticated for




                                                     - 11 -

    the timeframe. There was no need to include social protection as a component. In addition, a
    pragmatic blend of policy and praxis might have ensured more ownership. Preparation for the school
    grant scheme undertaken at the end of the project reinforced the message of decentralization which the
    project was sending on education. Similarly the introduction of training for public health care
    physicians and nurses towards the end of the project contributed not only to the impact of the project
    on policy formation but also health care delivery.

Research in the Western world on introducing innovation into government recognizes that this can come as
a response to crisis. This project took such an opportunity. However key factors in the successful
introduction of innovations include:

l Keeping them simple in approach;
l Making them easy to execute;
l Shooting for quick results; ,
l Making them appealing to the widest constituency possible and
l Keeping them apolitical.


Application of the above principles to project design might have increased impact and enhanced its ultimate
sustainability.

Implementation: Although project management was satisfactory on the part of the Borrower, particularly
given the situation in Kosovo, a central Project Implementation Unit for both components would have
facilitated coordination and oversight, particularly when there were changes in government.

In addition, the old problem of too many Bank task managers was an issue in ensuring continuity and
sustainability, particularly for health activities. There were three health task managers and two education
task managers over the course of the original three year project. A mid-term review might have been
useful, although with a rolling project in special circumstance and only a three year timeframe, the project
teams were reviewing the status of activities as they moved forward.

Monitoring and Evaluation:         The Project Status Reports consistently repeat the need for improved
stakeholder ownership of the components, yet there are social assessments built into the monitoring and
evaluation system which were never operationalized to address these concerns. Stakeholders in this
instance were administrators and public policy practitioners as well as the general public and university and
medical personnel and education staff at central and local level. Monitoring and evaluation in general was
weak, and the Bank needs to improve our overall understanding of how to address this, particularly in
investments which are largely capacity building.

Investing for sustainable results: There should be a recognition that policy based investments in
particular sectors will have to be maintained over time to show results. In this case, second stage projects
were anticipated during the project design phase. A second project materialized for education but has not
as yet for health, putting at risk the sustainability of long term development activities. Follow on projects
should also carefully include support for ensuring the sustainability of initial investments. In this case the
second education project provided only for continuation support for one of the technical components.
Continued support should be built into lending programs in order to ensure sustainability.




                                                       - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Education and Science is concerned with the rating of the assessment and evaluation
component. The component didn't achieve its objectives, regardless of the
fact that activities have been completed and results addressed.

The Ministry of Health has sent the comments below:

Although ICR acknowledges unavailability of the hard data to evaluate the outcomes of the project, the
Implementation Competition Report gives realistic ratings of the project activities considering outcomes,
sustainability, institutional development and Bank and Borrowers performance. The report also considers
specific post-conflict circumstances that the MoH as borrower was facing and recognizes MoH attempts to
develop sustainable initiatives; However, sustainability was rated as likely, which we hope will encourage
further support in health sector in general and in particular in public financing. Public financing is
considered crucial area in sustaining ongoing reforms, especially now when developing the structures to
implement approved legal acts is a challenge. Further investments in health sector in Kosovo would
promote changes as means to improve not only risk protection but also health status and increase of patient
satisfaction.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                 Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Financial mechanisms in place for both          Dissemination of per student financing model Implementation of a new education
general and higher education which              to all municipalities;                       governance/finance system and an education
provide efficiency incentives and allow         Information modules functioning at municipal management information system is
quantitative monitoring of resource allocation and central levels for general education;     underway. Related capacity building training
on equity grounds.                              Management information modules               has been delivered in the central education
                                                implemented and functioning at the           department and in the municipalities.
                                                University.
Availability of information on system           Assessment data available on a sampling      Education funding is being allocated on the
performance                                     basis for math and reading comprehension     basis of a per capita formula. The EMIS is
                                                                                             providing information to allow performance
Legislation/Legal statutes in place for general Legislation adopted for general and higher   monitoring and more targeted and equitable
and higher education                            education (depends on resolution of Kosovo's funding. Standardized student assessments
                                                legal status)                                are also being developed in the central
                                                                                             Ministry of Education to begin the process of
                                                                                             monitoring qualitative progress. The new
                                                                                             Education Project is helping focus on system
                                                                                             performance indicators in terms of access,
                                                                                             enrollment and attainment in the system.
Decrease in proportion of public sector         50%                                          Donor financing has decreased by 70% since
revenue that comes from donor financing                                                      2000.
Decrease in public sector financing spent on
specialist services                                                                          The project has assisted the Department of
Decrease in proportion of physicians working                                                 Health and Social Welfare and its successor
in hospitals                                                                                 authority, the Ministry of Health (MOH) to set
                                                                                             the basis for development of an interim
                                                                                             sustainable and affordable model for the
                                                                                             financing of health care. The project has
                                                                                             supported the development of several
                                                                                             important analyses to be used in health
                                                                                             financing strategy development.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                 Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Municipal financial management pilots           Dissemination to other municipalities        An education funding system based on a per
completed for education and results                                                          student funding formula and devolution of
evaluated; mechanism extended to other                                                       ear-marked block grants for education to
municipalities.                                                                              Kosovo's 30 municipalities continues to
                                                                                             function, and was adopted as a method for
                                                                                             the preparation and justification of the
                                                                                             ministry's annual budget.
Legal status shifts from faculties to the       New legal statues adopted                    The new Higher Education Law and the new
University; new financial management                                                         university statute was adopted by the new
structure                                                                                    assembly and signed by UNMIK.


Sampling assessments available for math         Standardized assessment data published       The component activities have been
and literacy at select grades                                                                completed. Dissemination of the of the
                                                                                             results is being addressed.
Management information modules for              MIS modules implemented                      A new General Education Law has been
education statistics and education finance                                                   adopted by the Assembly. A municipal
developed and implemented at municipalities                                                  education governance manual is available to
and the center in general education and at                                                   municipalities and schools, providing detailed
the University of Kosovo                                                                     procedures and descriptions of roles and
                                                                                             responsibilities to promote implementation of
                                                                                             the new law.
Health and Social Welfare strategy paper        Adoption of the paper.                       An interim health care financing strategy has
adopted                                                                                      been developed with support from the project.




                                                                    - 14 -

HIF facility renovated and equipped, staffed Training activities completed.    The project supported the establishment of
trained, and activities initiated                                              the Health Care Commission Agency
                                                                               (HCCA) as a unit of MOH. HCCA will act as
                                                                               purchaser of services from hospitals and
                                                                               municipalities. A total of 10 MOH staff have
                                                                               attended courses at York University and the
                                                                               Flagship Program at Harvard. Short
                                                                               programs for key staff in all hospitals and
                                                                               municipalities have also been designed to
                                                                               help roll out the contracting process. These
                                                                               programs will be implemented in the coming
                                                                               months.
Restructuring implementation plan prepared   Adoption of Restructuring plan    Not completed
and adopted

Procurement documents presented to donors
2 region-wide household surveys on income    Survey's conducted.               The impact of the reforms are being
and expenditures conducted                                                     monitored on a systematic basis.

On-going social assessments conducted



Project disbursed and procedures and                                           Bank's guidelines and procedures are
guidelines followed                                                            followed.

1End of project
Note: Due to qualitative nature of the indicators, End of Project Projections were not entered into the PSR.




                                                                 - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                              US$ million    US$ million
1. Education                                                      1.96            2.25           120
2. Health and Social Welfare                                      2.62            2.07            74
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                                      0.26            0.03             8
4. Project Management                                             0.10            0.06            60

Total Baseline Cost                                               4.94            4.41
                        Total Project Costs                       4.94            4.41
                  Total Financing Required                        4.94            4.41
*Project management support actual expenditures are included into Monitoring

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                   2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                           0.40              0.00            0.03          0.00        0.43
                                  (0.40)            (0.00)          (0.03)         (0.00)     (0.43)
2. Goods                           0.00              0.00            0.62          0.00        0.62
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.62)         (0.00)     (0.62)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00            3.39          0.50        3.89
and Training                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (3.39)         (0.00)     (3.39)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                           0.40              0.00            4.04          0.50        4.94
                                  (0.40)            (0.00)          (4.04)         (0.00)     (4.44)




                                                - 16 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.40               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.40
                                          (0.40)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.40)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.40             0.00              0.40
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (0.40)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              3.61             0.00              3.61
  and Training                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.61)            (0.00)           (3.61)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.40               0.00              4.01             0.00              4.41
                                          (0.40)             (0.00)            (4.01)            (0.00)           (4.41)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Expenditure Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
 Expenditure Category              Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1-A: Goods for Part A -        0.48                                  0.33                               68.8
Education
1-B: Goods for Part B-         0.15                                  0.07                               46.7
Health
2-A: Works for Part A          0.03                                  0.00                                0.0
2-B: Works for Part B          0.40                                  0.40                               100.0
3-A: Consultant Services       1.46                                  1.92                               131.5
and Training for Part A
3-B: Consultant Services       1.56                                  1.60                               102.6
and Training for Part B
3-C: Consultant Services       0.36                                  0.09                               25.0
and Training for Parts C-
Monitoring and
Evaluation, and D - Project
Management




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project inputs were designed to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the education and health
services. Economic benefits from this work could not easily be calculated at this point in time, as there are
too many other factors preventing efficiency gains being made, even if policies are in place. Governance is
an issue in both the health and education services, with the majority of medical staff supplementing income
through private payments. In education , non transparency is also a factor as is the necessary social
capital to support local accountability and efficiency. However ( see section on outcomes) there is
substantial evidence that the government is pursuing policies which now firmly consider these factors and
the new law on health services and the Health Insurance Law, now under discussion in the Parliament,
should be the starting point for continued efforts in this regard. The long term gains from the project
should be considerable.




                                                     - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                          (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count             Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               12/21/1999                    1     Team Leader (1)



 Appraisal/Negotiation
               03/16/2000                    5     Education TL(1); Health
                                                   TL(1); Legal Counsel (1);
                                                   Economist (1); Health
                                                   Specialist (1)


 Supervision

               05/24/2001                     2    EDUCATION TL (1); HEALTH              S               S
                                                   TL (1)
               09/18/2001                     1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
               03/17/2002                     3    Education TL (1); Health TL (1);      S               S
                                                   Procurement Specialist (1)
               09/8/2002                      1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
               10/18/2003                     3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (1); CONSULTANT (1)
               12/11/2003                     1    Financial Management Sp.(1)           S               S
               04/29/2004                     2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                                   CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               11/1/04                       1     Education Specialist ( 1)             S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   39.4                             121
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                  98.6                             324
  ICR                                            5.5                             20
  Total                                       143.5                             465
Note: Appraisal/Negotiation costs are included in Identification/Preparation line




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                           Rating
   Macro policies                         H      SU     M      N      NA
   Sector Policies                        H      SU     M      N      NA
   Physical                               H      SU     M      N      NA
   Financial                              H      SU     M      N      NA
   Institutional Development              H      SU     M      N      NA
   Environmental                          H      SU     M      N      NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction             H      SU     M      N      NA
            Gender                        H      SU     M      N      NA
            Other (Please specify)        H      SU     M      N      NA
   Private sector development             H      SU     M      N      NA
   Public sector management               H      SU     M      N      NA
   Other (Please specify)                 H      SU     M      N      NA


The project had a modest effect on the development of macro level policies for financing the health and
education sectors. Its physical inputs were successful but limited. The effect on financing will come with
follow on activities and has so far been modest. A modest institutional development impact has taken place
due to high staff turnover in the post conflict period. Increased training at the end of the project increases
the likelihood of further impact in this field. The project has emphasized improvements in public/private
partnerships in health, and on overall public sector management.




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S      U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S      U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S      U       HU
Bank performance is rated overall satisfactory, but it has been noted in the review elsewhere that there was
a period of time when this was not the case. Quick changes in Task Managers, which is known to adversely
affect implementation and ownership affected the implementation of the health component. Overall,
strenuous efforts were made on the part of the Bank team to ensure positive outcomes and ensure
sustainability.
6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S      U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S      U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S      U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S      U       HU
Both the UNMIK and Kosovar counterparts performed well. The health components suffered during 2002
due to rapid changes in the MoH management.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Quality at Entry Assessment Binders 1 and 2
2. Conflict and Change in Kosovo: Impact on Institutions and Society ECSSD , September 2000
3. Appendices to Quarterly Management Report 2 and Final Report June 2004, HLSP Consulting SL
4. Final Report on "Developing a Capacity to Define Education Standards and Assess Performance" FTP
   International April 2003
5. Kosovo Health Sector Situation Report, January 2000
6. Technical Assistance for the Development of the University of Pristina/Kosovo, 1st Interim Progress
   Report presented to the World Bank and UNMIK June-September 2000
7. Aide Memoires, PSRs and BTOs for the life of the project
8. Poverty Assessment Kosovo
9. Conflict and Change in Kosovo - Impact on Institutions and Society ECSSD Working Paper No.31
   June 2001.




                                                - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR: Health Component

  UNMIK - KOSOVO
  PISG - MINISTRY OF HEALTH


  BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             FOR HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT, HEALTH COMPONENT
                                       Prishtina, November 15, 2004


  I. PROJECT DATA
  Responsible implementing agency: UNMIK
                                          PISG - Ministry of Health


                                                TF 023626
       Grant          Signed       Effective      Original    Extension      Revised     Reallocation
                                               Closing Date Approved Closing Date



          1               2             3            4            5              6            7
     TF 023626       March 20,         28         June 30,                   Not         Not available
                        2000       April,2000       2003     Not          available
                                                             available



  II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS

  Project Objective
  To improve the efficiency and equity of public financing for health services in Kosovo.


      More specifically, the Project aimed the following:


  (a) Provided technical assistance to design the main elements of health financing system;
  (b) The project looked at both, at public and private sources and uses of funds;
  (c) Improvement of national capacity for managing the health sector.


      Achievement of these objectives was addressed through:

  (a) Training and deployment of core Ministry staff and stakeholders;
  (b) Intended development of an environment that is supportive of planning health financing strategy;
  (c) Rehabilitation of MoH building;
  (d) Development of AI, on health financing matters;
  (e) Development of contractual agreements for PHC services;
  (f) Policies and interventions to influence development of health financing strategy.




                                                  - 23 -

Project Components
The project was structured into two main components, education and health.

Component 2: Health
The objective of this component was to improve the efficiency and equity of public financing for health
services in Kosovo.

    Sub-Component 2.1. Developing a strategy for financing

The component had the objective to develop an interim health financing strategy for the sector as well
as detailed implementation mechanisms for all of the functions of the system collecting revenue. In
addition, the annual consolidated health care budgets were expected to be developed and approved by
Government. The project also aimed to build capacity among policy makers to govern health financing
system.

    Sub-Component 2.1.1. Designing comprehensive health financing system

Assess alternative sources of revenues aimed to design detailed and econometric modeling of health
sector sources of revenue. The design was expected: (1) to take in consideration which groups are
eligible and which groups are exempted from payment taxes and co-payments; (2) to project effects on
the economy and labor market, (3) effects on household incomes, (4) and ethnic situation.
Designing co-payment system aimed to (1) increase the use of primary health care services in relation
to secondary care, (2) specify which groups are eligible and which groups are exempted form paying
co-payments; (3) be accompanied by first projections on revenues and use of types of services (4) be
accompanied by first projections on the 2000/2001 health budgets; (5) be accompanied by
recommendations on the collection and use of funds.
Designing a health benefit package in conformity with the health financing strategy, and following
detailed revenues sources and implementation of co-payment system benefit package was defined and
but not implemented. This package was expected to be accompanied with cost projections as well as
well as administrative burden and costs of introducing a health benefit package.
Designing cost effective resource allocation and provider payment mechanisms was expected (1) to
develop policies for distribution of health fund to different regions and providers; (2) specifying the
(financial) relationship between purchasers and individual providers and (3) creating payment
mechanisms.

         Sub-Component 2.1.2. Developing social welfare strategy

At the time when the project was developed, many NGOs and donors were investing in supporting
social welfare issues. Social protection was not considered as major priority by the WB, but many
donors and NGOs made major contributions in these issues; therefore, development of an overall social
protection strategy was considered necessary.

         Sub-Component 2.1.3. Implementing communications program on health sector reform

Aimed development and implementation of an information campaign that would provide essential
information and support health financing strategy by: (1) informing the general public and health care
providers about the goals and progress of the reforms; (2) using this information and targeted messages
to highlight the benefits and build support among key beneficiary groups. This component was
expected to implement a campaign strategy over the life of the project by running programs and



                                               - 24 -

advertisements on TV, radio and newspapers; and hosting seminars and events. It was also expected
that the impact of the campaign would be monitored by tracking pools.

         Sub component 2.2: Strengthening capacity of the Health Insurance Fund
Upgrading the housing and equipment/furniture for the Health Insurance Fund, this project
subcomponent aimed to upgrade the housing and equipment/furniture for the health insurance fund. It
was expected that the project would cover building repairs for the Health Insurance, Pension and other
funds that were developing at the time the project was developed. Main activities were planned limited
civil works and procurement and installation of computers and other technological equipment, and
furniture.
Developing the organizational and governance structure of the Health Insurance Fund, it was
expected that once the health financing strategy was clarified, this component would ensure that an
effective and efficient organizational and governance structure would be developed for health insurance
Fund. It was expected that this component would clarify on a charter and business plan of Health
Insurance Fund.
Training of Health Insurance Staff, it was expected that the project would support training of health
insurance staff in; (1) basic computer training for all staff and selected computer training for selected
staff; (2)management training for Fund's managers; (3) other training needs that arise, such as on-job
assistance to managerial and operational staff.

         Sub-component 2.3: Preparing an implementation plan for restructuring the health sector
This project component aimed to develop an implementation plan for restructuring the primary,
secondary and emergency health care services in Kosovo based on interim health policy guidelines.
This project sub-component included PHC and secondary care package.
PHC package aimed to define:
List of select and buildings for PHC centers;
Staff patterns need for each selected site;
Generic equipment list and costs for each site;
Typical protocols for PHC;
Training need assessment document;
Typical scripts for emergency advice;
Human resources plan;
Functional and operational program;
Space program;
Detailed plan for implementation.

Secondary care package aimed to define:
Service plan;
Staff patterns
Functional and operational program;
Space program;
Generic equipment list and costs for each site;
Training needs assessment document;
Detailed schedule for implementation.

Component 3: Monitoring and evaluation
         Regular reports, see Annex I

Component 4: Project management support


                                               - 25 -

         Aimed to support project procurement, building capacity of local staff in the areas relevant for
project management including and procurement

III. OUTPUTS BY PROJECT COMPONENTS


The Project has included inputs from main stakeholders through international and national
technical assistance as well as project management and administrative support.

The main aims of the project have been to:

1. Assist in the development and evaluation of an interim health care financing strategy.
2. Develop a model for planning and securing health sector funds.
3. Design and monitor the implementation of a co-payment system.
4. Identify priorities for public financing.
5. Design cost effective resource allocation and provider payment mechanisms.
6. Assist the health care commissioning agency to develop the organization and governance
structures.
7. Training and capacity building of the staff of the Health Care financing structure, the MoH
and the regional administrations.
8. Develop and implement PR & information activities.
9. Develop options for the private financing and private provision of health care in relation to
the public sector.
10. Develop a Health and finance information strategy.

Due to constant changes in the Kosovo health sector leadership, priorities within health

component of this project were revised.


 Sub - component 2.1.1: Developing a strategy for financing
Designing health financing system
The draft law approved by the Assembly defines that Health Insurance Fund (HIF) will become
operational on January 1st, 2005 and that the HIF will be an independent public institution with legal
status, rights and responsibilities. According to this Law, Health Insurance is to be compulsory for all
citizens that are employed, physical and juridical persons. This law also indicates that MOH will
continue the financing of basic health care, whereas Health Care Commissioning Agency (HCCA) will
be responsible for operational contractual agreements between MOH and health providers. The
government will be defining yearly list of basic care and HIF will be responsible to guarantee basic
care for all citizens and revise drug list according to MOH recommendations.

The IHSD report indicated that no necessary steps were undertaken in order to develop such Fund. The
IHSD report also recommended that the HCCA should be further developed focusing on information
systems, quality assurance and management capacities; Therefore, closing date for the grant was
extended until June 31,2004 and it was agreed that the project will:
1. help to consolidate health financing reforms developed and continue development of essential skills
and stakeholders' understanding in contracting, financial management, and reporting within the model
of a purchaser/provider split, and
2. set MOH's initiatives in financial information systems into the Health Care Financial Development
(HCFD) Strategy in future.


                                                  - 26 -

To achieve this aim, the Flagship Course offered an opportunity to analyze current situation and
address steps to be taken in order to achieve purchaser provider split, such as:
·   develop skills for contracting providers
·   improve Health Information to an operational system
It was also recognized that despite significant advantages (increasing efficiency), the purchaser
provider split is a long process.

The implementation process of the project was an excellent on job experience that was reflected in
Flagship Course discussions. This course improved the knowledge on health strategy in general and in
particular on health financing. The course also raised awareness on financial, administrative and
political risks to be considered, before implementing the social insurance.
The project contributed particularly in increasing knowledge on:
·   Purchaser provider split,
·   Importance of correct collection of the data according to HIS in Kosovo,
·   Negotiation skills among providers and HCCA staff as well as other relevant factors,
·   Definition of the minimal quality requirements, and
· Contracting

Sub-component 2.12.Developing social welfare strategy
This component was revised.

Sub-component 2.1.3. Implementing communications program on health sector reform
In order to implement communications program as prerequisite, the project has finalized the draft
health information strategy It was recognized that in order to implement such strategy basic
requirements in terms of capital, finance manpower activity and quality data systems should be
defined. It is also necessary to integrate the various initiatives underway in the finance areas.
The project succeeded in gathering main stakeholders in different seminars and courses, initiating
valuable discussions on health financing.. The newsletter on Health Financing was also distributed
among MoH and main health institutions staff. Those activities set bases for implementation of
communications program on health sector health financing reform to the general public.

Sub-component 2.2: Developing Strengthening capacity of Health Insurance Fund
Following the IHSD recommendations HCCA would give arise to purchaser provider split or
governance financed health care system, depending on Kosovo economic growth.
Irrelevant of the health care financing mechanism, it was recognized that developing the
concept of a purchaser provider split within the health care market is necessary in order to
increase efficiency. The main unit to lead forward this process has been established Health
Care Commissioning agency (HCCA) as purchaser.
At present this is a unit sitting within the MoH, responsible for contracting for health services
with heath care providers. It is expected that this agency would evolve into an independent
purchaser. According to resources available those functions could be decentralized in the
future.

Sub-component 2.3: Preparing implementation plan for restructuring health sector
In order to enable maximal use of the outputs delivered by the project in close collaboration with
NGOs and other agencies, the project has shown flexibility in providing valuable technical assistance in
areas that maximize the outputs provided by other NGOs and agencies. This areas were:


                                                - 27 -

Private sector analyses
Review of Kosovo Health Law
Review of Private Practice Health Law

Component 3: Monitoring and evaluation
See attached Annex I.

Component 4: Project management support
         Supported project procurement, building capacity of local staff in the areas relevant for project
management and procurement

IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

Although project has achieved outputs (see list of outputs attached Annex I) there have been some
barriers to implement health financing reforms project.
Immediately after the war international community and Kosovar counterparts initiated reconstruction
and development of health sector. This has been characterized with return of Kosovar leadership and
management positions as well as influx and withdrawal of humanitarian and development agencies.
During this period UNMIK has downsized its operations and the responsibilities were handed over to
local leadership and management. The situation was reflected in health sector through evolution of
governance structures as following:
Department of Health (June 1999 ­ January 2000)
Department of Health and Social Welfare (February 2000 ­ October 2001)
Department of Health Environment and Spatial Planning (November 2001 ­ February 2002)
Ministry of Health (March 2002 at present)
This rate of change has created pressure on the MoH and its capacity to set sustainable policy and
manage effectively health system.
One of the major barriers to implementation of financing component is lack of project ownership
including its process and concept. The influx and withdrawal of MOH capacities has created
sometimes discrepancy between project outputs and absorption capacities within MoH; However, the
project succeeded to develop capacities that now are in leading positions in MOH.

V. BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Borrower performance during project could be related satisfactory. The project preparation could be
rated as satisfactory; particularly PIO, representatives of the previous Health Insurance Fund and
international community were extremely supportive in the project design and its components under the
guidance of the WB.
Project performance could be divided into two phases:
May 2000 ­ June 2003 and July 2003 ­ June 2004.
The first phase of the project delivered most of the outputs mentioned in the main project document
revised to local needs and it was implemented at best within resources available.
The second phase of the project was particularly important as it paid attention to consolidation of
knowledge and assistance gained in order to achieve sustainable health care financing in Kosovo.

VI. BANK PERFORMANCE

Bank performance during project supervision could be rated as Highly Satisfactory. The project was
supervised by Bank staff and consultants located at Headquarters in Washington and in the Prishtina


                                              - 28 -

Resident Mission. During supervision missions of preparatory and initial implementation phase and
especially last year Bank staff thoroughly reviewed and carefully analyzed all issues that appeared in
the implementation of certain activities and provided advice for overcoming them.
Bank staff coordinated well with other organizations and donors, especially with EAR, DFID and other
donors involved in health sector development; moreover, considered national professional inputs
especially during project preparation and project extension phase.

VII. LESSONS LEARNED

Implementation strategy: It is crucial to have a well developed implementation strategy, using best
international experiences and practices, adapted to local circumstances, before project implementation
begins.

Achievement of political consensus: It is an ultimate condition that political consensus and
commitment to health care reform at central level as well as local levels are achieved at the highest
possible level. It is absolutely necessary to have a project unit within MoH that would ensure
sustainability and continuity of the project. This specially applies to Kosovo where governance
experienced constant change.

Contractual obligations: Obligations towards project implementation between the parties must be
clearly defined and signed through a contract.

Strong leadership: Strong and creative leadership at the level of implementing agencies and national
counterparts is one of the key elements for the success of project implementation.

Adequate and strong management and promotion: This is, definitely, an essential characteristic of a
successful health care reform "story" that we learned during implementation of the Project in Kosovo.
Health financing component is an excellent example.

Communication: It is of invaluable significance to promote the reform processes through
marketing/media      campaign    whereby   lower   governance      levels (district-decentralization  and
municipal-devolution level) health professionals and the general public can learn and benefit a lot.

VIII. CONCLUSION

Education and Health Project had the aim of supporting the development of a viable health system with
focus on sustainable health care financing. The Project provided support for the initial steps in
establishment of HCCA.         Considering specific institutional    circumstances in Kosovo and the
complexity of health financing mechanisms in a post-conflict environment, based on available data and
analysis of project outputs/outcomes and achievements, the project has made initial valuable
contribution to the development and implementation of health system financing reform.
Continuation of the project is of the paramount importance for implementation of the health sector
reforms in Kosovo initiated in 1999. Considering valuable project outputs to date continuation of the
project would ensure MOH desire for deeper accomplishments in health financing focusing on specific
set of activities, ensuring that both human and financial resources are consistent with the realistic and
acceptable implementation strategy.




                                                - 29 -

Annex I


World Bank HCFD Kosovo
CN: TF023626
Annex 1: HCFD Project Outputs According to HLSP

Description

Pay within four weeks from contract signing date, upon submission of
Bank Guarantee
First Status Report
Draft Health Sector of Sources Model

2001 Annual Status Report & 2002 Approved Activity

HCCA set up and Staff Training

Review of Copayment and design of future model

Implementation of Primary and Secondary care Level contracting pilots

Private Sector Analysis and Model

Analysis of Priorities for Public Financing (Basic Care Package)

March 2002 Quarterly Status Report & Next Quarter Approved Activity
Plan

June 2002 Quarterly Status Report & Next Quarter Approved Activity
Plan

Sept. 2002 Quarterly Status Report and Next Quarter Approved Activity
Plan
Dec.2002 Quarterly Status Report & Next Quarter Approved Activity
Plan
Approval of the final report and the review and evaluation of project and
roll out plan (March 2003)
On commencement of Activities
Draft HIS Strategy
Draft Planning & Management Report
3 month Status Report
6 month Status Report
Training Needs Analysis
Final Report




                                                   - 30 -

- 31 -

