Page  1
April 12, 2001
Ms. Flaka Surroi,
Community Development Fund
Rruga Dukagjin 68
Prishtina
Kosovo
Re:
Dutch Grant for Community Development Fund Project 
Grant Number TF 024253                                               
Dear Ms. Surroi:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA's  agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands 
Minister for Development Cooperation, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of four million United States dollars ($4,000,000) (the Grant) to Community 
Development Fund (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director and Regional Coordinator for South-East Europe
Europe and Central Asia
AGREED:
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ Flaka Surroi
Executive Director
Date:
4/18/2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of  the  Grant are to: (a) improve the access and quality of 
community infrastructure and services  in selected poor and war-affected communities 
in Kosovo; and (b) support institutional capacity-building at the municipal and 
community level through the promotion of  public participation and sound resource 
management  (the Project),  as related to the IDA-funded ongoing Community Development 
Fund Project governed by the Trust Fund Agreement between the Recipient and IDA 
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo), dated  December 21, 2000 (the 
Trust Fund Agreement).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant are as 
described in Schedule 2 to the Trust Fund Agreement. 
Page  2
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of Kosovo for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA  
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services, 
goods and work required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 3 to the 
Trust Fund Agreement.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the    % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-Grants for
   3,359,000
100%
subprojects
(2)
Consultants
     265,000
100%
services, in-
cluding train-
ing
(3)
Operating Costs
     376,000
100%
TOTAL
   4,000,000
For the purpose of the table above, the  term "Operating Costs" means the incremental 
expenses incurred by CDF on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs. 
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; 
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of  Kosovo; 
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied from such territories; or 
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to IDA's  knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
Page  3
United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after  May 31, 2002, 
or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing 
Date). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by IDA within four months after the
Closing Date, after which time any amount 
of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and
(c)
If, in IDA's  opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by the Bank. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of 
the Recipient by the Executive Director or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request. Authenticated specimen signatures of the 
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount 
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. IDA 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on 
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for works costing less 
than $85,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first 3 contracts awarded on 
the basis of national competitive bidding procedures described in Part C.1 of Section 
I of Schedule 3 to the Trust Fund Agreement, and the first 5 contracts awarded on the 
basis of minor works procedures described in Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 3 to 
the Trust Fund Agreement; (b) contracts for goods costing less than $40,000 equivalent 
each, with the exception of the first 3 contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures described in Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 3 to the Trust Fund 
Agreement; (c) payments made by CDF on account of Sub-Grants, not exceeding $85,000 
equivalent each; (d) contracts for services of consulting firms costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each (e) contracts for services of individual consultants costing 
less than $25,000 equivalent each; and (f) Operating Costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.   IDA  at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
 To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in  Euro (EUR) a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Trust Fund Agreement; provided however that for the purpose of  this Grant,  the 
Authorized Allocation  shall  mean an amount equivalent to EUR 1,300,000.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to  IDA  adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
Page  4
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing, namely that the Recipient has failed to comply 
with any of its obligations herein specified. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA  within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any 
time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project.
