Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25624
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29770)
ONA
CREDrr
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.5 MILLION (US$ 24.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE KINGDOM OF
NEPAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
March 24, 2003
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 20, 2003)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupee
NRs I = US$ 0.0132
US$ 1 = NRs 75.77
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APP           Agricultural Prospective Plan
BUP           Bottom-up-Planning
CATC          Central Agricultural Training Center
DAO           District Agricultural Office
DADO          District Agricultural Development Officer
DFID          Department for International Development (UK)
DOA           Department of Agriculture
ED            Executive Director (NARC)
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
HMGN          His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICR           lmplementation Completion Repoot
MOAC          Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MTR           Mid-term Review
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
NARC          Nepal Agricultural Research Council
NARDF         National Agricultural Research Development Fund
NGO           Non Govermment Organization
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
RATC          Regional Agricultural Training Center
RARS          Regional Agricultural Research Station
RTWG          Regional Technical Working Group
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director    Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Director   Constance Bemard
Task Team Leader     Robert Epworth



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Pnncipal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                8
6. Sustainability                                                                    9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    10
8 Lessons Leamed                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                 11
10. Additional Information                                                          12
Annex I Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               21
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report                                               23






| Project ID: P048026                                     Project Name AGRI RES & EXTENSION
Team Leader. Robert S. Epworth                            TL Unit* SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date. March 24, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: AGRI RES & EXTENSION                           L/C/TFNumber: IDA-29770
Country/Department: NEPAL                                                Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (100%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:    10/22/1996                            Effective  11/25/1997         11/25/1997
Appraisal:  02/13/1997                                MTR: 12/31/1999           02/07/2000
Approval:  08/26/1997                              Closing. 09/30/2002          09/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency  Kingdom of Nepal/Ministry of Agriculture & Cooperatives (Dept of Agriculture);
Kingdom of Nepal/Nepal Agricultural Research Council
Other Partners
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice Piesident.      Mieko Nishimizu                           Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager      Kenichi Ohashi                            Joe Manickavasagam
Sector Manager        Constance A. Bernard                      Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:  Robert Epworth                            Gallus Mukami
ICR Primary Author:   Charles Bevan (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact M
BankPerformance U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to assist His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) improve the management
and capacity of agricultural research and extension services by (a) developing location-specific agncultural
technology on the basis of close consultation with farmers; and (b) improving the technology delivery system. The
objective addressed a recognized need to introduce substantial institutional reform in both services, although it
implied that better management would result from improving specific technology development and dissemination
activities, whereas logically better performance in these areas should flow from better management. As they were
written, the objectives tended to be more output than outcome based, focusing on technology generation and
dissemination as ends rather than as means; whereas aiming to increases productivity and improve farm incomes
might have been more appropriate goals.
Nevertheless, the intended thrust of the project objective was clear and conformed broadly with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No 15508-NEP), HMGN's 9th Five Year Plan and the then new Agricultural
Perspective Plan (APP), all of which identified agriculture as the lead sector in alleviating rural poverty - with the
generation and dissemination of agricultural technology playing an integral role in raising agricultural
productivity.
3.2 Revised Objective.
The mid-term review (MTR) in February 2000 considered that the project objective was still relevant, and provided
that immediate remedial project management action was taken, improving the timeliness and effectiveness
technology transfer could be substantially achieved in the project districts in the limited remaining project period;
although it was recognized that extrapolation to non-project districts would take more time and additional external
financial support. Although development of substantial location specific technology of practical significance to
farmers was not expected to be fully achieved, because of the limited time available, it was anticipated that at least
the research system and operating procedures to do this should be in place and functional by the end of the project.
A partial Credit cancellation of $5 3m was made at that time, based on the revised implementation plan.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two components: agricultural research and extension service. The research component
(US$16.2m) was to (a) strengthen research institutions by improving the management information systems,
priority setting, monitoring and evaluation, (b) support human resource development, through training and the
introduction of a reward system based on results and performance, (c) expand on-farm adaptive research
responsive to farmers' needs, and (d) provide facilities, equipment and working capital. The extension component
(US$14.3m) would strengthen the extension service by (a) intensifying decentralization to grassroots level and
strengthening farmer self-help groups, (b) developing human capital by training and implementing a reward
system based on results and performance (c) provision of facilities, equipment and working capital.
The components and sub-components were, in principle, well related to achieving the project objective. This
project was a successor to two earlier IDA funded agricultural support services projects (Agricultural Extension
and Research Project Cr. 1100 and Agricultural Extension Project Cr. 1570) and the USAID funded Agricultural
Technology Support Project and DFID funded Hill Agricultural Research Project. However, experience from these
projects, especially with regard to the financial, personnel, and general management capacities of the
implementing agencies, was not taken into account adequately during project preparation. Components activities
were broad ranging, but were not well defined and did not specify clear implementation milestones by which
performance could be judged; and in the Nepal context, required many prerequisite institutional and procedural
reforms in a relatively short period of time.
3.4 Revised Components:
At the MTR, the project was not re-structured, but rather greater clarity of design and focus was given to the
existing components/activities. This redefinition of activities aimed to provide a clearer understanding of the
institutional and procedural reforms needed, together with achievement targets, and to give a practical guide to
implementation procedures. A clear statement of outcome, activity, and output indicators was incorporated into a
- 2 -



new logical framework - designed through a series of stakeholder workshops led by the two implementing
agencies, the Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the Nepal Agricultural Research Council (NARC). These
were closely related to the project objective, and were considered to be within the implementation capacity of each
agency, provided ownership and commitment of the senior mangers expressed at the time of the MTR was
maintained.
The Agricultural Research Component was structured into the following clearly identifiable sub-components.
* Modernising and reforming NARC: (a) Clarification of the NARC structure; (b) Human resource
development; (c) Consolidation of resources around high priorities, (d) Monitonng and evaluation of research;
(e) Information technology and management information systems; and (f) Enhanced collaboration with other
R&D providers.
* Strengthening Management and Systems Research at regional and farm level: (a) Relocation of staff
to Regional Stations; (b) New outreach policy and guidelines for on-farm research; (c) More systematic
discussion and pnontization of the research and extension agenda in Regional Technical Working Groups
(RTWG); (d) Improved research-extension linkages at the national and regional levels; and (e) Adoption of
impact and feedback studies of technologies generated by NARC.
* Beyond NARC toward a National Agricultural Research Policy and Fund- (a) Formulation of a
national agricultural research policy, (b) Decision on where and how to establish a National Agncultural
Research and Development Fund (NARDF).
The Extension Services Component was structured into the following sub-components:
* Modernization of Public Extension Services (a) Improvement of district infrastructure (agricultural
service centers and sub-centres), communications; and projectization of district programs (i e. description of
discrete extension interventions based on clear objectives and related actions); (b) Strengthening support
programs (training, mass media, M&E, technical support);(c) Modermization of Regional and Central
Agncultural Training Center (R/CATC) curricula; (d) Formulation of an up-dated National Extension
Strategy; and (e) Improving financial management systems and the introduction of an MIS system.
* Promotion of Partnerships: (a) Strengthening process of group formation; (b) Training of private
extension providers; (c) Piloting of a program of joint financing with private extension providers.
* Decentralizing Extension Services: (a) Development of more effective 'Bottom-up' planning and prionty
setting; (b) Piloting decentralization under Decentralization Act.
* Human Resources Development: (a) Orientation of all staff in new Extension Strategy; (b) Provision of
degree and in-service training; (c) Development of distnct based databases; and (d) Study of human resource
needs. This sub-component also included some provision for the Institute of Agricultural and Animal Sciences
(IAAS) to upgrade post-graduate computer facilities; and scholarships for eight post-graduate students.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time the project was appraised, the new Project Appraisal Document (PAD) format had just been
introduced The PAD covered the essential features and expenditure of the project, with an Implementation
Volume presented as an annex. However, in this case, the latter was more a technical review of research and
extension in developing economies and proposed future areas of research focus in Nepal. Implementation
arrangements and detailed activities for each component were to be detennined by DOA and NARC once the
project had commenced, with technical assistance coming from consultants appointed under the project. To oversee
project implementation there was to be an inter-ministerial Steering Committee, assisted by a Technical Advisory
sub-Committee. Within the MOAC a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), headed by a Project Coordinator was to be
established.
-3 -



The project design incorporated past experience, especially from extension projects, by emphasizing
decentralization; strengthening of research/extension linkages; and adoption of a participatory approach by
involving farmer groups. It also provided flexibility in design by not being overly prescriptive. But in doing so, it
made implementation success overly dependent on the early provision of substantive amounts of international and
national technical assistance - which in the end did not eventuate for some time. The design process did not fully
involve all stakeholders, nor take into consideration some of the three earlier preparation studies undertaken by
FAO/CP. It also underestimated the nsks associated with project implementation, especially the delay in TA
recruitment and the likelihood of frequent senior staff changes in implementing agencies - although the extreme
situation at NARC could hardly have been anticipated. Little was leamt also from the experiences of earlier
projects that had performed poorly because of a failure of steering committees to meet regularly and function
effectively. After more than seven years in the making, final preparation and appraisal appears to have been
rushed, moving ahead of the borrower's ownership of new concepts such as decentralized planning and
implementation, and public-private partnerships in service delivery. This ownership came eventually, but only
later in the implementation period.
Overall the Quality at Entry is therefore rated as unsatisfactory, because of the weak borrower ownership of some
of the key concepts of the project at that time; over-dependence on timely provision of substantial techmcal
assistance; and inadequate higher-level coordination and monitoring arrangements. This resulted in a slow project
start-up, as implementing agencies were initially unsure of precisely what they were supposed to be doing. In this
vacuum, by default, the PCU itself started implementing the project, rather than providing administrative and
coordination support to the two implementing agencies, DOA and NARC, as it was set up to do.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite the implementation difficulties, especially in the first two years of the project, some progress has been
made towards achieving a number of important outcomes and outputs, following a notable improvement in
implementation pace in the latter stages of the project. During this time, a number of achievements were made: (a)
in research, the NARC 2020 Vision was finalized and approved, and management of the research program at the
regional level started improve, including better priontization and liaison with extension and farmers; (b) in
extension, the introduction of bottom-up planning, expansion of partnerships and contracting out of some
extension activities, and initiating the projectization of district work programs; and (c) in both components,
substantial higher level training of scientific and technical staff. However, the greatly improved implementation
pace after the MTR faltered towards the end of the project, due partly to senior staff changes (particularly at
NARC), and partly to the worsening security situation in the final ten months, which greatly constrained the ability
to do fieldwork. Significantly, in the last year of implementation, the Project Management Committee established
at the MTR hardly met, and there have continued to be changes in NARC leadership (six Executive Directors
during the project period, with many holding the post in an acting capacity for long periods).
Compared to what was anticipated at the time of the MTR, NARC has been unable to fully institutionalize the
necessary organizational and procedural reforms needed to meet the ultimate goal of developing new location
specific agricultural technology; while the activities of the extension component have not yet led to the widespread
adoption of improved service delivery mechanisms. The project has therefore only partially met the reform targets
which were fundamental to achieving the objective of improving the management and capacity of agricultural
research and extension services, and as a result, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. To a considerable
extent these shortfalls in achievement can be also attributed to the fact that institutional reform within the public
sector always takes time, especially if it is expected that this will be generated to some extent from within the
organization. In the end there was just not enough time left in the second half of the project to institutionalize
many of the new initiatives coming from the MTR. There is every reason to believe, however, that if funds had
been available and the field security situation had improved to make an extension of the project possible, then the
overall achievement of project objective might eventually have been satisfactory.
- 4 -



4.2 Outputs by components 
Research. A review of the baseline output indicators agreed at the MTR indicates that, although a number of
important new initiatives were started and made early progress, at the end of the project, only a limited number of
the key performance indicator have been achieved in a substantive and sustainable way. Overall the research
component is therefore rated as unsatisfactory.
*   Modernization and NARC Reform. There has been important reform of the NARC structure, with
policy development and research coordination now formally separated from research implementation. The
number of research projects being undertaken has been rationalized and the program consolidated,  a
successful proactive search for new funding sources for high priority topics has been undertaken; and
there has been an increase in collaborative R&D activities with NGOs and the private sector. A
monitoring and evaluation division has been established, although the systems by which it will operate is
still to be developed and institutionalized. A computerized accounting system has been introduced, but is
not yet operative at all NARC stations. Databases for a National Budget Management System and
Personnel Management Information System, have recently been established at the headquarters, but are
not yet available or accessible elsewhere. However, most of the institutional strengthening has been only
partially implemented, and has therefore not been fully tested, and modified as necessary. A significant
amount of short term local training within NARC has been undertaken, and postgraduate training was
provided to a substantial number of scientists (67 MSc and 13 PhD). Most have completed their studies,
but a significant number remain uncompleted at project end because of late approval of scholarships.
Although the process of staff promotions was restarted in the final months of the project, this was not
completed and a result, there has been no promotions of scientists for more than six years. There has also
been very limited (39) reduction in the numbers of support staff.
*   Strengthening Regional Agricultural Research Management and Linkages. There has been some
improvement in an integrated multi-disciplinary approach to outreach programs at Regional Agncultural
Research Stations (RARS) There has been significant improvement in the systematic discussion and
prioritization of research.in the regions, with evidence that some of these new programs are being driven
by the farmers' agenda. The operation of Regional Technology Working Groups (RTWG) has improved
significantly and now provides an effective forum where staff from all agencies involved in technology
development and dissemination can exchange ideas. There has also been some improvement to RARS
facilities in the Terai (notably renovation of accommodation and the construction of new office buildings).
None of the NARC vacant positions has been filled, so as to strengthen the core group of scientists and
technical staff in place at Regional Agricultural Research Stations; and although some initial transfers
were made, in the end, there has been no net redeployment of scientists from Kathmandu (Khumultar) to
priority programs based at the regional research stations. As a result no RARS have reached the targets of
scientific staff set at the MTR. Inability to introduce incentives in a public sector environment to
encourage scientists to live and work in the regions suggests that these targets will not be reached, at least
not in short run.
* Beyond NARC: National Agricultural Research Policy and National Agricultural Research
Development Fund (NARDF). The NARC Vision 2021 has been produced and approved, although it
still requires final endorsement by the Cabinet. Plans for implementing the Vision, which defines
NARC's future role in the wider national research system vis a vis other players such as universities and
the pnvate sector (and is widely considered to be a good document) are under preparation, but much more
time is needed to complete the work  In a parallel but interlinked activity funded by DFID, a decision in
principle to establish a NARD Fund has been taken by the government, but the final modus operandi is
still to be worked out.
Extension Services. Many new initiatives have been started since the MTR, but these are far from being
sustainably institutionalized. The review (Appendix 3) of Farmer Groups undertaken by the ICR mission confirms
- 5 -



that anticipated extension service reforms still have some way to go before they can be said to be fully incorporated
into regular activities throughout the country. In particular most farmers at this point in time continue to see the
DOA extension service as a possible source of subsidized inputs, rather than as a source of knowledge. Often input
suppliers and traders are seen as the most credible source of technical knowledge. Overall, the extension
component is therefore rated as unsatisfactory.
o   Modernization of the Public Extension Service: The project has resulted in improvement of DOA
infrastructure at the district level, with numerous agricultural service centers and subcenters rehabilitated
and two new Distnct HQ buildings constructed. The concept of projectization introduced at the MTR
(development of district extension programs in discrete projects designed to address specific local
problems, and with performance indicators built-in) was to be started in five districts on a pilot basis. But
MOA quickly saw this as a more transparent management tool which tied financial inputs with Gutputs
and impact, and before the pilot could be tested fully, enthusiastically decided to adopt the approach first
in all 23 project districts, then expanded it to all 75 districts of Nepal. This was too fast, and as might be
expected in the start-up year, in most distncts the process has been used to simply disaggregate the
on-going district program into smaller discrete activities. This means that most of the projectization
continues to be applied to the Pocket Package Programs, which focus on providing mini-kits and other
subsidized inputs to crops with high potential in limited geographical areas. The initial prioritization
proformas and procedures are considered by most Distnct staff to be too complicated, and require
refinement to enable them to be used effectively throughout the system. With an initiative such as this, it
was always expected that quality would improve greatly as more annual planning and implementation
cycles were completed. Given the high level interest in this initiative, there is good reason to believe that
had the project been extended, that this projecttzation process would have gone on to become an effective,
practical extension management tool.
o   The distnbution of extension materials (calendars, monthly agricultural bulletin etc) has expanded
greatly, particularly in the last year of the project. Preliminary attempts have been made to reform and
expand the RATC/CATC curricula to cater for the new training needs of extension staff, rather than
providing basic technical training (much of it directly to farmers) as it did in the past. A number of policy
related documents and guidelines (e.g. project formulation, forming partnerships, M&E procedures,
projectization and contracting-out) have been prepared, but have yet to be consolidated in to a new
National Extension Strategy - although a stakeholder workshop was held in Kathmandu in September
2002 to discuss the strategy . Financial management of the project, especially at field level, has been a
chronic problem throughout, although it was exacerbated late in the project by the wholesale transfer of
accounting staff by HMGN and the deteriorating secunty problem in the field, which obstructed planned
training programs to address the accounting skills problem. Development of both an M& E system and
MIS has been very slow, although a start was made on these in the final month of the project, with the
support of some effective technical assistance.
o   Promotion of Partnerships. There has been some increase in the number of groups formed by DADOs,
but the survival rate beyond the first year of establishment has been a problem. There has been some
development of partnerships with groups formed by other organizations, although it seems that pnvate
organizations are reluctant to enter into formal partnership agreements with District Agricultural Offices
(DAOs), especially those involving joint financing. An interesting initiative has been taken up with the
agro-vet shop operators, where farmers get ad hoc advise when agncultural chemical and vetennary
products are purchased. This involved workshops on environmental health issues, which later evolved
towards more general extension advice.
o   Decentralizing Extension Services. A start has been made in training field staff in Bottom-Up-Planning
(BUP) processes, using problem census/problem solving techniques, although many field staff are not yet
fully conversant with the use of this technique. Although not an original project activity, in response to
HMGN's announced intention to decentralize agncultural extension, as one of the first five government
departments to start, a limited decentralization pilot was introduced at the MTR. However, in the end,
- 6 -



delays by the government in finalizing the arrangements for decentralization senously inhibited the
piloting of this activity. It was only in April 2002 the Government finally confirmed that agncultural
extension would be decentralized, and although planning had started, by then it was too late under the
project for MOAC to work out detailed arrangements and pilot these with District Development
Committees.
*    Human Resources Development. Most DOA staff have received some training in the key aspects of the
new extension strategy (e.g. projectization, BUP, and partnerships). In addition, over 6000 short
in-service courses have been provided and 115 short courses overseas were completed. Significant higher
level training has also been done. Three DOA staff have undertaken PhD degrees, 53 have either
completed or are completing M.Sc degrees, and 28 have completed B.Sc degrees, either regionally or in
Nepal Eight members of staff of IAAS also received post-graduate training.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return
Not applicable
At appraisal, ex-ante calculations projected a project ERR of 51% and 70%, depending on partial or full
implementation of the APP In view of the delays in project implementation and subsequent inability to fully
achieve many of the basic project objectives, it is not possible to attribute any change in agncultural productivity at
this early stage to project interventions. Under the circumstances, it was considered that no purpose would be
served by attempting to recalculate the ERR. It is interesting to note, however, that agricultural production and
productivity in Nepal has increased during the project period. From a situation of being a net importer for most of
the 1990s, Nepal had a surplus of just under 70,000 MT of rice in 1999/2000 According to DOA figures, in the
project districts the productivity of paddy increased from about 3.35 mt/ha to 3.7 mt/ha during the project life;
while the average yield of wheat increased from 2.35 mt/ha to 2.67 mt/ha, maize from 2.35 mt/ha to 2.82 mt/ha,
vegetables from 10.9 mt/ha to 12.87 mt/ha and potatoes from 10.6 to 14.99 mt/ha. These gains are claimed by
DOA to be mainly due to wider adoption of new technologies. Allied reasons for this could also be that this is the
result of the liberalization of the fertilizer market, and the fact that many farmers appear to be responding to
opportunities presented by freer input and output markets.
4 4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated at Appraisal
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Perhaps the major impact of the project has been the significant change in the mindset of management and senior
staff of both DOA and NARC as to how their operations can be conducted more efficiently and effectively; and to
the importance of developing partnerships with other interested parties in the research and extension field. From
this, the foundations for reform have been laid in a number of important institutional and operational areas.
Within the DOA, a good start has been made on changing the way business is done (e.g. projectization; bottom up
planning; involvement of farmers groups). Similarly within NARC there have been important policy and
management changes (e g. finalization of the Vision document; fewer, better prepared research projects;
partnerships with other researchers; improved effectiveness of RTWGs)  There is also much better linkage
between the two agencies and a genuine recognition of the synergistic benefits from cooperation. Both agencies
now also recognize the important role that can be played by the private sector and NGOs in both extension and
research. In some cases, such as in the Nawal Parasi district, close cooperation between DOA and NARC is
attributed to a considerable extent to support from the Distnct Development Committee - an example of
decentralization starting to have a positive effect on service delivery. But many of the reforms are at an early stage,
and others have yet to really begun in earnest (e.g. reform of CentraURegional Agncultural Training Centers
training programs, or change in RARS research programs). And what is not clear is whether the reforms will be
sustained after the project resources are no longer available. Overall the achievement of the institutional reform
aspect of the project is therefore considered, at this stage, to have made a positive but limited contnbution to
improving the ability of implementing agencies to make more effective use of their human and financial resources
in providing a better service to farmers Institutional development impact is therefore rated as moderate.
- 7 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The principal factor outside the control of either the government or the implementing agencies was the
detenorating secunty situation in much of the country. This has severely restricted access and freedom of
movement in many districts. It has also had an indirect effect through the curtailment of resources available for
regular government programs. A second important factor was the fluid political situation in Nepal during the
project penod, with ten changes of government over the past seven years, including three since the MTR in early
2000.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Frequent changes of leadership of implementing agencies, particularly NARC, had a detrimental effect on the
project; as did the inability of government to allow and encourage redundancies and staff transfer dictated by basic
business needs of implementing agencies. Delays also arose at times from slow release of counterpartlHMGN
funds. Indecision on TA by MOAC was in part responsible for delaying recruitment of the initial consultants in a
properly scheduled way, which resulted in serious delays in project start-up activities.
5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A major issue affecting implementing was the failure of both DOA and NARC to take ownership of their respective
components in the initial years of the project. It was not until late 1999 that both became proactive, contributing
fully to the MTR process in early 2000 and beyond. But by that stage, effectively two years of implementation had
been lost. Frequent changes/redeployment of staff in both implementing agencies also resulted in serious delays to
implementation and even in some cases (e.g. staff transfers to regional stations and then later reversing the
decision and posting them back to Khumultar) to reform decisions being reversed.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost at appraisal was US$30.5 million, of which US$6.2 million equivalent was to be financed by
HMGN and US$24.3 million equivalent (SDR 17.5 million) would come from the IDA Credit. The bulk of the
Credit (US$11.1 million) was to be used for consultancies, implementation support and training for capacity
building The other main project expenditure categones in order of magnitude were goods (equipment and
vehicles), incremental operating costs and civil works. Disbursement in the early years of the project was much
lower than anticipated, and therefore at the MTR, the Credit was revised to SDR 13.5 million, with US$5.3 million
equivalent (SDR 4.0 million) being cancelled, based on the revised implementation schedule and reduced estimated
project costs of US$ 24.6 million. Some reallocations between disbursement categories was also done at this time,
with a decrease in the allocation for consultancies and training, and a small increase in expenditure on civil works
and incremental operating costs.  At Credit closing total project costs were estimated at US$ 23.8 million, or
96% of the MTR cost projection. Final Credit disbursements stand at US$ 17.59 million (SDR 13.39 million),
equivalent to more than 99% of the revised Credit of US$ 17.75 million - leaving only US$ 0.15 million to be
cancelled.
In terms of actual expenditure, consultancies and training exceed MTR estimates by 50 %, whilst expenditure on
works, and goods were 80% of the MTR estimates and operational expenditure was 94%. Cost over-runs in the
former category relate mainly to training, rather than consultancies: in-country training of staff of DOA and
NARC along with NGOs and farmers workshops; and also additional un-costed higher level training, especially for
staff of the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences (IAAS).
This was a pre-LACI project and hence no formal financial assessment was conducted. A project specific
Accounts Manual in local language was produced in the first year, and this manual was disseminated to all cost
centers and training was also provided But transfer of accounts staff is a common, generic problem in Nepal, and
the necessary follow-up dissemination and training by the PCU did not take place effectively. In most of the Bank
implementation reviews, financial management advice was provided to address the obvious weaknesses, but the
- 8 -



response of the PCU was not adequate and financial management remained unsatisfactory throughout
implementation. Issues that contnbuted to poor performance were: (a) frequent change of accounting staff and
lack of sufficient skills to manage project accounts; (b) insufficient coordination between the PCU and NARC on
matters related to financial information flow, (c) absence of an effective system to monitor field-based cost centers
and insufficient supervision visits to field cost centers by PCU accounting staff, (d) lack of a functioning
information system to enable retrieval of management information including a proper SOE tracking system, and
(e) lack of training of distnct accounting staff. Towards the end of the project, the PCU staff made special efforts
to collect information from cost centers and submit all outstanding claims, which led to the smooth closure of the
Credit: Many of the problems identified then could have been resolved earlier if the project management had
shown a strong commitment to improved financial management; if implementation had not affected by frequent
changes of staff; and if the PCU had played a more dominant role in monitoring, training the staff of cost centers
and in maintaining the system as envisaged in the Accounts Manual. Audit'reports, in general, were received on
time with only a few delays. Auditors had noted weak internal controls which included lack of maintaining certain
ledgers and an asset register. Most audit opinions were unqualified, but the management letters had several
suggestions to improve the financial management system which were not adequately addressed by the PCU.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Despite the good efforts of project agencies over the last two years, as explained in earlier sections, the
institutional development impact has only been modest, and only some of the changes introduced under the project
are expected to really take hold. In a post project situation, it is probable that the DOA will continue to use the new
projectizatton procedures, as they provide for better management flexibility, a key consideration at the time of
budget cuts; and to a lesser extent bottom-up-planning and partnerships in service delivery. Similarly, NARC
regional stations will probably continue to use the procedures adopted under the project for problem identification
with farners and extension agents and for research project formulation. But the continuation of a number of
operational and institutional reforms started under the project is questionable. Reform of research and extension
systems is by its very nature a long term undertaking and requires political stability, adequate budget resources and
sustained consistent higher level commitment to change. Given the current circumstances in Nepal, it seems that
the sustainability of many of the reforms initiated under the project is probably unlikely.
6.1.1   The prime reason for the rating is simply that there has not been enough time since the MTR to properly
institutionalize many of the institutional reforms and new operational procedures. This situation is exacerbated by
the ongoing civil unrest associated with the Maoists which meant that many project districts were affected for the
last ten months of implementation. With the increased risk to staff and the probability of vehicle abductions, the
scope for researchers or extension agents to work with farmers was greatly constrained. There was also an
associated effect through budget cutbacks, resulting in substantially reduced the funding for research and extension
activities in the last year of the project. Finally, there is some doubt over higher-level commitment (with the
inevitable knock-on effect on staff of DOA and NARC) to maintain the major project reforms. Since the middle
period of the project when strong leadership within the MOAC led to the notable improvement in project
performance, there appears to have been some erosion of commitment to change in the latter months.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6 2 1  It was envisaged at the time of approval that the PCU would provide only coordination and administrative
support, and that the DOA and NARC would implement the project with existing staff and organizational
structures. In this way at project closure there would be a seamless transition to regular operations. This has
happened to a large extent in the case of NARC, which always operated fairly independently of the PCU.
Although the PCU was always more closely connected administratively to DOA, transition to regular extension
operations should still be relative seamless, as post MTR, most project initiatives have been implemented primarily
-9-



through the existing district extension apparatus.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Although the appraisal team made some use of the earlier preparation studies, it designed a project using concepts
(e.g. public/private partnerships) and implementation arrangements (heavy TA inputs, not grant funded) which at
that stage, were not yet fully accepted by the borrower -albeit they became accepted later, during implementation.
This led to poor quality at entry, as explained in para 3.5. The overall rating for Bank lending performance is
therefore rated as unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision in the first year or so of the project, although regular, failed to properly address the then apparent
project design faults and improve performance. To some extent this is attributed to a lack of commitment to the
project by the implementing agencies and MOAC during that time; but also to the fact that the project had four
task leaders before it was 18 months into implementation. From late 1999, just prior to the MTR, supervision
performance improved substantially, and can be considered as fully satisfactory from there on. As stated by the
borrower, review teams developed a strong working partnership with both implementing agencies and through this
constructive interaction, were helpful in addressing and resolving numerous implementation issues as they arose,
with good support coming from the Kathmandu office between the six monthly supervisions. Overall, supervision
performance is therefore rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Despite good supervision performance in the last three years of the project, the performance of the Bank in the
crucial preparation/appraisal phase and early implementation was unsatisfactory. In balance therefore, overall
Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Although NARC and DOA senior staff participated in project preparation, because of frequent staff changes,
continuity of involvement was a problem. In the end, it appears that the borrower entered into a project not beng-
entirely convinced of some of the basis tenets of project concept (role of private sector and NGOs) and not entirely
comfortable with the amount of TA being funded from the Credit. As both adversely effected early implementation,
borrower performance durng preparation and appraisal is assessed as unsatisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The proposed Steering Committee was supposed to be the main mechanism for project direction. However it was
never effective identifying and rectifying the lack of commitment and interest in the project by implementing
agencies in the early stages of implementation. Things improved greatly for a period of about 18 months at the
time of the MTR, when the then Minister took an active interest in the project, but slipped again towards the end.
Procrastination over appointment of TA; inordinate numbers of staff changes (particularly the leadership of
NARC); and sometimes inadequate provision of timely counterpart funds also adversely effected the project. As
these were under the direct control of the government, their performance overall is therefore rated as
unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The November 1999 implementation review concluded that the project was having little impact. This was
attributed partly to problems in project design, but also to lack of interest and commitment on the part of the two
implementing agencies. From then, and through the MTR and beyond, things improved considerably, following
increased attention to the project by then Minister of Agriculture and the appointment for four years of a full time
Executive Director (ED) of NARC. Following the MTR a new Project Coordinator was also appointed and for
much of the next two years the performance of both implementing agencies improved. However, towards the end of
the project the performance of both agencies again weakened, prompted to some extent by the deteriorating security
- 10-



situation in the field, but also at NARC, by yet another change of Executive Director and a number of other senior
staff posts. Both these developments were beyond the control of the executing agencies, and therefore, based on
the very solid performance leading up to the MTR and for most of the period after, the performance of DOA and
NARC is rated satisfactory, but only marginally so.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance
Based on the above arguments, the overall performance of the borrower is rated as unsatisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
8.1      The design and preparation of projects like AREP must be based on broad-based stakeholder
participation, especially the project beneficiaries, and must reflect national pnorities, to help establish full
borrower ownership. In addition, project preparation should include a thorough institutional and organizational
analysis of potential project agencies, to ensure appropriate project implementation arrangements.
8 2    Major institutional reform and the adoption of new management systems require long-term support
and are only possible when there is broad commitment from the borrower. Where a project calls for extensive
institutional reforms the design must realistically reflect the ability, and the commitment of the borrowing country
to adopt new systems. Institutional reform is a slow process, and might take ten years or more to complete and
sustain. The Bank should only initiate and support institutional reform projects if it is prepared to commit itself to
the full period needed for the adoption of reforms (provided borrower commitment remains strong). This is
especially so when the Bank is promoting a system change which varies from what it promoted earlier, as has
happened in Nepal, in the post-TV extension era.
8.3    The need for a Project Coordination Unit should be carefully assessed on a project by project basis
to ensure line agencies take full responsibility for project implementation, and on project closure that there is no
institutional sustainability. Where issues such as procurement or large training programs are perceived to be
administrative problematic without a PCU arrangement, outsourcing to specialized agencies should be
investigated.
8.4    Credit funds should be cancelled judiciously in institutional reform projects such as this, and only after
it is certain they will not be needed. In the case of AREP, cancellation of funds at the MTR effectively precluded
the extension of the project, just when it was beginning to show that additional resources might have helped
consolidate many of the changes introduced by the project.
8 5     The need for technical assistance, especially long term consultancies, must be critically assessed,
and where it is needed, it must be fielded on time, and preferably be grant financed. If Technical Assistance
is considered essential, procurement should be sufficiently advanced prior to the Board date, to avoid start-up
delays. The use of IDA Credit for TA is often unpopular with borrowers, and results in procedural difficulties and
delays; and should only be used in a last resort where there is no grant funding available. This implies greater
effort by the borrower and the Bank to identify and mobilize TA on a grant basis, from other interested donors
8.6      Higher level training should be undertaken as early as possible in the life of a project. This means
planning for the first batch of trainees needs to be well advanced before the Board date. It should also be phased in
such a way as to minimize disruption caused by long staff absences and to allow initial trainees to be involved in
implementation in the later stages of the project..
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency
In general, the borrower agrees with the general thrust of the ICR: that project design and early implementation
were deficient in crucial areas; commitment to the project concept and the performance of both the borrower and
the Bank improved greatly from the MTR onwards; but then project performance waned at the end, partly due to
- 11 -



the civil unrest in Nepal, especially in the rural areas. The borrower is however more positive about sustainabihty
of project reforms, and considers that the ICR ratings for Project Objective, Outcomes, and performance of
implementing agencies should therefore be more positive - suggesting that "slightly " satisfactory is a more
realistic rating for each of these than the unsatisfactory rating given. The borrower has prepared a completion
report which is presented in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(not applicable)
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
- 12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
.' . <   .Inrie   ,.-i.-rndIc a/matrI S..,  ProJectediin Iast:PSR      .;      * -.A cu aIiatst Estimare;     '
To assist HMGN improve the management  1 . Improved management performance  1 Some evidence that new, more efficient
and capacity of agncultural research and  within research and extension and extension management systems have been introduced,
extension services in order to ultmately  institutions to improve the efficiency of  but insufficient time has passed to assess
benefit small farmers                 service delivery                      whether the changes have become
sustainably adopted
2. Improved capacity of the extension  2 Newly introduced bottom- up-planning and
services to produce relevant outputs  projectization will improve the Extension
service's ability to deliver according to needs
of farmers, but more work is needed to
improve reform quality and train staff in the
new procedures.
Output Indicators:
,-;Rt; .,.''ginjleaor1MatrIxe,j-'. 4-4V?,, '  Projecte i is ,R ';       '.         taLt       s   a 
1. Improved Agricultural Research System
1.1 Higher quality staff capable of delivering  1.1 Number of qualified staff with the  1 1 There has been a notable increase in
relevant adaptve agricultural technology in  appropnate training to address farmers  staff higher level training both at NARC and
priority locatons                     agricultural problems in the project areas  iAAS, giving nse to a greater awareness of
the need to involve farmers in research
planning. However, the target of ten
scientists at each RARS have not been met
1 2 Effective and efficient agncultural  1 2 Cost effectiveness of relevant research  1.2.1 There has been a decrease in the
research institutons delivering improved  outputs and their application to beneficaries number of research programs leading to
technology cost effectively           problems                              better use of scarce resources
1.2.2 Improvements have been made in
project formulabon and budgetng
2 Improved Extension Services         2.1 More than 60% of the time of extension  2 1 Staff training has improved but the time
staff is spent in the field with farmers  of extension staff is spent in the field with
2 1 Higher quality and bebter motivated                                     farmers below target - field secunty a
agricultural extension staff                                                problem at the end of project
2 2 1 High attendance at farmer meetings  2 2 1 There has been some increase in the
2.2 Increased farmer participation                                          number of groups formed by field agents, but
2.2.2 High satisfaction of the farmers with  sustainability after the first year is a problem
extension effort                      2 2 2 Many farmers stil see the extension
service as a source of subsidized inputs
rather than as a source of knowledge -
farmers relying more on inputs suppliers and
NGOs for technical advice
2.3 Increased adoption of improved    2.3 Percent of farmers adopting Improved  2 3 Difficult to attribute to projrect in short
technology by farmers                 practices, disaggregated by pnce      time-frame, but national producbon trends
increasing
2.4 EstabiLshment of more effectve and  2 4 1 Effectiveness of service delivery in the  2 4 1 Difficult to measure in absence of
efficient local institutions at the distnct and  districts                  quantified indicators.
grassroots levels                     2.4.2 Transparent budget process      2 4 2 No improvement over pre- project
situabon, but projecization helping.
2 5 Better integration of research and  2.5 Relevance of the adapted technologies to 2 5 RTWGs working more effectively but not
extension                             the beneficiaries concemed            possible to assess in the absence of
quantified indicators
2 6 Projectzaton of distridct programs and                                  2 6 Both actvities have started, but more
contracting out of some projects to NGOs                                    Ume is needed to improve quality and
effectiveness
End of project
- 13 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I    |     | -~  .        ....   .   .     - : | -  .  'Appraisal  Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate'      Appraisal
'-'      ,       ' .- ; :   -'Component        US$ mnllion  ''US$ million., 
Agricultural Research                               13.50          10.30             76
Extension Services                                  12.00          13.50            112
Total Baseline Cost                                 25.50          23.80
Physical Contingencies                              5.00
Total Project Costs             30.50          23.80
Total Financing Required             30.50          23.80
Estimated project costs were revised down to $24.6 million at the 2000 MTR to reflect the slow implementation
pace until then.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-... ,P ;                              Method
Expenditure Category ..   ICB.-     ProCB        M  thod         N.B.F. -   Total Cost
-  ;.                  ~~~~NCB      .te
1. Works                     0.00          3.40         2.00         0.00         5.40
(0.00)       (3.40)        (0.40)       (0.00)      (3.80)
2. Goods                      5.00         1.00         0.30          0.00        6.30
(5.00)        (0.30)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (5.30)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         11.10         0.00        11.10
Consultancies and           (0.00)        (0.00)       (11.10)       (0.00)      (11.10)
Training
4. Incremental Operating     0.00          0.00         7.70          0.00        7.70
Costs                       (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.10)       (0.00)      (4.10)
Total                      5.00         4.40         21.10         0.00        30.50
(5.00)       (3.70)       (15.60)       (0.00)      (24.30)
-14-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-';';-:' .     ",.               o Pirocurent Mth ---  -.
Expenditure Category.p  *:L ilCB                       -          -             T 2-B    t
r.NCBI                      NB.:       TtlCt
1. Works                       0.00           3.10          1.20          0.00         4.30
(0.00)        (2.00)        (0.80)        (0.00)        (2.80)
2. Goods                        2.80          0.50          0.10          0.00         3.40
(2.80)        (0.20)        (0.10)        (0.00)        (3.10)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          7.60          0.00         7.60
Consultancies and              (0.00)        (0.00)        (7.60)        (0.00)        (7.60)
Training
4. Incremental Operating        0.00          0.00          0.00          8.50         8.50
Costs                          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.10)        (4.10)
Total                        2.80          3.60          8.90          8.50         23.80
(2.80)        (2.20)        (8.50)        (4.10)       (17.60)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shoppmg, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
C.ompoanent.:           P9pr3iial Esilaes                  Blestt             |     -     pptea- -4i|
-        -,  . -'  :  ;~ -' IDA.-;  ~~-  o^t:  -  C .-                        I , an -  X  -  . .,G v  -
AGRIC. RESEARCH
Works                    2.60      1.10     0.00       1.30     0.95      0.00    50.0   86.4    0.0
Goods                    2.80      0.20     0.00       1.90     0.25      0.00    67.9   125.0   0.0
Consultancies and        5.10      0.00     0.00       1.30     0.00      0.00    25.5    0.0    0.0
Training
Incremental Operating    2.10      2.30     0.00      2.30      2.30      0.00    109.5  100.0   0.0
Costs
EXTENSION SERVICES
Works                    1.10      0.50     0.00       1.50     0.55      0.00    136.4  110.0   0.0
Goods                    3.00      0.30     0.00       1.20     0.35      0.00    40.0   116.7   0.0
Consultancies and        6.00      0.00     0.00      6.30       0.00     0.00    105.0   0.0    0.0
Training
Incremental Operating    1.60      1.80     0.00       1.80      1.80     0.00    112.5  100.0   0.0
Costs
TOTAL                   24 30      6 20     0.00      17.60      6.20     0.00    72.4   100.0   0 0
- 15 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Beneflts
The ERR was not recalculated for the ICR
Economic Analysis
at Appraisal
Scenario I a/
NPVB                                           NRs 4.1 millionN/A
ERR                                                  51 %N/A
Scenario 2 b/                                           N/A
NPVB                                           NRs 7.7 millionN/A
ERR                                                  70%N/A
a/     Scenario 1 assumed that the project would be fully implemented, but that the other initiatives
of the Agricultural Perspective Plan (i.e. roads, irrigation, electricity or fertilizer use) would not
be effected.
b/     Scenario 2 assumed that the project would be fully implemented, and that the other APP
initiatives would also be partially effected.
- 16 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
MonthNYear    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
1995/1996                 11   Fomo (RMS); Shrivastava
(RMS); Ameur (AES); Pradhan
(FMS); Mishra (AES); Mukami
(EC); Serejski (AG); Estoque;
Choi; Seth (AES);
Nagy
Appraisal/Negotiation
1997/1998                 11   Fomo (RMS); Shrivastava
(RMS); Ameur (AES);
Pradhan (FMS); Mishra
(AES); Mukami (EC);
Serejski (AG); Estoque;
Choi; Seth (AES),
Nagy
Supervision
04/28/1998                  3   I. Serejski (TL); R.C. Mishra    S            S
AG)
G. Mukami (AE)
01/28/1999                  7   S. Ranjitkar COM SP); I.         U            U
Serejski (AG); Mishra (AES);
Willet (NGO SP); Epworth (AG);
Baral (PS); Pradhan (FMS)
11/22/1999                  3  Thapa (PS); Epworth (AG);         U            U
Mishra (AES)
02/24/2000 (MTR)            7   Pradhan (FMS); Baral (PS);      HS            S
Epworth (AG); Byerlee (RMS);
Alex (AES); Mishra (AES);
Shrestha (AE)
11/15/2000                  6  Farruk (AE); Epworth (AG);        U            S
Byerlee (RMS); Alex (AES)
Mishra (AES). Pradhan (FMS)
05/16/2001                  4   Epworth (AG); Baral (PS),        U             S
Pradhan (FMS); Mishra (AES)
12/05/2001                  6   Pradhan (FMS); Baral (PS);       S            S
Epworth (AG); Mishra (AES);
Alex (AES); Byerlee (RMS)
02/15/2002                  4   Epworth (AG); Mishra (AES),      S             S
Alex (AES); Byerlee RMS)
09/13/2002                  5   Epworth (AG); Mishra (AES);.
Shrestha (AE); Baral (PS);
- 17 -



Pradhan (FMS)
U             U
ICR
02/04/2002                   6    Task Manager (1),                 U             U
Agriculturalist (1); Research
Specialist (1); Financial
Management Specialist (1);
Procurement Specialist (1),
Extension Specialist (1)
a/ AE = Agric Economist; AG = Agricultunst; PS = Procurement Specialist; FMS = Financial Management
Specialist; AES = Agnc Extension Specialist; EC = Economist; RMS = Research Management Specialist; Com Sp
= community Specialist; NGO Sp = NGO Specialist. Not all specialties for appraisal and supervision could be
identified based on MIS and SAP systems output
b/ It was considered that the identification/preparation process was merged with appraisal
c/ From Project Status Reports
d/ Associate professional Officer.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
AppraisaUNegotiation                       82                       281.5
Supervision                               210                       380.9
ICR                                        14                        65.2
Total                                     306                       726.6
a/ It was considered that the identification/preparation process was merged with appraisal.
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
 Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N        * NA
 Sector Policies                     O H *SUOM O N O NA
Z Physical                            O H *SUOM O N        O NA
 Financial                           O H OSUOM * N O NA
 Institutional Development           0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
F Environmental                       O H OSUOM       * N O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction             OH OSUOM * N O NA
3 Gender                        O H OSUOM O N        * NA
E Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N        * NA
2 Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Z Public sector management            0 H O SUO M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N        * NA
-19-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
D Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
L Supervision                                       OHS OS      OU    OHU
OI Overall                                         OHS OS       O u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
L Preparahon                                        OHS OS      O  U   O HU
L Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
OI Overall                                         OHS Os       OU     O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 16658-NEP, NEPAL: Agricultural Research and Extension
Project, July 1997.
2.    Agncultural Research Project. Identification Mission Working Paper. FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme, Report No. 43/85 CP NEP-26WPI.
3.    Third Agncultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme,
Report No 135/87 CP-NEP 32.
4.    Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100 NEP) - Completion Report, FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme, Report No. 36/91 CP - NEP 39 CR.
5.    Agricultural Research Project Preparation Report. FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Report No.
29/92 CP - NEP 42.
6.    Agricultural Research Project, Project Brief, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Report No. 8/94 -
NEP 46PB.
7.    Agricultural Extension Project II, Completion Report, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Report
No. 65/95 CP - NEP51 ICR.
8.    Agricultural Technology and Dissemination Project, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Report No.
82/95 CP -NEP49.
9.    Supervision/Implementation Review Mission Reports. April 1998; January 1999; November 1999; February
2000 (MTR), November 2000; April 2001; December 2001; February 2002; September 2002.
10.   Project Status Report (590 Forms).
11.   Nepal Agricultural Research and Extension Project - Implementation Volume, July 1997 (WB Report No.
16658-NEP).
12.  Impact Study on Group Approach in Agriculture Extension Programme of AREP Distncts (Dhanusa and
Kavrepalanchowk), JRBCON(P) Ltd. November 2001.
13.   Assignment Completion Report, 21 June 1999-15 February 2002, G.K. Shrestha Extension Management
Specialist, SEEPORT Consultancy (P) Ltd.
14.  International Technical Assistance Consultants - Annual Report 2000/2001, and Terminal Report.
MASDAR (UK) Ltd. In association with O.D.G. and Reading University.
15.   "Staff Development Plan for selected NARC Hill Stations". Report submitted to Hill Agriculture Research
Project by Human Resource Development Centre (HURDEC), Kathmandu, May 1997.
16.   "Report on Organisation Restructuring and Manpower Rationalisatton of NARC". Report submitted to
NARC by Nepal Administrative Staff College (NASC), Kathmandu, October 2000.
17.   "Nepal Agricultural Research Council (NARC). Budget Management System Users Manual". Sys-Tec
Consultants Pvt., Ltd. Kathmandu 2001
- 21 -



18.  "Nepal Agricultural Research Council (NARC). Personnel Management System Completion Report",
Sys-Tec Consultants Pvt. Ltd., Kathmandu 2002
19. Programmne Budgets of Nepal Agricultural Research Council for financial years 2054/55 (1997/98); 2055/56
(1998/99); 2056/57 (1999/00); 2057/58 (2000/01); 2058/59 (2002/02); 2059/60 (2002/03). Planning
Division, Nepal Agricultural Research Council
20.   Agricultural Sector Performance Review (ADB TA 3536-NEP) Goletti, F., Ghimire D., Bhatta, A., and
Dulal, U., 2002
-22 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrowers Completion Report
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
1.     ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVE, DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPERATION EXPERIENCE
In Nepal, Agriculture is the lead sector for broad-based economic growth aimed at poverty reduction. The country's
Ninth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002) set a target of reducing poverty to a level of 32% by the end of the plan penod
(2002). This periodic plan is the first phase of implementing twenty years' visionary Agricultural Perspective Plan
(APP). APP provides a vision of agricultural development and its strategy stresses key roles of technology and
infrastructure APP clearly identifies priorities, policies, investments and organizations responsible for
implementing the vision. High growth by the end of APP was assumed to be initiated through crop subsector
during the first phase of APP implementation. The strategy was maximizing the use of available technologies
through enhanced delivering and facilitating capacity of public sector research and extension systems, primarily
operated by Nepal Agncultural Research Council (NARC) and Department of Agriculture (DOA). It is against
this backdrop the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (AREP) was formulated and launched by
HMG/Nepal. Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed in March 1997.Following this, the credit became
effective in November 1997 and closed in September 2002. Thus the project implementation witnessed the full
ninth five-year plan period.
Project Development Objective
The project development objective was set to improve the management and capacity of public sector agricultural
research and extension services by (a). developing location-specific agricultural technology; and (b) improving
the technology delivery system. Thus, emphasis was more on introducing substantial institutional reforms in both
research and extension that would be self-sustainable and effectively optimize resource use than creating direct
impact on farmer's income while defining the project development objective. The PDO commensurate with the
development prionties, policies and investment needs of APP, especially those related to improved technology
development and delivery system.
The AREP, no doubt, provided a unique opportunity under a single IDA assistance to build on the successes of the
similar previous projects, notably IDA funded AERP and AEP 11, USAID funded ATSP and DFID funded HARP,
all framed with an objective of fostering stronger research and extension linkages. However, the expectation of
bringing about the extent of institutional reforms under AREP within a short period of five years was too
optimistic, given the inherent inertia of the implementing public sector agencies.
Project Design
The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified two project components - research and extension. The research
component was designed to (a) strengthen research institutions by improving the management information
systems, priority setting, monitoring and evaluation, (b) support human resource development, through training
and introduction of a reward system based on results and performance, (c) expand on-farm adaptive research, and
(d) provide facilities, equipment and working capital. The objectives for extension component consisted of (a)
intensification of decentralization, and promotion of farmer self-help groups, (b) development of human capital
through training and introduction of a reward system, and (c) provision of facilities, equipment and working
capital
The sub-components were set to achieve the stated overall project development objectives (PDOs). At the MTR,
project implementation strategies were refocused, reoriented and revitalized keeping basic PDOs the same.
Activities matching to project outputs were more clearly defined, and quantitative and qualitative targets were
- 23 -



agreed with the implementing institutions. This agreement was due to borrower's strong commitment to introduce
institutional reforms despite slackness for about initial half of the project implementation period. Some unforeseen
factors that could not be visualized at the design phase of the project caused the initial slackness on the part of the
borrower. The concept of APP at the design phase was just out but without clear-cut action strategy agenda for
reforms in this subsector. The MTR witnessed the right time to revisit the project components and activities as the
MOAC had already experienced by implementing focussed Pocket Package Program in line with APP. Policy
reforms such as deregulation of fertilizer market, gradual removal of subsidy in tubewells and increasing
public-private partnerships were already conceptualized and in some cases implemented. However, the remaining
life of the project was inadequate to implement the revised project strategies outlined by MTR and realize the
desired impact. In other words, they were over ambitious in the given timeframe and resources.
Originally, the project cost for research and extension components were estimated at US$ 16.2 million and US$
14.3 million respectively. At MTR, overall assessment of IDA credit disbursement status was made, and the
progress then was far below the target. Unit costs of activities and subcomponents were also reviewed. Cancelling
SDR 4 0 million upon the request of the HMGN scaled the IDA credit down to SDR 13.5 million from the original
figure of 17.5 million. However, the financial plan was not changed.
Project Components
At the MTR 2000, the project components/subcomponents and targeted activities were specified as below:
Research Component: Subcomponents/Activities
Modernizing and reforming NARC
Clarification of NARC structure
Human Resource Development
Consolidation of Resources around priority areas
*      Monitoring and Evaluation of Research
Information Technology and Management Information System
*      Enhanced Collaboration with other R&D providers
Strengthening Regional Agricultural Research and linkages with farmers and extension
Reallocation of staff to regional stations
New outreach research policy and guwdelines for on-farm research
More systematic discussion and prioritization of research and extension agenda in RTWG
*      Improved research-extension linkages at the national and regional levels
*      Adoption impact and feedback studies of technologies generated by NARC
Beyond NARC: Towards National Agricultural Research Policy and Fund
Formulation of national agricultural policy
*      Establishment of equal opportunity institution - NARDF
Extension Component: Subcomponents/Activities
Modernization ofpublic extension services
Improvement of district infrastructure (ASC/ASSC), communications and projectization of district
programs
Development of district databases
- 24 -



Strengthening technical support programs (training, mass media, M&E, technical support from central and
regional extension programs)
Modemization of CATC/RATC currmcula
*      Formulation of an updated National Extension Strategy
Improving financial management within and introduction of an MIS
Promotion of Partnership
*      Strengthening process of group formation
*      Training of private extension providers
*      Piloting of a program of contract extension and joint financing of extension programs with private
extension providers
Decentralizing extension services
*      Development of more effective 'Bottom-Up" planning and prionty setting
*      Piloting decentralizing under Local Self Govemance Act
Human Resource Development
*      Orientation of all staff in new Extension Strategy
*      Provision of Degree and in-service training
*      Study of human resource needs
At the MTR, reorientation of components was felt necessary to increase the agency's responsibility and ownership
for the project as a part of their institutional reform agenda. They were very closely related to PDO, and were
agreed to be within the implementation capacity of the concemed agencies. The third subcomponent of support to
IAAS was silently built in the project common to both research and extension components, however, costing,
especially for the higher study of its staff, was an oversight.
Project Achievements and Outputs
The MTR exercise on revisiting, revising and refocusing project inputs, outputs and strategies can be grouped
under nine outcomes very much linked to PDO, project achievements and outputs are assessed as follows:
Outcome Indicator 1: NARC would have established its credibility and accountability among the
stakeholders as an effective research service provider.
A system of bottom-up research planning through Village Level Workshop initiated during the ATSP and
built on the Farming System Research model was reviewed and revised making the process more farmer
need-based and establishing greater stake of the users of technology in prioritization and setting on-farm and
on-station research agenda was institutionalized.
Joint research-extension-farmer -nongovemment research provider planning, implementing and
monitoring systems were established.
Collaboration with national and international research providers was greatly enhanced, justifying NARC's
enhanced credibility and accountability.
*      The functioning of RTWGs was greatly streamlined in order to increase its effectiveness, diversification of
participating institutions (including NGOs and private sector) and improve down stream research addressing
location-specific needs for technology. In its support, National Technical Working Group (NTWG) was established
and began to be functional..
NARC continues to organize national, regional and international seminars, workshops, conferences and
meetings to increase its rapport with the stakeholders and disseminate technologies
*      Recently, NARC introduced an operational procedure to promote hybrids or similar commercial
technologies in collaboration with private sector.
-25 -



Outcome Indicator 2: NARC would establish research portfolios largely farming systems-based and farmer
need-based.
At least 75% of the research portfolios in the regional research stations now originate locally addressing
local priorities. National commodity research programs are tuned to meet the technical requirements of these
stations. This is in contrast to situation before AREP when the trend was just opposite and regional research
programs were largely made of national commodity programs' expenmental materials and priorities.
*      As an impact of the NARC's regional research program, diversification of agro-enterpnses is taking
place. Introduction of cowpea as a catch crop in rice-wheat system, expansion of lentil area under cultivation
making it an exportable commodity etc can be cited as examples. Even vertically, there is a significant shift in
varietal adoption and crop management practices integrating traditional practices with the modem ones such as
IPNS, IPM etc. in project areas.
As a result of NARC research, farmers now have technological options ranging from low cost
technologies such as zero-tillage in wheat, surface seeding in wheat more suited to poor and small farmers to
hybrids and high input technologies suitable to commercial and resourceful farmers and agro-entrepreneurs.
Outcome Indicator 3: NARC would have established its ownership of placing competitive research
environment.
In preparing itself as the lead institution for national agricultural research system, NARC prepared a
twenty year vision recognizing its dual role of promoting science and technology in agriculture at national level as
well as implementing core research programs as a public goods in fulfilling government's responsibility for
ensuring food security and broad-based economic growth. Presently, it is working to develop vision implementation
plan with DFID assistance targeting initiating implementation in FY 2003-04. To begin with, policy functions are
now physically detached from its traditional location at Khumaltar Research Complex. Locating both policy and
implementing functions within the same premise was a constraint to decision making of NARC as research
facilitator.
The vision clearly outlines NARC's role in promotion of CGS for research and development in tune to
recently operationalized NARDF.
Through revamped RTWG and NTWG, NARC is exploring ways to initiate collaborative research
programs with agencies within the MoAC in areas for which these institutions have better competitive advantage,
such as livestock, horticulture, socioeconomic research and IPM.
Outcome Indicator 4: IAAS would have established postgraduate training courses in various fields.
Post-graduate courses in Agronomy, Horticulture, Plant protection, Agricultural Economics, Extension,
Plant Breeding, Fishery, Soil Science with specialization in diverse areas are established at LAAS. They are now
self-sustainable as evidenced from the continuation of these programs even without external project support.
B.Sc. Ag and B.VSc. courses now follow semester system abandoning the traditional annual system
The project supported the institution in developing curricula, sponsored seven faculty staff for Ph.D. and
MS training and providing institutional development fund through student support program.
Outcome Indicator 5: Extension activities in 80% of the project districts based on participatory planning
process would have been projectized and a system of documentation would be initiated.
Participatory project planning process was developed, and accordingly, extension activities of all districts
(75) were projectized from FY 2001/02. The projects are based on local priorities identified through a participatory
bottom-up planning process institutionalized throughout the organizations in DOA. In AREP distncts, 286 projects
serving directly more than 5698 households 36 % women) are under implementation.
With projectization, it has now become possible to identify components based on local priorities directly
benefiting the users, linking measurable outputs to objectives for a given timeframe and designing activities/inputs
to produce the desired outputs and impacts. The process could establish a system, within the organization from
national to grassroots level, of standard project management, staff utilization and monitoring. Project profiles are
documented at each level of the organization (national planning commission, ministry, department, region and
- 26 -



district).
For feedback to national extension system, the impact studies (10), case studies (3) and special technical
studies (6) were commissioned. These studies validate the positive impacts of prionty national prograrns or, in
some cases, positive initial effect.
In preparation for implementation of projectization process, extension staff in field were oriented in mass
followed by a refresher training to prepare a cadre of at least two master trainers in each AREP district and one in
non-AREP district, region and central program units.
Outcome Indicator 6: The support from the central level technical units to the district programs would
have been greatly enhanced.
The projectization process enhanced the need of linking central program units to districts for technical back up in
project identification, project formulation and monitoring. Visits of senior subject matter specialists form these
units to district project sites became more frequent.
Outcome Indicator 7: At least, five projects/programs in 80% of the project districts would have been
implemented in partnership with NGO and private organizations either on contract out or cost sharing
basis.
With project initiative, the government introduced policy reform to promote public-pnvate partnership,
partnership with beneficiary groups and community organizations.
Agencies within the organization were oriented to change the mindset to promote such collaboration and
partnerships. Policy of contracting out extension programs was also emphatically introduced. As a result, 18
projects were contracted out to agencies outside DOA in FY 2001/02. Direct partnership of district offices was
established with 13698 FGs 5698 within ADO and 8000 outside ADO).
Most AREP districts have established partnership with more than targeted number of NGOs and pnvate
agencies.
Outcome Indicator 8: Capability of frontline extension agents in DOA project districts would have been
enhanced for increased social mobilization, farm management and market promotion.
The newly introduced reforms in national extension strategy under the project created heavy need for staff
orientation across the organization Immediately after MTR, all 1200 field staff were given general orientation on
reformed extension strategy. The key contents of this mass training were the changed role of public sector as a
facilitator rather than a service provider, commercial outlook to service delivery, social mobilization and
participatory development tools.
Following this general awareness regarding the need to reform extension strategy, several supplementary
and complementary trainings, workshops, meetings, task group mobilization were organized. After MTR, 7142
extension staff received in-service in-country training, with curricula revised to suit new needs of reformed
extension strategy.
Sustainability of these initiatives is ensured from the fact that DOA reformed national training strategy
commencing implementation from the beginning of the tenth five-year plan (2002-07). Training modules for six
new courses (project planning, project monitoring and evaluation, marketing, commercialfarming, mainstreaming
gender in agriculture and agricultural resource management) needed to improve human resource capability in
DOA are prepared.
Outcome Indicator 9: Technologies generated after 1995 would produce an impact of increasing farm
income at least by 20%.
Available socioeconomic studies and district database analysis indicates that farm level productivity and income
during the project period has significantly increased. DOA analysis reveals that the average cost-benefit ratio in
wheat in AREP program- covered areas increased from 1:1.11 in 1997 to 1:1.47 in 2002, whereas rice recorded
marginal increase during the same period. Relatively low economic gain in rice is attributed to declining
commodity pnce caused by inflow of Indian paddy. Similarly in the project districts, the productivity of paddy
- 27 -



increased to 3.7 mt/ha in 2002, which is 11% higher than that in the beginning of the project. Productivity gains in
maize, wheat, vegetables and potato are remarkable during the project period. The average yield of wheat in
program-covered areas increased from 2.35 mt/ha to 2.67 mt/ha, in maize it was from 2.35 mt/ha to 2.82 mt/ha, in
vegetables from 10.9 mt/ha to 12.87 mt/ha and the increase in potato was from 10.6 to 14.99 mt/ha. These gains
are mainly due to wider adoption of recent technologies.
Project Inputs
As MTR revisited the project operational strategy to meet the PDO within a limited time frame and under
constraints posed due to weak project implementation progress during the initial half of the project period, inputs
delivery as planned in the onginal PAD by the project was also reviewed. This was so done to ensure that the
systems reform introduced would have a strong base of moderately satisfactory physical, human and organizational
management norms. Unit costs of items were also revised and made more realistic learning lessons from the initial
project implementation phase. Basic strategy of such support was to build on the capacities already built in
extension component by earlier donor-assisted projects, and some critical new civil works in research component
as for this component AREP was the first major investment project after autonomy of NARC in 1991. Emphasis
was also laid on office and field equipment and installing computerized office operation. Equal emphasis was also
given to upgrade transport facilities in order to enable the executing agencies -NARC and DOA/MOAC,
improving monitoring of programs and increase access to farmer groups. Assessment of this project support is
given below:
Physical Infrastructure Development. Both research and extension components made overall satisfactory progress
in developing physical infrastructure in terms of rehabilitation of existing facilities, new civil works, upgrading
transport, communication and office automation facilities. Most works and goods are procured as planned at MTR
except three modestly larger office buildings in Tarhara, Hardinath and Nepalgunj where substantial works are
already completed, and thus it is possible to complete the works through government funding. Had the decision in
amending design and estimates and contract variation been made by NARC on time and IDA and HMGN
matching budget been released on time in FY 2001/02, they would have been completed within the project period.
Change in NARC management took place in the final year of project implementation that also caused delay in
work completion.
Human Resource Development. Since sustainability of introduced reforms is mainly dependent on the quality of
human resources in the organization to continue with the reform process, MTR put increased emphasis on short
and long-term in -country and foreign training for staff and users. Considering the diversity of training needs and
institutions imparting these trainings, and long bureaucratic procedures involved in candidates selection, it was
realized beforehand all the candidates undergoing long -term training would not have completed and returned to
duty stations within the remaining project period after MTR. Request for special arrangement has already been
made at the last PIR in September 2002 to continue funding support to candidates still under training. Costs are
already adjusted in IDA figures calculated during the project ICR in September/October 2002.In total, the project
sponsored 13 candidates for Ph.D, 67 for M.S., 22 for B.S. in NARC. Similarly, 3 candidates for Ph.D, 53 for
M.S., 27 for B.S. in DOA/MOAC were sponsored by the project. In addition, number of candidates sponsored for
overseas short-term training and study tours was 244 in NARC and 131 in DOA/MOAC. However, stringent policy
measures adopted by CIAA not allowing credit fund for such overseas training and very tight budgetary situation
under IDA training/consultancy category of the credit during the final year of the project restricted sending
candidates for short term overseas trainings as planned at MTR.
Technical Assistance.  As obvious, general foreign -aid policy of the government does not encourage heavy
investment on technical assistance in credit-funded projects like AREP. Since the government was seriously
committed to introduce reforms in research and extension services to meet the challenges posed by APP, this policy
was little relaxed for AREP based on the fact that the internal capability of the executing agencies was inadequate
to establish reforms in the system. However, dilemma in determining the quality of foreign and local consultants
delayed recruitment of national and international consultants. This initially caused some hindrance in project
implementation. But later on it was realized at organization level as an opportunity to build indigenous capacity of
- 28 -



already experienced people working in the project areas. The gaps could be filled by organizing task groups,
preparing master trainers in reform agenda and intensive brain storming at all relevant levels using the agreed
contract provisions of the consultants. Thus, quality of project interventions was not significantly hampered by this
gap. In total, 145 person months of national consultants and 78 person months of international consultants were
used by the project. The numbers were reduced to adjust available IDA funds and the changed need from the time
of MTR as already significant organizational internal inputs had already gone into project implementation.
Separate contracts for international and national consultants were a constraint to better utilization, management
and coordination of TA.
Financial Resource Utilization. A total of SDR13.5 million, equivalent to US$17.7 million (after EQR
adjustment), was: available with the project after MTR. As calculated during ICR mission and last supervision
mission, the project will use almost total funds by the grace period for expenses already incurred by September 30,
2002. Although the project performance in fund utilization is exceptionally satisfactory, other areas of financial
management with respect to overall project portfolio performance such as bookkeeping by program components,
timely reporting from field offices, timely claim for reimbursement, account operation with the spirit of the project
etc. were weak. The-weakness in this area is not specific to AREP only but across the government system.
Project Coordination. The PAD originally envisaged AREP as the lead project in agricultural sector to reform
public research and extension services. Accordingly, one umbrella institutional mechanism by establishing
Agricultural Development Steering Committee under the chairmanship of Secretary, MOAC comprising senior
officials from government line agencies, particularly those directly related to agricultural programs and resource
provision, very much in line with APP, was thought. This was given the mandate to steer and guide overall
agricultural development programs and projects in the ministry. This was to be supported by a Technical
Sub-Committee to assist the steering committee in technical matters related to overall agricultural programs
including AREP. Later on at MTR, it was realized that these committees could not function as desired due to
organizational anomalies and different path taken by the government in steering APP implementation. And it was
also realized that the project implementation was suffering greatly due to delays in resolving day-to-day
implementation issues and overall ownership problem. Thinking this, an alternative institutional mechanism was
agreed in the form of Project Management Committee, which will supplement the above committees or fill the gaps
in project coordination created by nonfunctional mode of these committees. In fact, this arrangement was very
successful in resolving issues related to ownership, mobilization of available project resources and regular
supervision of project ,implementation. This naturally called for very frequent and intensive operation of PMC
dunng the first half of the period after MTR. Later on when it was realized that the issues with project
implementation are greatly resolved, the frequency of PMC meetings was reduced. A need-based project
management strategy was applied rather than a customary meeting to achieve the target. The new project
coordinator, after MTR, understood his TOR and adopted a facilitating role rather than implementers role, as had
been the case before MTR.
Operation Experience
AREP demanded very intensive, coherent, integrated and consistent efforts on the part of all concerned institutions
* to introduce reforms -and operate programs based on the reform agenda Project operation expenence, especially
,after MTR, had been very challenging and rewarding. It was challenging in the sense that reforms had to be
introduced in an environment where conventional practices of research and extension service delivery were very
deep-rooted within the organizations as a result of variable interventions introduced by several projects in past.
Rewarding experience was gained as project piloted some key reforms despite the short period available after MTR.
Experiences in areas related to projectization of extension activities, contract extension, public-private partnership
in research and extension, computerization of MIS (especially in research component), improving M&E system,
more particularly at organizational level, by intensively introducing system of empirical studies (especially in
extension component), to evaluate the impact/effect of programs, introducing policy reforms in support of these
endeavors, were very rewarding. Experience is so overwhelming that thinking has initiated at policy level on how
to sustain these reforms introduced by the AREP. Of course, roles of other projects had been equally supportive.
- 29 -



For the success of the projects like AREP, which had very high risks at entry, quality at entry needs to be improved
in future by making all necessary preparations before venturing into action. AREP unfortunately could not
experience this benefit.
Managing technical assistance component was equally challenging as consultants are often thought as appendix to
the system, and perceptions of their mobilization vary greatly from organization to organization and person to
person. Prevalent World Bank's rules barring working civil service professionals from providing consultancy
services created further constraints as limited mass of experts were available in the market for quality inputs. This
could have rather reduced the return on credit investment by the government for human resource development and
building organizational capacity.
Fmancial management specific to suit project output performance is another area where enormous challenges are
posed to project management. Although TOR and the responsibilities of the Project Coordinator were spelled out in
PAD, they were not coherent to prevalent administrative and financial regulations of the government. This often
caused delay in decisions and performance. The situation became more complex when the financial management
had to operate in a network of numerous fields cost centers, as in AREP where delivery capacity of accountants was
not uniform, and by and large, weak.
The project was implemented under two different sets of organizational models, an autonomous organization -
NARC and a very bureaucratic HMGN institution -DOA. Differential management strategies had to be applied in
coordinating project operations. This, sometimes, created difficulties in balancing both components of the project.
Throughout the project life, implementation of extension component was greatly delegated to PCU, especially for
capital investment programs such as physical infrastructure building, overseas training, TA etc., allowing risks of
imbalance in hardware and software of the project despite better understanding and coordination with DOA. This
can be attributed to fault in project design where responsibilities were not balanced between executing agencies -
NARC and DOA. A fully responsible project implementation unit within the DOA should have minimized such
risks. Despite these constraints, if a project coordinator is very sensitive to project needs and amicable to adjust
adversities, risks could be greatly minimized. However, this can not be an institutional way of dealing business.
II.    EVALUATION OF THE GOVERNMENT/EXECUTING AGENCIES'OWN PERFORMANCE,
AND LESSONS LEARNT FOR FUTURE
Government's own performance is dealt in areas related to project conceptualization, project appraisal and
designing, and project implementation. The government thinks the AREP is a follow up to earlier IDA and other
donor-supported projects in recent past. The foundation to the present phase of IDA assistance goes back to
mid-seventies when Agricultural Research and Extension Project (AREP) was initiated and implemented. This was
the beginning of the era of reorienting research - extension towards farmer's needs. This was followed by
implementation of Agricultural Extension Project (AEP 11 and 1) between mid eighties and nineties. This era laid
the foundation of strengthening Farmer's Organizations, recognizing them as potential institutions at grass roots
for technology verification, transfer, and input-output marketing. Thus by this time, realization at policy and
organization levels grew widespread that the Nepalese agriculture could take off for commercialization. This
thought got further footing when the MOA was restructured in 1992 when all development and extension functions
were integrated under one umbrella organization called Department of Agricultural Development (DOAD), and
research was given autonomous status by a separate Act in 1991. This resulted in designing a project for IDA
assistance focussing agricultural marketing, shortly before phasing out of AEP 11 in 1994. However, several
limitations were realized later to exclusively launch a marketing and commercialization focussed project. Then, the
capacity of Farner Groups was not adequately developed to be self-sustainable and handle complex functions such
as marketing and agribusiness. Research and extension were predominantly production focussed, linkages between
them were not adequately established, and organizational anomalies after restructuring were not resolved.
Realizing this, the government thought to go for another phase for reform in research and extension operation, and
laying the strong foundation for taking up commercialization agenda. In fact, the achievements of the recently
completed AERP further support this thinking of the government. Despite constraints, the project reinforced the
functioning of farmer organizations as viable institutions, the linkages among research, extension and farmers,
- 30 -



collaboration with non-government organizations and institutional capacity of implementing extension programs
in project format.
The borrower's own expenence during designing and initial implementation of the AREP will be very useful for
future. During designing of the project, the government had little experience on partnership with private and other
service providers whereas similar programs taken up by them were already benefiting farmers, and thus was very
reluctant to involve them in development strategy. The beginning of the implementation of the project faced
several constraints, which were later realized by the government at MTR in 2000. The project unto MTR suffered
due to lack of ownership by the implementing agencies. Consultants could not be recruited as scheduled in the
workplan. Project management capacity in the organization was inadequate to meet the project requirements. IDA
-Procurement Procedures were not fully understood in NARC, and the PCU support to NARC in this matter was
very weak. Even after MTR, when PCU support to NARC was greatly enhanced, the NARC remained less backed
by PCU than the DOA in facilitating project implementation.
Despite serious efforts by the implementing agencies, the desired system of effective monitoring and evaluation
could not be established, although reforms were initiated after MTR. The activities of the central and regional
agncultural training centers of DOA could not be fully reformed as planned at MTR. However, the project could
contribute to borrower in the following areas building its confidence in taking up further steps in establishing the
introduced reforms to reduce poverty in a sustainable manner:
Change in the mindset of public sector players. The most remarkable achievement of the project had been to
bring realization across the organization regarding the changed role of public sector as "service provisioner"
rather than as "service provider". Organizational behavior could be changed quickly if the degree of commitments
for reforms is high.
Harnessing the potentials of pluralistic institutional environment. In recent years, numbers and types of
agricultural technical service providers have increased. They have inherent competitive advantage for certain
specialized service for which the government had to make large investments. Piloting contract and collaborative
extension and research demonstrated the potentiality to attract resources from sectors outside government. Backed
by an appropriate strategy, pluralistic institutions' role can be synergistic to create high multiplier effect of public
sector interventions.
Bottom up participatory planning. Reforms in planning process, particularly developing action
projects/programs with more direct and wider participation of beneficiaries could increase the usefulness of
programs and impart greater ownership of the programs by the users. Beneficiaries become more committed to
sustain the programs. Risks in project success are minimized.
Overall institutional environment for project implementation. The borrower's performance in this regard is
mixed. Technical environment for project implementation remained satisfactory throughout the project life.
However, administrative support as required for successful project implementation was greatly impaired due to
change in leadership and personnel, unequal perceptions about project components and strategies, incoherent
service delivery capability across the organizations and ambiguity in financial and administrative regulations.
Investment in agricultural research and extension. During the first three years of the project, NARC and DOA
received the funding anticipated by APP, and AREP had been one of the major sources of such funding.
Unfortunately, fundmg began to shrink since the FY 2002/03 due to special security needs arisen in the country. In
FY 2001/02, allocations to research and extension were as required. Since AREP had been the main source of
government funding for research and extension, and available IDA fund was not adequate to meet the allocations,
the third trimester release of funds was partially cut in AREP areas. However, this action did not hamper much the
programs in the field, but only those related to infrastructure development.
Constraints realized. During the project implementation, the borrower realized constraints in addition to those
stated in earlier sections. The government could not give up its conventional strategy for resource allocation during
- 31 -



the entire project period. The strategy is built on the notion that the projects are the sole source of allocating
investment costs, whereas operational costs are allocated on incremental basis without much correlating the
relative importance of the research and extension subsectors and their relative potential to agricultural growth. The
allocation was not based on the measurable time-bound performance indicators of each component and relative
performance of the components. AREP remained the predominant source of funding field programs by the
government, in most cases the sole source of funding Thus,- there was heavy reliance on donors for incremental
operating costs that limited expansion of certain pnority programs such as commercialization of farm enterprises
among the beneficiaries. Rather, preference for such donor funding should have gone to investment costs, which
could impart longer life to institutions.
Resource allocations were not adequately matched to priorities. For example, more priority to building scientafic
facilities in NARC and implementing extension prograrns for the disadvantaged farmer groups should have been
given. Despite govemment's continued policy persuasions, small, poor and disadvantaged farmers still have
limited access to resources for their socioeconomic upliftment, although the group approach in extension increased
access. In AREP districts, at least 15 % of such target groups could be served by the project.
Organizational linkages with stakeholders could not be established as expected, particularly with those related to
entrepreneurs and marketers/processors.
Lessons learned
o   Project design seems most crucial in increasing the chance of a project success. Project must be designed after
wider stakeholders' participation and in line with the national priorities. The issue of ownership needs to be
pre-thought while designing the project. In this regard, the organization of the project implementation should
be carefully structured.
o   Quality at entry before actual initiation of project implementation is equally critical. All necessary preparations
as prerequisite must be fulfilled.
o   Investment need on TA should be critically examined for any funding. Equally critical is the design of TA.
Experience of AREP gives a lesson that intemational and national TA should be integrated in a single
package.
o   All players having role in project implementation should be well oriented in advance on project
implementation strategy related to project components and activities.
o   Recruitment of project staff should be on merit basis, and once done should be retained throughout the project
period if the performance is satisfactory.
O An alternative institutional model needs to be thought to build ownership of the project. Greater accountability
and flexibility should be given to implementing agencies. The functions of existing coordinator's units can be
placed at ministry's regular organizational set up with assigned authority and responsibility.
O   Reforms, particularly those related to contract extension and research and collaboration with agencies outside
government, should be cautiously introduced as these institutions are often on receiving side rather than giving
side. The safest start would be to move ahead with user groups and community organizations and some well
established organizations provided there is good support from local bodies and operation is decentralized.
o   A general tendency was observed to hold resources in the center, leaving limited resources for access by
users/clients. This nsk can be minimized if project is designed carefully.
O   Projects which greatly depends on delivery of outputs by diverse institutions, should be launched with equal
commitments by the concerned agencies.
- 32 -



*   Projects which have heavy agenda of institutional reforms need to be implemented in an environment that
could perceive "project" as an opportunity with resources to establish reforms rather than as the priority means
to build physical infrastructure.
*   The central and authontative functions of the project coordinator should be well recognized.by the system. His
performance must be evaluated based on performance outputs rather than on bureaucratic norms.
*   Time frame for AREP after MTR was too short to fully embed the reforms across the organizations. Loan
cancellation at MTR further constrained to fully establish and operate reforms.
In.    EVALUATION OF THE WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE, LESSONS AND THEIR
RELEVANCE TO FUTURE
Since AREP remained a joint venture between the government as borrower and the World Bank as donor, equal
commitments on both sides are imperative to successful project implementation. Both the organizations operate on
their own bureaucratic rules and norms. Interfaces between such organizational norms and rules are difficult to
recognize for smooth project implementation, which call for very sensitive managerial skills. However due to good
exposure to local situations of the Nepal Country Office of the World Bank, as borrower feels, such interfaces were
identified without much difficulty. The country office provided excellent support to project coordination office and
implementing agencies throughout. Project Implementation Review Missions (PIRMs) sent by the World Bank
after MTR were highly supportive and played a very synergistic role in reaching agreements to revise, refocus and
re-prioritize activities for both research and extension components, and enhancing the ownership of implementing
agencies. However, PIRMs sent by the bank during the first half of the project seemed ineffective to track the
project implementation. Lessons learnt and borrower's own evaluation of the performance and operation
experienced should guide the bank in funding future projects in agriculture in Nepal. Implications from these
discussions should be drawn for World Bank purpose.
(The main report is supported by Annexes, Tables and Attachments, wherever required.)
- 33 -



-34 -



-IBR 28715
- -'  -                                                           AGRICULTURAL                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEPAL
' _ _                              - .- S x --_ ~,                                                                             AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
55'5                                                               5.p_ - x o- lW Cs DISTRICTS UNDER PHASE I M                              DISTRAILURADS                                                                  '30
t DISTR CTS UNDER PHASE 11                           -   PRIMARY ALL WEATHER HIGHWAYS
REG ONAL AGR CULTURAL                         -   GRAVELLED/EARTHEN ROADS
RESEARCH STATIONS (RARS)                   -
-                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~MOUNTAIN ECOLOGICAL ZONE
f-I                                 |                                     f r , t , _ , _ TRA  T NG   CENTERS (RATC|        HILL ECOLOGICAL ZONE
I_-{     t  ' 4  lB '+                                           t                                                      _    ,__ ~ !.1 ,/-- -- -- ' '  -  A  CETRALAGRICULTURAL  [|] TERAf ECOLOGICAL ZONE
.  .. .... . .                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TEAN NIGCENTER (CATC)    KTMNUVLE
_ -                                                                                                          | ' - '-F/ q -|r ', \ *, AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTERS, F 1 KATURVALRES
S  K   ~~~~~~~A I?  Ai L  I  ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   ~    *   COMMODITIES PROGRAM                          4.   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
  DOMESTIC IPAVED) AIRPORTS
o    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
Mohont r,                                                                                                                                                                               L - 8 ' ( 1F JL MUNICIPALITIES
I          *    ~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAE
41                                                                   -------- = s |   1   r >   \   -  /  gBDISTRICT ROUNDARIES
ZONE BOUNDARIES
-'                                                                               )                                                                                       _ , < , f  ;,  / 3DEVELOPMENT REGION BOUNDARIES
-                                                                                                                       -  -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
_   +   t  | -  p   T   I  V     p       - , -    .   ~~~~~~~~~~~G 'A N _D IA K I                r
:E                                                                                                          - ,   !e                                                                                                     28'
A_D                                                                                   I IL
n                             ~~~~~~~INDIA
D I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        oo9o
o         40        80        120       16CELOMEEERS              _                                                                                           -    - T  v (  ~  '    * ~4H+--? :'
0       20      A        60      B0      100MILE5                                                                                                                                JOB6                                   ,
TSE mnA, pos,edbrf. M,n~o p  Dso"'n'n                                                                                                                 \of RhogWoddrno                                        /      ' 
26' 8 -                                            EL                                                  a'                                                 E8-                                                 W B3 86
LJUL  199E









Report No.:        25624
Type:     OCR



