Report No. PIC4200
Project Name              Nepal-Agricultural Research, Extension and...
Training Project (formerly Agricultural...
Technology and Dissemination Project)
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Agriculture/Research & Extension
Project ID                NPPA48026
Borrower                  Kingdom of Nepal
Date This PID Prepared    August 21, 1996
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Agriculture Singha Durba
Kathmandu, Nepal
Telephone No. 977 1 523318/522082
(Project Office)
Facsimile No.   977 1 522439 (Project Office)
Appraisal Date            December 1996
Projected Board Date      April 1997
Objectives
1.   The main objective of the project is to enhance agricultural
productivity through the strengthening of national agricultural
research, extension and training systems. The project would assist in
increasing the contribution of agriculture and rural income,
employment domestic food supply and reducing rural poverty. To
achieve this goal, the project would:
(a) strengthening of institutions related to agricultural
research, extension and training services;
(b) promote decentralized user-oriented research and extension;
(c) emphasize adaptive research with available technologies
developed in-country and elsewhere;
(d) strengthen a coordination mechanism to improve working
relationships among research, extension, education and farmers;
and
(e) maintain a close linkage with relevant international
research institutes and donors for advanced agricultural
information and consultations.
Description
2.   The project would include the following components:
(a) selective rehabilitation of existing infrastructures of
research, extension and training;
(b) program support for research and extension to introduce



priority adaptive research and early adoption of new technology;
(c) upgrading of under-qualified research and extension staff;
(d) strengthening of agricultural communication system; and
(e) intensifying collaboration with international research
center and regional/central research institutes.
Implementation
3.   The project would be implemented over six years by the Ministry
of Agriculture in close collaboration with Nepal Agricultural Research
Council and the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science.
Cost and Financing
4.   Total project costs are tentatively estimated US$44.0 million
subject to a thorough review of project scope and attainability.
Although a financing plan has not been defined, IDA financing could
amount to 909 of the total cost.
Environmental Aspects
5.   The project would have no appreciable environmental impact.
Under the project, the identification of problems and needs, and basic
planning would originate at the village-level through farmer group
approach as the basis for research and extension activities. This
would safeguard the equilibrium of agro-systems and minimize health
hazards. The project would have a positive effect on the environment
by encouraging the sustainable use of localized resource mixes and by
facilitating the generation and wider adoption of more sustainable
technology, including available conservation farming techniques, in
different agro-ecological regions.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 30,
1996.
-2-



