Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2977 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
between 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 18, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2977 NEP 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 1997, between the KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
Page  2
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures 
in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”;  and
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the 
right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit 
for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an 
amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any  time, the Association determines, with respect to any 
contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or 
the execution 
of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for  financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) 
at any time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Agricultural Development Steering Committee” means the committee 
established within MOA by letter of the Borrower to the Association dated January 7, 
1997; 
(b)
“Development Region” means each of the five development regions of the 
Borrower being the Eastern, Central, Western, Mid-western and Far-western regions; 
(c)
“DOA” means the Department of Agriculture of the Borrower; 
(d)
“MOA” means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower; 
(e)
“NARC” means the Nepal Agricultural Research Council, an autonomous 
agency, established by the Nepal Agricultural Research Council Act, 2048; 
(f)
“PCU” means the project coordination unit established in MOA pursuant to 
Ministerial decision of April 10, 1997; 
(g)
“Project District” means each of  the districts of Jhapa, Morang, 
Sunsari, Siraha, Saptari, Bara, Parsa, Chitwan, Dhanusha, Mahottari, Sarlahi, 
Rautahat, Kavrepalanchowk, Bhaktapur, Gorkha, Tanahun, Rupandehi, Kapilvastu, 
Nawalparasi, Banke, Bardia, Kailali, Kanchanpur Ilam, Dhankuta, Makwanpur, Lalitpur, 
Page  3
Dhading, Kaski, Lamjung and Syangja;
(h)
“Project Account” means each of the accounts to be established by the 
Borrower pursuant to Schedule 4, paragraph 2 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(j)
“Technical Advisory Subcommittee” means the committee established in MOA 
pursuant to Ministerial decision of April 28, 1997. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Nepal Rastra Bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on December 15 and June 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each December 15 and June 15 commencing December 15, 2007 and ending June 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2017 shall be 
Page  4
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through NARC and DOA with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural and training practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Page  5
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, including those for the Project 
Accounts and the Special Account, audited for each 
fiscal year 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than nine months after the end of 
each 
such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts be included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contain a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance, of the Borrower is designated 
Page  6
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty’s Government of Nepal
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:
Telex:
ARTHA
2249-ARTHA NP
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ B.B. Thapa 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans Rothenbuhler 
Acting Regional Vice President 
South Asia 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
     % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  7
(1)
Civil Works
  2,740,000
70%
(2)
Goods
  3,820,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expendi-
tures for other items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
  7,990,000
100%
services; training
(4)
Incremental Operating 2,950,000
75% through July 15,
Costs
1998; 50% through 
July 15, 2000; and 
25% thereafter
___________
 17,500,000
TOTAL
 ========== 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
“Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by NARC, DOA 
and PCU for Project-related building, vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, 
utilities, office supplies, field trial expenditures and incremental staff benefits. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,440,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 
1997. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent; and (c) services under contracts not exceeding $50,000 for employment of 
consulting firms and $10,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants, 
respectively, and (d) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the management and capacity of 
agricultural research and extension services by: (a) developing a client-oriented, 
location-specific adaptive agricultural technology; and (b) improving the technology 
delivery system.
Part A:
Research Component
Strengthening organization and management of agricultural research through: 
1.
Development of a Management Information System for NARC, provision of staff 
training and the provision of consultants for research management; 
2.
Provision of technical training for research staff; 
Page  8
3.
Expansion of regional participatory on-farm adaptive research (planned, designed 
and carried out with the participation of farmers) including the formation of 
partnerships with farmer groups, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), private sector 
institutions and other research institutions; 
4.
Carrying out commodity research and thrust area research including conducting 
studies on research prioritization, research program review and research impact 
analysis; 
5.
Construction and rehabilitation of regional and commodity research stations and 
acquisition and utilization of equipment, research materials (including books and 
periodicals) and vehicles at the research stations; and 
6.
Strengthening the ability of NARC to implement research programs through, inter 
alia, financing of incremental operating costs.
Part B:
Extension Services Component
Strengthening of a decentralized extension service to grass-roots institutions 
(including NGOs, farmer groups and local private sector institutions) through: 
1.
Development of a Management Information System for DOA and provision of staff 
training; 
2.
Construction and rehabilitation of Agricultural Service Centers, District 
Agricultural Development Offices, seed laboratories at Regional Directorates of 
Agriculture, and agricultural communication centers and training centers in each 
Development Region; 
3.
Acquisition of equipment, vehicles and extension materials (including books and 
periodicals) for the institutions in paragraph 1 above; 
4.
Strengthening the ability of DOA to implement agricultural extension activities 
through, inter alia, financing of incremental operating costs; 
5.
Technical training of extension staff and farmers; 
6.
Strengthening communication and dissemination of information, through the 
provision of communication materials and radio and television programs; 
7.
Strengthening of the implementation capacity of DOA through the provision of 
adequate funds for allowances for extension staff and consultants for extension 
management, gender sensitization and agricultural communication; and
8.
Carrying out studies to estimate the demand for manpower needs in agriculture, 
and for Project monitoring and impact assessment. 
**
* 
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2002. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  9
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding Works other than those to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Part C, and goods estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping Construction materials, vehicles and equipment estimated to 
cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Materials for agricultural development activities (such as seed, seedlings, 
fertilizer) estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting/Force Account Works which meet the requirements of paragraphs 
3.7 or 3.8 of the Guidelines, to be procured under contracts estimated at less than 
$200,000 and costing $2,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be carried out through direct contracting or by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs of the Guidelines. 
5.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 4 of this Part C. To the extent 
practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or more each.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for 
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
Page  10
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, other 
than a contract on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$50,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  11
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
Implementation Structure
(a) 
To facilitate effective management of the carrying out of the Project, 
the Borrower shall maintain within MOA throughout project implementation:
(i)
the Agricultural Development Steering Committee chaired 
by the Secretary of Agriculture and including senior 
representatives of MOA, the Ministry of Finance, the 
National 
Planning Commission and NARC; 
(ii)
the Technical Advisory Subcommittee chaired by a 
qualified local professional and including senior 
technical research and extension staff, representatives 
of donors, 
NGOs and farmer representatives, with the 
Project Coordinator 
acting as Member Secretary, which 
shall meet periodically, (and no 
less than three times 
in each year) to review the Project and advise 
the 
Agricultural Development Steering Committee; and
(iii)
the Project Coordination Unit (the PCU) charged with 
the overall coordination of the carrying out of the 
Project and with acting as a secretariat for the 
Agricultural 
Development Steering Committee; 
(b)
The PCU shall be headed at all times by a Project Coordinator with 
qualifications, skills and experience acceptable to the Association,  reporting 
directly to the Secretary of Agriculture;
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Agricultural Development Steering 
Committee will, not later than December 31, 1997, adopt and issue a Policy Framework 
Statement, satisfactory to the Association, setting forth a vision for: (i) farmer 
involvement in the identification, design, and implementation of project activities; 
(ii) sustainability of research and extension activities; and (iii) reduction of 
public involvement and increased role of the private sector in agriculture; 
(d)
The Technical Advisory Subcommittee shall hold its first meeting, to set 
performance criteria and modus operandi acceptable to the Association, to be used 
during Project implementation, by no later than January 31, 1998; and 
(e)
By no later than March 31, 1998, NARC shall introduce and implement a 
management information system, acceptable to the Association, at all research stations 
participating in the Project, to enable the Borrower to ensure uniformity in assessing 
performance. 
2.
Project Accounts 
(a)
In order to facilitate Project implementation, and as of the Effective 
Date, the Borrower shall cause NARC, each Project District and each Central and 
Regional Office of DOA to (i) maintain a Project Account to adequately record all 
Project-related expenditures, and (ii) provide in each month of the Project, its 
monthly statements of expenditures to the PCU; and
(b)
In each year until completion of the Project the PCU shall provide to the 
Association:
(i)
by no later than June 30, commencing June 30, 1998, its 
annual work program and budget for the following year 
(including details of civil works, procurement, 
training and 
staffing);
(ii)
by no later than June 30 and December 31, commencing 
June 30, 1998, consolidated progress reports concerning 
implementation of the Project; and
Page  12
(iii)
by no later than January 15, commencing January 15, 
1998, consolidated, unaudited Project Accounts for 
NARC, 
DOA and PCU for the preceding fiscal year. 
3.
Committees and Staff
(a)
Until completion of the Project the Borrower shall retain, within MOA, a 
Project Coordinator and shall not replace the Project Coordinator or nominate a new 
Project Coordinator without prior consultation with the Association;
(b)
The Borrower shall cause NARC and DOA to engage, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, and by no later than December 31, 1997, a 
research management advisor in NARC and an extension management specialist in DOA, 
each with qualifications, skills and experience acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
 The Borrower shall cause DOA, by no later than March 31, 1998:
(i)
to review and thereafter put into effect a plan for the 
distribution of district staff based on identified 
needs 
and agricultural development in Project Districts 
and to formalize 
collaboration between agricultural and 
livestock field staff; and
(ii)
to develop strategies, make budgetary provision and 
thereafter implement incentives to motivate Project 
field 
staff. 
4.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 1999 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
Page  13
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 8,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents 
and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association 
from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
Page  14
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
