RESTRICTED
Report No.   PU-68a
Tlds report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
March 24, 1972
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRiNCY EQUIVALEWTS
Currency Uhit               Ethiopian Dollar (Eth$)
US$ 1.00                    Eth$ 2.30
Eth$ 1.00          =        US$ 0.43
Eth$ 1 million     =US$ 4342,783
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRCNYMS
mm        =   millimeter (0-03937 inches)
cm        =    centimeter (0.3937 inches)
a         =   meter (39.37 inches)
km             kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha             hectare (2.471 acres)
m2        =   square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
m7        =   cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or
264 U.S. gallons)
gallons       U. S. gallons
1         =   liter (0.220 Imperial gallons or
o.264 U.S. gallons)
1/cd      =   liters per capita per day
l/sec          liters per second (19,000 Imperial gallons per day
or 22,800 U.S. g'llons per day)
K3/sec    =   cubic meters per second (19.1 million Inperial
gallons per day or 22.8 million U.S. gallons
per day)
AWSA           Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
IEG       =   Imperial Ethiopian Goverment
GDP       =   Gross Domestic Product
BCECM     =   Bureau Central D'Etudes pour les Equipements
D'Outre-Mer
PAS       =   Public Administration Service
FTSCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE AfDIS AABA WATER SUPPLYA   SEEGE PROJECT
Table of Contento
Page No.
SUMMAILY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................    i - ii
Io INTRODUCTION ....        .........      ........... .........       1
II. WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN ETHIOPIA ..............         2
A.  Background                                                     2
B.  Organization and Administration                                3
C.  External Aid .............
III.  THE BORROWER                                                       5
A.  General  ......................e...............                S
B.  Organization and Administration 5
C.  Accounting and Auditing 5
D.  Management, Staff and Training  ....
E.  Existing Installations and Services Provided...........        7
IV.  THE PROJECT 8.................8
A.  Description                                                    8
B.  Cost Estimates .....9
Co  Loan Amount                                                   10
D.  Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction          10
F.  Procurement and Disbursement 9                                10
F. Land Acquisition and Right-of-Way                              11
G.  Ecological Implications                                       11
V.  JUSTIFICATION               ....................                  12
A.  Background                                                    12
B.  The Market for Water                                          12
C. Water Supply  3 .............13
D.  Sewerage  ....1.....    ...............................       13
E.  Internal Financial Rates of Return u ..................       13
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS .......                                          14
A. Introduction                                                    14
B.  Financial Position - Past and Present                         15
C.  Financing Plan                                                15
D.  Financial Projections                                         17
E.  Tariffs and Rate Covenant ..17
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION 1.....                       9
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions consisting of
Measrs. V. Rajagopalan and R. Smith which visited Addis Ababa in
December 1970 and January 1972.






ErHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
List of Annexes
Annex
1        The Lagadadi Prc'ject
2        Technical Assistance Grait
3        Organization of Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
4        Existing Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Facilities
5        Detailed Description of the Project
6        Cost Estimate of Project
7        Construction Schedule
8        Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9        Population and Water Consumption Statistics and Projections
10        Economic Analysis of Sewerage Project
11        Internal Financial Return on Proposed Project
12        Summarized Financial Statements - 1969 and 1970 - Addis Ababa
Water Supply Administration
13        Estimated Income Statements - 1971-1981
14        Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds - 1971-1981
15        Estimated Balance Sheets - 1971-1981
16        Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
17        Existing Water Rates and Proposed Water and Sewerage Rates
1         Existing and Planned Municipal Water Systems
2         Existing and Proposed Facilities






ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a water distribution system
and sewerage project for the city of Addis Ababa for which a Bank loan of
US$10.8 million equivalent is proposed. The project is the result of a
study made by consultants financed under a Bank technical assistance grant.
Its estimated cost is US$13.0 million equivalent.
ii.       Improvements and extensions of the water distribution system are
urgently required to alleviate acute water shortages in Addis Ababa. The
recently-completed Lagadadi project provides the city with a major new
source of water, which can be effectively used only if these distribution
works are carried out.
iii.      Rivers which are used by some people in the city and downstream
villages for water supply are polluted by sewage and industrial wastes.
The sewerage project is designed to reduce substantially such pollution.
iv.       The water supply portion of the project consists of laying new
water mains to improve the supply in general and to extend service to
presently unserved areas. The sewerage portion of the project consists
of construction of sewers and sewage treatment facilities to serve the
industrial area and a population of about 110,000 people living in the
southern part of the city. The collection of liquid wastes from the
unsewered areas will be improved and the wastes collected will also be
treated at the proposed sewage treatment plant.
V.        The borrower would be the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
(AWSA), an independent entity recently created by the Imperial Ethiopian
Government (IEG). Management consultants financed under a technical
assistance grant provided by the Bank had recommended the changes needed
in the former water supply organization of the Addis Ababa Municipality
to enable it to function as an independent Authority. These recommendations
are being implemented. The Bank can perform a useful role in assisting
the new Authority in its development as a sound public utility.
vi.       All contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Most of the pipes and equipment needed for the
project would be imported but local manufacture of some pipes is possible.
Construction contracts are likely to attract foreign bidders. The foreign
exchange component of the project is currently estimated at about 71%. If
local manufacturers supplied some of the pipes, the foreign exchange
component would be a minimum of about 61 %. In that event, in view of the
financial position of AWSA, i,t is proposed to disburse the full cost of
such pipes from the loan which would involve local currency financing of
a maximum of about US$1.3 million equivalent.



- ii -
vii.      During construction of the project the cash flow of AWSA will
not be sufficient to meet both the local currency requirements of the project
and the payments due on the large debt incurred on account of the Lagadadi
project. In addition, there is a contingent liability (contractor's claims
on the Lagadadi project) involving substantial amounts. Agreement has
been reached on rescheduling a major portion of the Lagadadi debt and to
relieve AWSA from any related debt service payments during the construction
of the project (FY 1972-1977). After completion of the project, AWSA
will be in a position to assume responsibility for servicing the Lagadadi
debt and the proposed Bank loan, and still have enough resources to carry
out routine water supply and sewerage extensions.  In addition, IEG has
agreed to advance funds to AWSA to ensure project completion, to meet
any payments in settlement of the contractor's claims and to meet debt
service on the Lagadadi debt, if AWSA is unable to meet these requirements
fully from its own resources.
viii.     The existing water rates are high and an increase is not contem-
plated as it might tend to restrict the already low per capita consumption
of water. When the sewerage project is completed, AWSA will introduce
sewerage rates and maintain rates for water and sewerage services to
yield a return of at least 8-1/2% on the net fixed assets in service from
FY 1980 onwards. On these bases the internal financial rates of retain
are estimated between 14% and 23% on the water supply portion of the
project and at about 11% on the sewerage portion of the project.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$10.8 million
equivalent for a term of 25 years including a grace period of approximately
5 years. The loan would cover about 71% of the project's cost, equal
to the maximum estimated foreign exchange component, and also includes
US$1.5 million to meet the estimated interest and commitment charges
on the Bank loan during construction. The balance of finance would be
met fram the internally generated funds of the borrower.



ETHIOPIA
APPRATSAL OF THE ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLT AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG) has requested a loan to
finance the foreign exchange cost of a project for improving and extending
the water distribution system and construction of a sewerage system in
Addis Ababa.
1.02      In 1966 at the request of IEG a Bank mission reviewed with the
Municipality of Addis Ababa the need for studies required for the prepa-
ration of a sound project. Bank assistance proved impossible as the
Municipality was not fully convinced of the necessity of detailed feasi-
bility studies and the drought in 1965-66 made it decide to award without
further delay a turn-key contract for the construction of a new reservoir
at Lagadadi (about 28 km northeast of Addis Ababa), a treatment plant,
and a transmission main up to a terminal reservoir located on the outskirts
of the city. This contract was subsequently extended to include construction
of a pipeline to connect the Lagadadi terminal reservoir with the existing
water distribution system in the city and all these works have been
substantially completed. Details of this project are in Annex 1.
1.03      In September 1968 IEG approached the Bank regarding the possibility
of assistance for the construction of the extensions and improvements in
the water distribution system required to utilize the water to be made
available from Lagadadi. Financing was also requested for the first
phase of a sewerage system. The Government recognized the need for an
orderly approach including the preparation of a proper feasibility and
preliminary engineering studies. The Government also recognized the need
for studies Of the administrative improvements required including a
review of the proposed legislation for an autonomous water and sewerage
authority.
1.04      Discussions were accordingly held with the Municipality of
Addis Ababa and following a request from the Mayor of Addis Ababa the
Bank approved in July 1969 a technical assistance grant of US$180,000
for the feasibility and preliminary engineering studies for a water
distribution and sewerage project, and organization and management
studies for the proposed water and sewerage authority. The engineering
studies were carried out by Bureau Central D'Etudes pour les Equipements
D'Outre-Mer (BCEOM) of Paris, France and final reports were received in
November 1970e This study provides the basis for the project. The
management studies were made by Public Administration Service (PAS) of
Chicago, U.S.A., and their report was submtitted in June 1970. Details
of these studies are in Annex 2.



1.05      Appraisal of the project was carried out by a mission composed
of Messrs. V. Rajagcpalan and R. Snith which visited Addis Ababa in
December 1970. Negotiations were commenced in April 1971 but could not
be completed until an agreement was reached to reschedule the debt for
the Lagadadi project in December 1971. In view of the long delay, the
mission returned to Addis Ababa in January 1972 to review the cost
estimates and update the appraisal.
II. WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN ETHIOPIA
A. Background
2.01      Ethiopia occupies an area of about 1.2 million square kilometers,
roughly twice the size of Kenya. Its main physical characteristics are
the central highland camplex of mountains and plateaus which dominate
the country, dissected by the Rift Valley from northeast to the southwest
and the lowlands along the periphery. The altitude ranges from sea level
to over 2,500 meters and the climate varies from tropical to temperate.
Rainfall varies widely within the country, generally increasing with
altitude. Most of the country is well watered by rivers and there
are a number of fresh water lakes which provide abundant storage. Ethiopia
is rather favorably situated from a hydrological point of view to provide
community water supplies but this advantage is somewhat offset as the
total estimated population of 25 million is widely dispersed throughout
the country, giving an overall density of 20 persons per square kilometer.
2.02      The urban population is approximately 10% or about 2.4 million
persons, about half of whom live in the two principal cities of Addis Ababa
(850,0oo) and Asmara (230,000), and the balance in some 250 communities
scattered throughout the country. According to a recent national sample
survey the urban population is increasing by about 6.5% annually. Income
levels are low (1970 per capita GDP = US$64), and as a result, housing
standards are also low. Most of the existing urban water supplies rely on
public taps with about 10% of the houses having private connections0
Consequently, the per capita use of water is extremely low even where it
is available.
2.03      There are only some 30 piped water supply systems in Ethiopia
(see Map 1), of which eight are known to have water treatmnent. Among
them are 21 out of the 22 towns with a population of over 10,000. A
number of wells have been drilled in different rural areas to provide
water supplies and some 300 such wells are in use. Organized sewerage
and sewage disposal systems do not exist at present in the towns except
for a combined storm water and sanitary sewerage system serving parts of
Asmara.



-3-
2.o4      There is a large backlog of work in the sector and the water
supply and sewerage of Addis Ababa, the nation's capital and largest city,
constitute the biggest and mnst urgent problem needing attention.
Addis Ababa is the political, economic and cultural center of Ethiopia
and is of international importance as the headquarters of the United Nations
Economic Commission for Africa and seat of the permanent secretariat of
the Organization of African Unity. Some 23% of all the industrial jobs
in the country are in Addis Ababa where industrial growth has averaged 11%
per annum in recent years. Population growth in the city has been about
6.5% per annum, largely due to migration from other parts of the country,
and the average population density in the built-up areas reaches 12,900
persons per km2. These trends are expected to continue in the coming years.
B. Organization and Administration
2.05      Ethiopia is divided into 14 provinces and each province is under
the charge of a Governor-General. The provinces are further sub-divided
into sub-provinces, districts and sub-districts. There are also over 200
recognized municipalities in these provinces. Many agencies of the
Imperial Ethiopian Government have a role in the provision of community
water supplies and much national legislation relates to water.  In October
1971 IEG announced the establishment of a National Water Resources Commission
to ensure the optimum development of the nation's inland water resources.
The Commission is in the process of being organized and is expected to
be the main coordinating agency in this sector in the future.
2.06      The Municipalities Department of the Ministry of Interior has
a division which is responsible for water supplies to a1l the municipalities
in Ethiopia except in the province of Eritrea and Addis Ababa City. In
future, this division will also be concerned with sewerage systems.
2.07      The former Water Resources Department of the Ministry of Public
Works and Water Resources which has now become the executive agency of
the Water Resources Commission has a division which deals with drilling
of wells for water supplies principally in the rural areas and to some
extent in the urban areas. The environmental health division in the
Ministry of Public Health is expected to look after the public health aspects
including setting cfstandards for water quality control.
2.08      At the local level, Addis Ababa and Asmara are empowered to levy
and collect water and sewerage rates and they do not depend upon IEG
budget allocations for their water supply and sewerage expenditures.
2.09      Throughout the country the general practice is to meter all
water service connections including public standpipes and to charge for
the water supplied. The water rate is fixed by the Government and is
generally Eth$0.50 per cubic meter (US$0.82 per 1,000 gallons) although
in a few oases higher rates up to Eth$1.00 per cubic meter have been
authorized. Water revenues exceed cash expenditures for most systems.



- 4 -
2.10      The water supply and sewerage sector is in a very rudimentary
stage of development in Ethiopia. An adequate organization to deal with
the sector does not exist at the national level and there is a great
dearth of trained managerial and technical personnel to carry out a
planned water supply and sewerage program.  Existing water supply systens
are mostly inadequate and the individual municipalities lack the adminis-
trative, technical and financial means to improve the situation.
2.11      The Ministry of Interior is attempting to prepare water supply
plans for some of the municipalities but the present limited staff in the
water supply division would need considerable technical guidance and manage-
ment assistance for developing and implementing a realistic water supply
program. Some external assistance is being provided as described in the
following paragraph.
C. External Aid
2.12      Within tne past six years external aid for water supplies has
been received from a number of sources.  The Federal Republic of Gemany
financed studies for water supplies in 20 towns and recently provided a
loan of about Eth$5.1 million equivalent for construction of water supplies
in eight of these towns. The total cost of the eight projects is estimated
at about Eth$7.0 million and the loan will finance all the foreign currency
costs and a portion of the local currency costs. The balance of the
local currency costs will be met by IEG. Construction of these projects
is expected to commence shortly. The Federal Republic of Germany has also
offered to consider a further loan for financing construction of water
supplies in the other towns.
2.13      Water supply projects for 33 towns have been studied by Degremont,
a French water treatment equipment firm, which has reportedly offered
to design, construct and finance some of the projects. Assistance has
also been received from USA and Sweden in the ccnstruction of rural water
supply projects. Financial assistance from USSR has been received for
installation of a water supply system at the seaport of Assab. The
main external assistance in this sector has been a loan of Eth$32.5 million
from Italy for the Lagadadi project described in Annex 1.  Assistance
from the Bank Group thus far has been limited to a water supply project
in Humera (under Credit 188-ET for an Agricultural Development Project)
and the technical assistance grant referred to in paragraph 1.04.



-5-
III. THE BORROWER
A. General
3.01      Water supply operations were until recently carried out by the
Water Supply Administration, a semi-independent entity under the Addis Ababa
Municipality. The Municipality considered it desirable to reorganize,
by forming a completely separate authority which would be responsible
for all water supply and sewerage functions, both within the city and in
adjoining developed areas, and prepared a draft charter for establishing
the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA). The charter was
reviewed by the management consultants (paragraph 1.04) who also made
recommendations for reorganizing the Water Supply Administration. The
recommendations have been implemented and AWSA, the borrower, was
established in February 1971 by an executive order of IEG.
B. Organization and Administration
3.02      AWSA is a commercial organization with share capital and power
to pay dividends. The Municipality of Addis Ababa is the sole share-
holder. All the powers of AWSA are vested in a nine-man Board consisting
of the Lord Mayor of Addis Ababa, the Ministers of Interior, Public
Health, Finance and Public Works (or their representatives), one Councillor
elected by the City Council of Addis Ababa, one member appointed by the
&Vteror, the Chief City Engineer of Addis Ababa and the General Manager
of AWSA. The Lord Mayor is the Chairman of the Board and the General
Manager the chief executive responsible for day-to-day operations. The
Municipality has transferred to AWSA all assets and liabilities relating
to water supply and sewerage. AWSA is ewowered to borrow money; fix,
impose and collect tariffs; regulate sewage disposal; require sewer
connections; control the development of private wells; and generally
issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out its functions
properly. AWSA is exempted from all taxes and from customs duties on
equipment and materials used for water and sewerage works.
3.03      The General Manager is assisted by a Chief Engineer responsible
for all engineering operations, a Finance Director responsible for financial
and commercial operations, and administrative staff.  Details of AWSA1s
organization and administration are given in Annex 3. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that any material change in the structure of
AWSA would be made only after consultation with the Bank.
C. Accounting and Auditing
3.04      The accounting system was reviewed by the management consultants
and changes have been recommended. The revised system is based on sound
utility practice including maintenance of detailed plant records and
recording of revenue.s and costs on an accrual basis. The Chief Accountant
is competent to implement the necessary changes. Assurances were obtained



- 6 -
during negotiations that AWSA's accounts would be audited annually by an
independent accountant acceptable to the Bank and that such audited
statements would be submitted to the Bank within four months after the
close of the financial year.
D. Management, Staff and Training
3.05      AWSA is presently under the charge of a General Manager who is
familiar with the project and is suitable for the position. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would consult the
Bank about any proposed future appointment to the position of General
Manager in advance of such appointment.
3.06      AWSA has at present a salaried staff of 504 and a daily wage staff
of 430. Reorganization of the administrative sections and the finance
department have been completed and key staff appointed. Management assis-
tance provided under the Bank grant ended in March 1971, but these reorganized
units need further management support from consultants in the implementation
of the new administrative and financial procedures. Funds to meet the
foreign exchange costs of management consultants for a further period of
two years have been included in the proposed loan. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that management consultants acceptable to the
Bank will be engaged for at least two years to assist AWSA.
3.07      Operation and maintenance of existing water supply facilities
have suffered considerably due to lack of adequate supervisory staff. The
present Chief Engineer is an expatriate on contract service who has been
with the Water Supply Administration for over 30 years. In addition to
the Chief Engineer there are four qualified engineers in the department,
two of whnm have been recently appointed. The staffing situation has been
reviewed with AWSA and assurances have been obtained on the action to be
taken for adequate staffing of the department and training of the staff.
AWSA needs the services of an advisor to assist in developing design
standards, specifications, etc. for the works to be carried out by the
department, improving the operations of the water treatment plants aid
distribution system, and providing in-service training to staff at all
levels. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AWSA will seoure
for its engineering department for at least two years the services of a
qualified and experienced advisor acceptable to the Bank. Funds have
been included in the proposed loan to meet the foreign exchange costs
for the services of an advisor for two years.
3.08      In addition to the in-service training mentioned above, overseas
training is required for some of the senior staff to get acquainted with
management of public utilities in general and water and sewerage operations
in particular. The proposed loan includes US$25,000 to meet the foreign
exchange costs of such training which would be agreed upon between the
Bank and AWSA. These funds will be used only if AWSA is unable to get
fellowships from other international agencies or bilateral sources.



-7-
E. Existing Installations aid Services Provided
3.09      The water system serves mainly domestic consumers. The industrial
and commercial customers& use only about 8% of the AWSA supply since most
of them have their otm wells.  The per capita conswqtion is only about
30 liters per day (about 8.0 gallons per day). There are approoximately
43,000 house service connections serving some 550,000 persons and about
150,000 people depend upon 255 public taps for their minjimum daily require-
ments of water. The rest of the population use water from local streams.
3.10      Until recently the main source was the Gafarsa reservoir which
supplies about 25,000 m5 of water per day. It is supplemented by a few
springs and wells located at different parts of the city. Since November
1970, an additional daily supply of water estimated at 50,000 ma  per day
has been available from the Lagpdadi project. The supply from these
sources is fully treated before distribution. AWSA has agreed to maintain
records of the reservoir levels, spillway discharges, etc. to enable
fluture management of the reservoir to maximum advantage. Although water
supply sources, treatment and transmission facilities are available to
provide a satisfactory service to the inhabitants the means to distribute
the water are grossly inadequate.
3.11      The existing distribution system consists mostly of old small-
diameter pipes, laid without a proper analysis of demand in the service
areas. Consequently, the supply is intermittent and pressures are very
low in some areas. Interruptions in supply occur frequently. Control
over the quality of water is only nominal. In general, considerable
improvement in service is needed.
3.12      The supply is completely metered and the water rate is Eth$0.50/m3.
The billing and collection functions are carried out reasonably well and
bad debts'are small.
3.13      There is no public sewerage system in Addis Ababa but AWSA
operates a vacuum truck service for the collection of liquid wastes
from cesspools and septic tanks. A charge of Eth$25 is levied for each
truckload of wastes collected. The existing fleet of trucks is insufficient
to meet the demand and the present arrangements for disposal of the liquid
wastes are unsatisfactory. The project includes provision for improving
the liquid waste collection and disposal facilities, to serve areas which
will not be covered by the project's sewerage system.
3.14      Annex 4 gives a detailed description of existing insta1l1ations
in Addis Ababa.



- 8 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project constitutes mainly AWSA's construction program for
1972-77. It includes construction of the following:
Water Supply
(i) about 100 km of primary distribution lines;
(ii) about 360 km of secondary distribution lines;
(iii) three reservoirs; and
(iv) seven pumping stations.
Sewerage
(i) about 150 km of major and minor sewers; and
(ii) a sewage treatment plant.
In addition, funds for the purchase of six vacuum trucks with accessories,
water meters and certain equipment needed for maintenance, and funds for
engineering services, management assistance to AWSA and training of staff
are included under the project.
4.02      The water distribution mains will replace some of the old mains,
strengthen parts of the existing network and extend siupply to newly
developed areas. With the construction of the new reservoirs and pumping
stations, the supply to the high level zones in the northern part of the
city Will improve.
4.03      The sewerage portion of the project constitutes the first phase
of a planned sewerage system which will serve the entire city in the future.
The project will serve a population of 110,000 in the southern part of
the city, encompassing the entire business center and the fastest developing
residential and industrial areas. The sewage collected from these areas
will be conveyed by an outfall sewer to a treatment plant which will be
built on a 20 hectare plot outside the city limits where sedimentation
followed by biological treatment in oxidation canals will be provided.
The treated effluent will be discharged into the Akaki River.
4.04      The vacuum trucks to be purchased will assist in the collection
of liquid wastes from the unsewered areas. The wastes so collected will
also be treated at the proposed treatment plant.
4.05      The detailed description of the project is in Annex 5. Major
components of the project are shown on Map 2.



-9-
B. Cost Estimates
4.o6      The project cost is sumnarized in the following table and is
detailed in Annex 6 on a year by year basis for the engineering, cons-
truction ad disbursement period, 1972-77.
COST ESTIMATE
Eth$ (millions)               US$ (millions)
Local  Foreign  Total        Local  ForeiFn  Total
Water Supply
Pipes and equipment          -       8.3     8.3           -       3.6     3.6
Civil works                 2.4      1.0     3.4          1.0     O.4      1.4
Land                        0.3       -      0.3          0.1      -       0.1
Engineering                 0.3      0.8     1.1          0.1     O.4      0.5
Contingencies - Physical    0.5      0.9     1.4          0.2     0.4      0.6
Price       0.1     0.6     0.7           0.1     0.2    _23
Sub-total:  Water        3.6    11.6    15.2           1.5     5.0      6.5
Sewerage
Pipes and equipment           -      5.2     5.2           -       2.3     2.3
Civil works                  2.3     1.7     4.0          1.0     0.8      1.8
Land and conpensation        1.7      -      1.7          0.7       -      0.7
Engineering                 0.2      o.6     0.8          0.1      0.3     0.4
Contingencies - Physical    0.5      0.7     1.2          0.2      0.3     0.5
Price       0.3     0.9      1.2          0.1     0.4    .2.5
Sub-total:  Sewerage     5.0      9.1    14.1          2.1     4.1    6.2
Management Consultants'
Services and Training       0.1      0.6     0.7          0.1      0.2     003
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT        8.7    21      30.0          3.7     L3    1
4.07      Construction costs are derived from estimates made by BCEOM
(paragraph 1.04) and are based on preliminary designs and current quotations
for equipment and materials taking into account the recent realignment of
currencies. Sewerage works similar to those included in the project have
not been previously constructed in Ethiopia. Provision has been made for
physical contingencies of about 20% on civil works and 10% on imported
goods, and for price increases of about 5% per amnum on both.  The higher
contingency allowence provided in respect of civil works is necessary since
changes in the alignment of water and sewer mains may be needed during
construction due to unforeseen soil or other conditions. The estimated costs
of engineering consulting services include detailed engineering, preparation
of contract documents and supervision of construction.



- 10 -
C. Loan Amount
4.08      A loan of US$10.8 million equivalent is proposed to cover the
estimated foreign exchange component of the project of US$9.3 million and
interest during construction on the Bank loan of US$1.5 million.
D. Desigi, Construction and Supervision of Construction
4.09      AWSA would be responsible for project implementation but since it
does not have adequate staff, it proposes to engage BCEOM W prepare
detailed designs and tender documents, evaluate tenders and supervise
construction. This arrangement is satisfactory. Because of the critical
water distribution problem, the consultants should begin work as soon as
possible. However, to obviate undue delay, AWSA agreed during negotiations
to engage consultants not later than two months from the date of the loan
signing. The engagement of engineering consultants will be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan. Retroactive financing of the foreign exchange
costs of consultants' services incurred after January 1, 1972 is proposed.
4.10      The project would be constructed by contractors except for some
of the secondary water distribution network and sewerage house service
connections which would be carried out by AWSA with its own labor force.
AWSA would provide the pipes for the sewerage house connections. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that all properties suited for sewer
service will be required to connect to the sewerage system.
4.11      After project completion, modest annual investments will be
required on the secondary water network up to 1981 and the secondary sewerage
network up to 1986 to continue connection to households in order to fully
utilize the facilities. These works will be done by AWSA. By 1981 the
existing water production facilities are expected to be fully utilized
and a new major program will have to be initiated prior to this date.
Timing will depend tpon the actual growth in demand and the maximum capacity
of the Lagadadi facilities.
4.12      The project is expected to be completed by the end of December
1976. The construction schedule is shown in Annex 7.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
4.13      All contracts will be subject to international competition.  The
pipes and equipment required for the project are expected to be procured
from abroad. There is at present no local manufacturing capacity to produce
the pipes needed for this project although limited quantities of small
diameter pipes are manufactured.  However, iv would be possible, at short
notice, to set up a factory to manufacture sewer pipes after the loan has
been approved. There are no restrictions on"imports and AWSA will be
exempted from customs duties (paragraph 3.02).



- 11 -
4.14      The construction ccntracts are likely to attract bids from
foreign contractors but local contractors with foreign affiliations are
expected to compete successfully. The foreign exchange ccmponent of
civil works contracts has beon estimated at 50% on the basis of BCEOM's
experience with similar projects in Africa and water supply works recently
carried out in Addis Ababa. This is considered reasonable.
4.15      It is proposed that the actual foreign exchange cost of imported
goods and 50% of the cost of civil works contracts be disbursed from the
loan. No disbursements are proposed against those secondary distribution
system works and house service connections carried out by AWSA with its own
labor force. If some of the pipes needed for the project are supplied
locally on the basis of international tendering, it is proposed that the
full cost of such pipes be disbursed frou the loan. This would involve
local currency financing of a maximum of about US$1.3 million equivalent.
This is proposed taking into consideration the financial position of AWSA.
Disbursements fran the loan are also proposed against the foreign exchange
costs of the engineering and management consultants (paragraphs 3.06 and
4.09), the engineering advisor (paragraph 3.07) and staff training
(paragraph 3.08). An estimated disbursement schedule is in Annex 8.
4.16      In the event of there being savings in the loan, it is intended
that the unused balance would be cancelled.
F. Land Acquisition and Right-of-Way
4.17      Land for the three water supply reservoirs and the sewage treatment
plant as well as some of the sites for the pumping installations will have
to be acquired. No problems are foreseen. However, in respect of sewer
laying, especianly the mains along the river banks, difficulties may be
encountered as there are unauthorized constructions which will have to be
removed. During the 1970 cholera outbreak in Addis Ababa, the Municipality
was able to broaden some of the roads and open up new roads in congested
areas by demolishing existing structures in the way. The Mayor of Addis
Ababa does not foresee any difficulty in removing the unauthorized cons-
tructions on the sewer routes, but expects that some ccapensation may be
required in some instances. Provision for this has been made in the project
cost estimates.
G. Ecological ImDlications
4.18      The streams passing through the city are now grossly polluted
with human wastes and with untreated wastes from the industries located
in the southern part of the city. During the dry season the untreated
liquid wastes from the inhabited areas constitute the main flow in the
streams in some sections. These streams are used as drinking water
sources by some of the inhabitants of Addis Ababa and the downstream
rural population. Most of the untreated sewage flowing into the streams
will be intercepted by the proposed sewerage system and the quality of
their waters will be substantial1y improved. The collected sewage wil



- 12 -
be treated adequately before discharging into the Akaki River. The proposed
improvement of the collection and disposal of effluents from septic tanks
in the unsewered areas of the city would diminish soil pollution and result
in general ifProvement in the cleanliness of the city.  The increased
availability of piped water resulting from the distribution extensions under
the project would reduce the people of Addis Ababa's dependence on the
polluted streams.
V. JUSTIFICATION
A. Background
5.01      The importance of Addis Ababa and the need for the water distri-
bution and sewerage project have already been described. Projections of
total population and water consumption up to 1981 are shown in Annex 9.
The projections indicate that the existing source facilities after allowing
for normal system losses will be sufficient to meet the expected demand up
to about 1981. A major objective of the project is to strengthen and
expand the distribution system in order to meet this demand.
5.02      In the absence of a sewerage system, natural water courses in
the city are polluted by sewage and industrial wastes. The sewerage
project is designed to reduce such pollution substantially. Up-to-date
health statistics for the city are not available but typhoid fever,
infectious hepatitis, amoebic dysentery, diarrhea and gastro-enteritis
are known to be endemic in the city, indicating the serious health problems
caused by deficiencies in water and sanitation services.
5.03      The problens were further accentuated by the incidence of cholera
in the city in 1970. Reportedly, cholera vibrio, the causative organism,
was isolated from some of the water courses and a survey indicated that
a number of the private sources of water were grossly polluted. Steps
were taken to control the spread of cholera by mass inoculation and quarantine
measures, but a permanent solution can only be found by improving the water
supply and sanitation in the city. The project is therefore an urgent
and essential measure.
B. The Market for Water
5.04      Improvement and expansion of the water distribution network was
proposed following a detailed study of water demand by the consultazlts.
Analysis of production and consumption during 1960-69 indicated an average
annual increas, of 9% in both cases. The consultants have projected
future average annual growth between 8% and 13.5%, witp a most probable
growth of about 10% per annum. These are considered to be reasonable
assumptions.



- 13 -
C. Water Supply
5.05      The town planning development of Addis Ababa is such that the
primary dibtribution network; consisting of pipes of 100 mm and larger
diameters to meet the projected water demand until 1981, will have to
follow generally the configuration of the existing primary network. The
estimated costs of alternative primary distribution network improvements
and extensions to meet the projected demand in each zone were compared,
and the proposed scheme was found to be the most profitable at discount
rates of 15% or less. For the secondary network which consists of smaller
diameter pipes, the problem was studied on an area basis and estimates of
the lengths of pipes to be laid year by year for the city as a whole were
determined. The actual installation will, as in the past, be made only
after verifying that each secondary pipeline extension is justified
financially.
D. Sewerage
5.06      Based on the topography of the area and the pattern of rainfall
the consultants have rightly recommended the construction of a separate
sanitary sewerage system rather than a combined system which would also
carry stormwater. This approach leads in this case to the least cost
solution to both problems. The areas to be sewered were selected in two
successive steps. First those areas having the highest cost of night soil
collection and septic tank maintenance were chosen. The selection of zones
in these areas was then made on the basis of present and projected water
consumption. Having thus selected the areas to be sewered, the consultants
examined three alternative projects, obtaining preliminary cost estimates
in each case. They recommended the project on the basis of a cost:benefit
analysis which included allowance for non-financial benefits of sewerage
(Annex 10). The primary sewerage network is designed to meet the needs
in the areas served up to about 1986.
E. Internal Financial Rates of Return
5.07      While the internal financial rate of return on the water project
is sensitive to variations in project cost and water demand the returns
remain acceptable with all probable variations of cost and demand.   If the
water demand grows as forecast the return would be about 23% at present
day costs and prices (Annex 11). An increase in project cost of 20% would
reduce the return to approximately 17%, while a slower growth in water
consumption to the minimum probable growth (Annex 9) would reduce the
return to 18%. A combination of both these factors would result in a
return of about 14%. The return is only marginally sensitive to variations
in operating costs.
5.08      The internal financial rate of return on the sewerage project
is about 11% (Annex 11) on the assumption that sewerage rates would be a
75% surcharge on water bills. There are no sewerage rates at present and
the return will depend on the rate eventually fixed. Sewerage rates will



- 14 -
be based on cost recovery, including a return on capital (paragraph 6.11),
so that increased project costs will be reflected eventually in higher
rates, the effect on the rate of return thus being basically brought about
by differences in timing between increases in expenditures and increases
in revenues. The effect of a 20% increase in construction costs would
be to increase rates from a 75% surcharge on water bills to an 85%
surcharge, with a reduction in the internal financial rate of return to
approximately 10%. A reduction in number of consumers connected would be
offset by an increase in tne rate charged so that the rate of return would
be unchanged. The effect of a 20% increase in costs coupled with a 10%
reduction in connections would be to increase the 75% surcharge to appr-oxi-
mately 90% and the return would remain unchanged at about 10%. The return
is only marginally sensitive to variations in operating costs.
5.09      The consultants have tried to look beyond the strictly financial
implications of the sewerage project and attempted to estimate the economic
benefits stemming from it.  The methodology employed by the consultants,
which is considered reasonable, indicates that the internal economic rate
of return of the sewerage project would be at least 13% (Annex 10).
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTb
A. Introduction
6.01      A principal problem associated with the financing of this project
i the large debt incurred on account of the Iagadadi project (Annex 1).
This debt is in two parts: a first loan of Eth$25.0 million at 5.9%
interest per annum for a tenm of ten years, of which Eth$20.9 million
remained outstanding at the end of Fl 1971; and a second loan of Eth$7.5
million at an interest rate of 7.5% per annum for a term of nine years
commencing December 31, 1971, of which Eth$7.1 million is presently out-
standing. without expansion of the distribution system, the water supply
cperations cannot provide sufficient funds to meet debt service on the
above loans. On the other hand, capital is needed to build the distri-
bution system expansions necessary to supply water from the Lagadadi
project to the consumers. Therefore, the Lagadadi debt repayment terms
had to be renegotiated.
6.02      It has been agreed between the Italian Government on behalf ol
the lender for the Lagadadi project and IIG tnat a 5-year moratorium
ending June 30, 1976 will be granted on all payments of principal and
interest in respect of tne outstanding amount of the first loan of
Eth$25.0 million. It is understood that the term of the loan is also
to be extended by 5 years from December 31, 1979 to December 31, 1984.
However, details of the repayment tenis for the period July 1, 1976 to
December 31, 1984 have not yet been settled.  No rescheduling of the
second loan of Etn$7.5 million is proposed.  IiG has agreed to provide funds



- 15 -
to AWSA in connection with all liabilities arising from the Lagadadi project
as well as for project completion, to the extent AWSA is unable to meet its
obligations from its own resources. These actions, together with the
additional capital to be provided under the proposed Bank loan, will ensure
adequate funds for the construction of the project.
B. Financial Position - Past and Present
6.03      Prior to 1957, the utility functioned as a municipal operating
department with revenues deposited and expenditures met from the city's
general fund. In 1957 the department was changed into a semi-independent
organization of the Addis Ababa Municipality, the Water Supply Administration,
and functioned in this manner until AWSA was formed in 1971 (paragraph 3.01).
Summarized income and cash flow statements of the Water Supply Administration
for 1969 and 1970, together with a summarized balance sheet for 1970, are
shown in Annex 12. The assets shown in this balance sheet are under-
valued principally due to the use of excessive depreciation rates in prior
years. Appropriate adjustments have been incorporated in the agreed opening
balance sheet for AWSA as of July 7, 1971 as shown in Annex 15.
6.04      The executive order of February 1971 transferred all assets and
liabilities of the Water Supply Administration to AWSA in exchange for an
issue of shares to the Municipality, the sole shareholder in the Authority.
Shares have been issued to the Municipality for a total par value equal
to the net value of the assets shown on the balance sheet referred to
above.
C. Financing Plan
6.05      A forecast of sources and application of funds for the years
1971-1981 is in Annex 14, and the financing plan for the years of project
implementation 1972-1977 is summarized below.



- 16 -
Us$
Equivalent
Eth$ OOO s   Millions     %
Application of Funds
Construction expenditures - Project -
Water Supply                                 15,500        6.74       39.14
Sewerage                                    14h500         6.31       36.9
Interest during construction on Bank loan        3,450        1.50        8.8
Construction expenditures by AWSA -
Water Supply                                  1,300        0.57        3.3
Increase in working capital                    ,4,558         1.99       11.6
39,308       17.11      100.0
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                        25,1455      11.06       64.6
Less:   Debt service requirements               11,120        4.84       28.3
Net cash generation                             14,335        6.22       36.3
Proposed IBRD loan - Water Supply               13,800        6.00       35.1
Sewerage                  10,950        4.80       28.1
Balance of loans for Lagadadi project              223        0.09        0.5
39,308       17.11      100.0
The above financing plan is based on the following assumptions:
(i)  Lagadadi debt service payments on the Eth$7.5 million would
be made as originally scheduled but no payments of interest
or principal would be made on the Eth$25.0 million loan
until after July 7, 1976. Interest would be accumulated
during this period and added to the principal amount
outstanding, with subsequent repayment of the revised loan
amount during the period December 1976 to December 1984
(paragraph 6.02);
(ii)  No cash dividends would be paid during the period
(paragraph 6.08); and
(iii)  The Bank loan would bear interest at 7-1/4% per annum and
be for a term of 25 years, to be repaid in 40 semi-annual
installments commencing in October 1977.



- 17 -
Under the above financing plan IEG is not required to provide any funds
towards the construction of the project since AWSA is expected to generate
from its operations sufficient funds to meet the local currency expenditures
of the project. However, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would provide any funds required to complete the constm ction
of the project, if AWSA's funds were insufficient for the purpose.
D. Financial Projections
6.o6      Estimated income statements for water and sewerage operations for
the period 1971-1981 are shown in Annex 13 and an estimated sources and
applications of funds statement is in Annex 14. Estimated balance sheets
for 1971-1981 are in Annex 15 and the assumptions for these financial fore-
casts are detailed in Annex 16.
6.07      The projections indicate an increase in cash in excess of Eth$4.5
million over the project construction period, with resulting cash on hand
at June 1977 of approximately Eth$5.6 million. This would nor%ally be
considered excessive but there are two factors which require that substantial
cash be available. There is a contingent liability of approximately
Eth$15.0 million in contractor's claims in connection with the Lagadadi
project (Annex 1). In addition, during the years 1978 to 1980 there are
cash deficits totalling Eth$3.1 million. It is therefore considered
prudent to maintain cash balances at the levels indicated. If AWSA is
required to make payments in excess of its available resources, Government
has agreed to meet the shortfall both with regard to the contingent liability
and Lagadadi debt service as rescheduled.
6.08      The executive order establishing AWSA provides it with powers to
create reserves for financing futare expansion prior to determining profits
available for dividends. The order also includes provision for payment
of such dividends by issue of shares to the Municipality unless the City
Council (exercising its shareholder's rights) by a two-thirds majority
resolves that payment be in cash. In view of the contingent liability,
the need to ensure the provision of local currency requirements for the
project, and the moratorium on the Lagadadi debt, AWSA has agreed that
the payment of dividends during the project construction period be restricted
to issue of shares. In the subsequent years AWSA has agreed that cash
dividends may be paid only after making adequate provision for the require-
ments of capital works and debt service during the following year. No
restrictions have been placed on payment of dividends by issue of shares.
E. Tariffs and Rate Covenant
6.09      Existing water rates and proposed water and sewerage rates are
shown in Annex 17. Daring FT 1971 water from public standpipes was supplied
without charge as one of the measures taken to reduce the danger of the
cholera epidemic in the city.
6.10      In the case of water supply, the existing rate of Eth$0.50/m3
(about Us$0.82/1,000 gallons) is one of the highest rates among the major



- 18 -
cities in Africa. The proportion of total revenues generated from industrial
consumers in Addis Ababa is lower than in most other cities. Projections
indicate that with the existing water rates the return on net fixed assets
in service will be only 5.2% in 197X, 7.5% in 1975 and will not exceed
8.5% until 1980. The existing water rates are high and further increase
is not contemplated as it might tend to restrict the already very low per
capita consumption. The returns, lower in the earlier years because of
the limited utilization of the Lagadadi works, are considered acceptable.
6.11      Sewerage rates will be introduced when the sewerage project comes
into operation. In some cities a part of the sewerage charge is collected
by means of assessments on property; but in the case of Addis Ababa, both
the machinery for assessing properties and the procedures for collection
are inadequate, so that a surcharge on the water bill is considered to be
the only practical collection method for the present. It is estimated that
a surcharge of 75% on water bills for premises connected to the sewerage
system will be required to cover operating costs including depreciation
and provide a modest return in the initial years of operation. The return
on net fixed assets would reach at least 8-1/2% by FY 1981, by which time
a reasonable degree of utilization of the system is expected to be achieved.
However, management consultants to be engaged by AWSA (paragraph 3.06)
would further examine this question and make recommendations on the
sewerage rates and rate structure before commencement of sewerage services.
6.12      Presently a charge of Eth$25 per truck for the emptying of septic
tank and cesspool effluents is levied. The revenues from the operation do
not cover the costs fully at present and this appears to be due partly
to the inefficient use of the existing trucks. AW3A has recently taken over
the responsibility for this function, and the entire operation, including
the collection charges, is being reviewed. Adjustments will be made in the
charges to make the operation self-supporting.
6.13      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the existing
water rates will not be changed during the period of construction of the
project without prior approval of the Bank. Assurances were also obtained
that AWSA will establish and maintain charges for its water, sewerage
and sewage collection services sufficient to provide a return on the combined
net value of fixed assets in service of not less than 5.0% in FY 1976,
6.0% in FT 1977, 7.0% in FY 1978, 8.0% in FY 1979 and 8.5% in FY 1980
and for each year thereafter.
6.14      These rates of return are recomuended after taking into consideration
the projected cash flow requirements, including provision of funds to ensure
adequate expansion of secondary networks and connections up to 1981.
6.15      The existing water production facilities are expected to be fully
utilized by about 1981. To meet additional demand a new major program
will have to be undertaken.  Annual extensions to the water distribution
network and the sewerage system will also be required to serve newly
developing areas. AWSA is expected to generate small surpluses towards



- 19 -
these programs under these financial projections but additional borrowing
will be necessary for any major construction program.
6.16      AWSA has agreed that during the project construction period
additional long-term debt will not be incurred without Bank approval.
For the remaining life of the loan, AWSA has agreed that additional
long-term debt will not be incurred without Bank approval unless net
revenues for the previous year cover maximum future debt service on
existing and proposed debt at least 1.5 times.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECaMMENDATION
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  Any material change in the organizational structure of
AWSA would be made only after consultation with the
Bank (paragraph 3.03);
(b)  The Engineering Departuent will be adequately staffed, the
services of an engineering advisor will be obtained for
at least two years, and training of staff in accordance
with an agreed program will be carried out (paragraphs 3.07
and 3.08);
(c)  IEG will provide funds to the Authority if, at any time,
AWSA's resources are inadequate to meet expenditures required
for the project, or to discharge any liabilities connected
with the Lagadadi project (paragraphs 6.05 and 6.07);
(d) The payment of dividends will be restricted to the issue
of shares during the project oonstruction period. In the
subsequent years, cash dividends will be paid only after
making provision for the requirements of capital works
and debt service during the following year (paragraph 6.08);
(e) AWSA will maintain its existing water rates during the
period of construction of the project and establish and
maintain charges for its water, sewerage and sewage
collection services sufficient to provide a return on the
combined net value of fixed assets in service of not
less than 5.0% in FY 1976; 6.0% in FY 1977; 7.0% in FY 1978;
8.0% in FY 1979; and 8.5% in FY 1980 and for each year
thereafter (paragraph 6.13).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness of the loan will be the engagement
of engineering consultants (paragraph 4.09).



- 20 -
7.03      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$10.8 million for a term of 25 years to be repaid in 40 semi-annual
installments commencing in October 1977.
March 24, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
ETHI0PIA
ADDIS ABAAA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
The Lagadadi Project
Background
1.        Following the drought in 1964, the Gafarsa reservoir, the main
source of water supply to Addis Ababa, almost became dry and the city was
threatened by a serious water famine. On the basis of studies made by
consultants the Municipality had called for tenders for the construction
of the Gafarsa II scheme which included a dam, treatment plant, etc.
Before the acceptance of an offer for this scheme, Messrs. Salini
Costruttori  of Rome, an Italian contractor, approached the Municipality
and offered to design and construct another scheme at Lagadadi for
approximately Eth$21.0 million, which at that cost would have resulted
in a unit cost of stored water less than that of the proposed Gafarsa II
scheme. Financing proposals for construction of the project were also
offered.
2.        A technical committee set up by the Municipality reviewed and
recommended acceptance of Salini's offer and in July 1966 the Municipality
entered into a preliminary agreement with Salini for the execution of
the works. In January 1967 the Municipality appointed as engineers for
the project W. S. Atkins & Partners (Ethiopia) Ltd., British consultants,
to examine and agree on the suitability of designs made by Salini before
work started on the site, supervise construction, certify payments and
to make final recommendations regarding acceptance of the project. On
the basis of the engineer's recommendation the Municipality entered into
a contract with Salini in April 1967 for the construction of the project
in the sum of Eth$23,389,762.52. The Municipality obtained a loan for
the equivalent of Eth$25.0 million from ICIPU (Istituto di Credito per
le Imprese di Pubblica Utilita), an Italian financing agency, for the
construction of the project with an IEG guarantee. The loan carried an
interest rate of 5.9% per annum and was to be repaid in Italian currency
over 10 years (from June 30, 1970 to December 31, 1979). All goods and
services were to be procured from Italy. The conpletion date for the
whole project was specified as May 1, 1970 under a supplementary agree-
ment and dates for partial filling of the reservoir and commissioning of
the treatment plant were also agreed to.
Scope of the Project
3.        Originally, the construction of a thin arch dam across the
Sendefa River at Lagadadi was envisaged but this was changed subsequently
as the site was not suitable. The contract provided for the construction
of a concrete main dam 45 meters high and 450 meters long, a rock fill
subsidiary dam about 14.5 meters high and about 560 meters long, intake



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
tower and ancillary works, a 50,000 m3 per day capacity water treatment
plant, 22 km of 900 mm diameter steel transmission main and a terminal
reservoir of 20,000 m3 capacity. Later the contract was extended to
include the provision of a 900 mm diameter cannecting pipeline between
the terminal reservoir and the existing distribution system in the city.
This addition designated as the emergency project was intended to enable
the use of the Lagadadi supply without any delay and was estimated to
cost about Eth$3.0 million.
4.        The construction of the project was delayed, however, due to
several reasons. Substantial design changes were necessary during
project construction leading to delays and increase in the costs. The
Municipality had to seek additional financing for the project which it
obtained from ICIPU in the amount of Eth$7.5 million equivalent in April
1970 under a supplementary loan agreement. This loan carries an interest
rate of 7.5% per annum and is repayable over a 9-year period from
December 31, 1971 to June 30, 1980.
5.        The contractor stopped construction of the project after the
initial loan amount of Eth$25.0 million was used until interim financing
was arranged. As a result of these delays the water from the Lagadadi
source could be used only from November 1970. Even then the contractor
had not fully completed the works. However, the engineers appointed by
the Municipality issued in November 1970 a certificate of substantial
completion and also reached an agreement with the contractor for completion
of the outstanding items of work within specified periods of time. Most
of the items of work have since been completed. The completed works were
inspected by the engineers in November 1971 and the deficiencies and the
remaining works to be completed under the contract have been pointed out.
The Municipality has asked the contractor to rectify the deficiencies
and complete the work.
6.        Up to the end of December 1971, on the basis of certificates
issued for the works completed, about Eth$31.7 million has been paid to
the cantractor and about Eth$0.3 million has been retained for a one-
year period. In addition, there are a number of unresolved payment
disputes and the contractor's claims over the engineer's certified amounts
total to about Eth$15.0 million. A committee of senior Ethiopian
engineers appointed by the Municipality has recently concluded its exami-
nation of the contractor's claims and the engineer's report thereon
and the contractor has been invited to start negotiations at the beginning
of April 1972. In the meanwhile, the contractor has independently commenced
arbitration proceedings with the International Chamber of Commerce, Paris.
7.        AWSA has agreed to maintain correct records of the reservoir
levels and spillway discharges to enable future management of the reservoir
to maximum advantage. Under the present forecasts of water consumption,
this source is expected to be fully utilized by 1901 if the reservoir
yields 50,000 m3/day.



ANNl;X 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
Debt Service
8.        The original loans to the Municipality as negotiated would have
required more than Etn$4.0 million for debt service from fiscal year 1972
onwards. since the annaal cash generation of the enterprise would not
be sufficient tomteet sucn commitments, the Municipality has therefore
renegotiated the outstanding balance on the Stn$25.0 million loan and an
agreement has been reached between the Italian Government on behalf of
the lender for the Lagadadi project and IP;G, under which a moratorium will be
granted to postpone both interest and principal repayments for a five-
year period ended June 30, 1976. It is understood that the term  of the
loan is also to be extended from December 31, 1979 to December 31, 1984.
Details of subsequent repayment terms have not been settled but for the
purpose of financial projections it has been assumed that interest
deferred will be accumulated during this period at the rate of 6% per
annum and added to the principal amount outstanding with the revised
capital sum being repaid over the period December 1976 to December 1984.
9.        In view of the outstanding claims by the contractor and the
heavy debt service requirements, the Imperial Ethiopian Govermnent has
undertaken to advance funds to assist the Authority in discharging its
liabilities, should this become necessary. In tne event that funds
are so advanced the Government has further agreed not to require repayment
by the Authority until after June 30, 19800
February 20, 1972






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Technical Assistance Grant
1.        The Bank approved on July 15, 1969 a technical assistance grant
of US$180,000 to meet the foreign exchange costs of studies for a water
supply and sewerage project in Addis Ababa. The grant was requested by
the Mayor of Addis Ababa for carrying out the feasibility stadies and
preliminary engineering for a water distribution and sewerage project
and for an organization and management study for the proposed Water and
Sewerage Authority. The studies were estimated to cost about US$225,000
(US$180,000 in foreign exchange and US$45,o00 equivalent in local
currency). The Government of Ethiopia and the Municipality of Addis Ababa
agreed that they would cover all local costs and any foreign exchange
costs in excess of US$180,000.
2.        Bureau Central D'Etudes pour lee Equipements D'Outre-Mer (BCEOM),
a French consulting firm carried out the engineering studies and Public
Administration Service (PAS), an American consulting firm carried out the
organization and management studies. Contracts between the Bank and
these firms for consultants' services were concluded on August 5, 1969.
Organization and Management Studies
3.        The consultants' assignment was carried out under two phases.
Under the first phase the consultants reviewed the draft charter for
establishing the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority and submitted
a draft report on the organization and management improvements to be
carried out. Under the second phase the consultants assisted in the
implementation of the recommendations made by them. In all, the consultants
provided 20 man-months of assistanceo The consultants commenced their
study early in October 1969 and the first phase was completed on schedule
early in January 1970. Following a review of the draft report by the
Bank and the Municipality, the implementation phase started in mid-May
1970 and was completed in March 1971. On completion of their assignment,
PAS submitted a final report. PAS was paid US$50,000 from the technical
assistance grant.
Engineering Studies
4.        These studies consisted of:
(i) review of existing information and investigations of the
present water supply facilities in Addis Ababa;
(ii) water demand analysis;



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
(iii) preparation of a staged program for water and sewerage
system extensions; and
(iv)  preliminary engineering including cost estimates for the
water distribution and first stage sewerage projects and
preparation of reports on these aspects in accordance with
the detailed temns of reference included in the contract.
5.        BCECiK commenced the engineering studies in mid-October 1969.
The draft reports submitted by BCEOM periodically were reviewed by the
Bank and the Municipality. The consultants completed their assignment
under the contract in November 1970 when the final feasibility and
preliminary engineering reports were submitted.
6.        The contract provided for payments to BCEOM an amount not
exceeding US$119,000 and the entire amount has been utilized.
March 1. 1972



ETH lOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF ADDIS ABABA WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
G E N E R A L   M A NA G E R
CHIEF ENGINEER                                               ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT                                              FINANCE DIRECTOR
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT                                           PERSONNEL AND STAFF                                                  FINANCE DEPARTMENr
TRAINING
BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT
INCLUDING INTERNAL
ADIT,NG
ENGINEERING DIVISIONS    LAEORATSORIVIESION       SYSTEMS DII-N           GARAGE AND SHOPS          ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
EONGINERUCIONG DIVISINVPLANS DIIIND               SYSTEM  DIVISION             DIVISION
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                              DIVISIONOO
LEGAL SERVICE5
PLANNING AND            WATER TREATMENT         WATER DISTRIBUTION       AUTOMOTIVE SHOP                                                                                                                          BILING
PROGRAMM ING            PLAN TS                 SYSTEMS                                                                                                        PURCHASING                CUSTOMER
BUILDING MAINTENANCE                                                                 ANDCSORESTERVICDAND
SURVEY AND DETIGNS      LABORATORIES            SEWAGE COLLECTION                                                                        DIVISIONSEVICS 
SYSTEMSPUMP AND METER SHOP                                                        DIIINCLETN
CONSTRUCTION            RESERVOIRS AND PUMPS    FOC0CON                                                                                                           IIIO                    IIINDVSO
CON STERUCTIO0N
SEWAGE TREATMENT
PEANT 
NOTE SUPPORTING STAFF POSITIONS NOT SHOWN.
COMMENTS ON NEXT PAGE.                                                                                                                                                   IERD-5524 (R






ANNX 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAOE PROJECT
Organization of the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
1.        Until recently the responsibility for Addis Ababa's water supply
was vested in the Water Supply Administration of the Addis Ababa Municipality
which operated under the control of a General Manager and retained all
revenues collected for water supply purposes. Its expenditure budget was,
however, subject to approval by the City Council. The reorganization of
the Water Supply Administration into a statutory Authority was studied
by management consultants and the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
(AWSA) was created in February 1971 by executive order 68 of 1971.
2.        AWSA has taken over the assets and functions of tne Administration
and the sewage collection functions carried out by the city. AWSA is set
up as a commercial-type corporation with share capital and a Board of
Directors with the Municipality as the sole shareholder. The Board has
nine members consisting of the Lord Mayor of Addis Ababa, the Ministers
of Interior, Public Health, Finance, Public Works or their representatives,
one Councillor elected by the Addis Ababa City Council for a term of one
year, a member appointed by the Eneror, the Chief City Engineer of
Addis Ababa and the General Manager of AWSA. The Lord Mayor is the
chairman of the Board.
3.        The General Manager, appointed by the Emperor, is responsible
for day-to-day control of AWSA and he is supported by a Chief Engineer
and Director of Finance, together with four administrative officers who
are responsible for personnel, budget, legal services and general
administrative services. The Chief Engineer is in position and the
Director of Finance has been appointed. The administrative services
sections have been organized and the necessary staff appointed. The
administration group functions as four units and is responsible for the
following principal functions: Personal Officer - for all matters
relating to personnel, including staff training; Budget Officer - for budget,
management information and internal auditing; Legal Services Officer - for
legal services including land acquisition; and Administrative Services
Officer - for office, custodial and guard services.
4.        The Engineering Departnent has the following four main divisions:
Engineering Division, Plants Division, Systems Division and Garage and
Shops Division. The Engineering Division will have three sections for
planning and progranming, survey and design, and construction.  A qualified
Ethiopian engineer who has had experience with the Wqter Supply Adminis-
tration for several years and who is familiar with the proposed project
has been appointed as the Chief of the Engineering Division. Most of the
supporting staff for the Division has not yet been recruited and the sections
under this Division have not therefore been established.






ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3 pages
5.        An Engineer has been appointed as the Acting Chief of the Plants
Division. This Divi#ion has responsibility for the sections dealing with
water plants, laboratories, reservoirs and pumps. The sections are fully
staffed except for the position of an engineer to head the water plants
section. A sewage plants section will be organized before the project
comes into operation and placed under this division.
6.        The Systems Division is under the charge of an experienced and
qualitied Ethiopian engineer. The force accounts construction section
and water systems section under this division have been organized and
provided with the necessary staff. The sewage collection functions taken
over from the Municipality are being carried out by this division and the
necessary staff has been transferred frum the Municipality. This section
will be reorganized when the sewerage part of the project is completed.
7.        The Garage and Shops Division and the sections under it dealing
with automotive shop, building maintenance and puts and meter shop have
all been established and there are no major staffing problems.
8.        The Finance Department has four divisions for accounting, billing
and collection, customer services and purchasing and stores. These
divisions have been organized and the existing staff has been allocated
to these divisions. Revisions to the accounting system proposed by the
management consultants are already being introduced. Billing and collection
procedures will remain substantially unaltered. The present system uses
hand-delivery and collection of bills by collectors who are paid on a
commission basis. In Addis Ababa, postal delivery of bills is not possible
and under the present system bad debts are small.
March 1, 1972






ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4 pages
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Facilities
General
1.        Addis Ababa City derives its public water supply from two major
impounding reservoirs at Gafarsa and Lagadadi and a few minor springs and
wells connected to the distributiDn network. Most of the industries and
large consumers of water in the city have their own individual wells.
Gafarsa Works
2.        The Gafarsa works are situated about 18 kilometers west of the
city. These consist of a main dam, a secondary dam and a water treatment
plant. The main dam designated as Gafarsa I was built in 1938 as a
gravity dam about 9 meters high on the Gafarsa stream which is a
tributary of the Little Akaki River. The dam was strengthened to insure
stability and heightened by 6 meters in 1954. The crest of the dam is
used as the spillway. It has a catclnent area of about 68 sq km and the
storage capacity of the reservoir is 6.4 million cubic meters. The
main purpose of the reservoir is to store water for use during the dry
season but the reservoir is heavily silted up and the storage capacity
has been greatly reduced. In 1964 consultants studied the reservoir
and recommended the construction of another dam designated as Gafarsa II
downstream of the existing dam to impound the overflow from Gafarsa I
during the rainy season and the run-off from the additional catchment
area between the two dams. This proposal was not accepted by the
Addis Ababa Municipality. However, in 1966 a new earthen dam 18 meters
high was built on the Gafarsa stream, upstream of the main dam to provide
additional storage. The new dam is called Gafarsa III and the reservoir
formed has a capacity of about 1.5 million cubic meters. The release
of water from Gafarsa III is controlled through two 800 mm diameter
pipes which discharge water frcm the reservoir into the stream bed. The
two Gafarsa sources are able to provide about 29,500 m3- per day on the
average.
Gafarsa Water Treatment Plant
3.        This was built in two stages in 1955 and 1960 and it consists of
an intake, a prechlorination chamber, 2 clarifiers, 12 rapid sand filters
and a filtered water reservoir. The raw water is chlorinated and dosed
with alum and lime before it enters the two circular clarifiers of 15 meter
diameter each. The clarified water is passed through the sand filters,
each of which has a surface area of 24 sq meters.  The filters are back-
washed with compressed air and water. The filter rate is low at about
80 gallons/sq ft/hour. The treatment plant is designed to produce



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4 pages
30,000 m3/day but actually only about 25,000 m3/day is produced on the
average because of operational problems. There is very little control
over chemical dosing and the operation of the filters and clarifiers
leave much to be desired. A systematic checking of the chemical dosing
arrangements, clarifiers, filters and control equipment is needed to
identify the parts requiring repair and replacement and to improve the
overall efficiency and performance of the treatment plant. Simultaneously,
the operating staff should be trained to carry out routine laboratory
tests to determine the doses of chemicals to be used and to ensure the
quality of water produced. The present unsatisfactory operation and
maintenance of the treatment plant is mainly due to lack of trained
operating staff and inadequate supervision and guidance from the
engineering department. These deficiencies will be removed when additional
staff, as recommended by the management consultants, is appointed and
the services of an advisor obtained and in-service training of the staff
provided.
4.        The filtered water is collected in an underground reservoir
where it is chlorinated and transmitted by gravity to the city through
two 400 mm diameter steel pipes.
Lagadadi Works
5.        The Lagadadi works (Annex 1) are located about 30 km to the north
on the eastern side of the city. These consist of a concrete dam and a
secondary earthen dam creating a storage reservoir with a usefal capacity
of about 35 million cubic meters and the water treatment plant with a designed
capacity of 50,000 m-3 per day. The construction of the dam was completed
during 1970 and the treatment plant was put into operation in November
1970. The contractor has still to carry out a number of minor works
connected with the project.
6.        The treatment plant has been designed by Degremont, a French
water treatment plant equipment manufacturing company and it provides
for chemical coagulation and settling of raw water before filtration.
Provision has been made for prechlorination and post-chlorination of
the water. Presently the filters are being used only for a few hours
per day as the distribution system is not available to fully utilize
the production from this plant. A 900 mm dia-eter steel pipe (about 18 km
long) conveys the treated water to a 20,000 m) capacity ground level
reservoir located on the eastern boundary of Addis Ababa City. From
this terminal reservoir, a 900 mm diameter steel pipe has been laid to
connect with the existing distribution system.
Other Public Sources of Water
7.        A few springs and wells located in different parts of the city
have been connected to the distribution system and these sources supply
about 800 m3/day. Water from these sources is chlorinated and directly
pumped into the network. Water from some of theae sources is of doubtful
quality and the chlorination carried out is not adequate. In addition



ANNE 4
Page 3 of 4 pages
to these springs and wells a small water treatment plant located at the
north of the town is also in use. This plant, called the Entoto
treatment plant, built between 1936 and 1941 yields about 1,oo0 m3/day
and is used to serve the high level areas in the north. The quality of
the raw water and the layout of the treatment plant present many opera-
tional problems and the consultants have recommended that this plant
should not be used in the future. As arrangements are made to fully
utilize the supply from the Lagadadi source the use of these minor
sources of supply which are uneconomical will be discontinued.
Private Wells
8.        There are a number of private wells in use in the city.  The
depth of these wells vary from about 20 meVers to 400 meters with yields
in some of the deeper wells of about 500 m'/day. A survey made by
consultants indicated that some 12,000 people take water from these wells
in addition to their use by industries, hotels, etc. The survey also
indicated that the quality of the water in a number of these wells was
unsatisfactory.
Distribution System
9.        The distribution system has been added on an ad hoc basis with-
out proper planning. The present network is estimated to consist of some
790 km of pipes of which some 552 km are small pipes of less than 100 mm
diameter. Mostly galvanized iron pipes have been used in the distribution
system and in a number of instances leakages from these mains are quite
considerable. It is estimated that on the whole 25% of the supply is
lost through leakages in the distribution system.
Reservoirs
10.       The m3ain reservoir built in 1956 consists of two masonry tanks,
each of 5,000 m capacity. Other reservoirs are mostly of 11,000 m3
capacity each. The location and capacity of each reservoir was apparently
determined to solve particular water shortage problems in different
areas. There are 13 reservoirs including the main reservoir. Water from
some of these reservoirs is pumped in order to increase the pressures
in the distribution system and serve local high level areas. The distri-
bution system developed in this manner is not functioning satisfactorily
at present. Pressures are low in many parts of the city and the supply
is intermittent in several areas. The supply is distributed through some
43,000 private house connections and 255 public fountains, all of which
are metered.
Sewerage, Drainage and Liquid Wastes Collection and Disposal
11.       Records of sewerage and drainage works done in the past have not been
kept. During the period 1937-39 the Italians built a combined sewerage system
to drain the liquid wastes and storm water from the market area, barracks



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4 pages
and buildings. The collected wastes were discharged into the local
streams through a number of outlets without any treatment. The drainage
system fell into disuse subsequently, resulting in silting of the pipes
and damage to the system. On the basis of enquiry and some field
explorations the consultants have estimated that the total length
of these drains would be 16 to 20 ki made up of concrete pipes of 0.60 m
diameter and larger rectangular and horse-shoe shaped masonry sewers.
As the rehabilitation of this system for carrying sanitary sewage would
be prohibitively costly, consultants have recommended a separate sanitary
sewerage system and the use of these old drains wherever feasible for
conveying storm water.
12.       Storm drains have been provided in recent years during the
construction of new roads within the city boundary. These drains are made
of 0.2 m to 1.0 m diameter concrete pipes and have been provided usually
on both sides of main streets. Unless the maintenance of these storm
drains improves they are also likely to be completely silted up soon.
13.       Until recently the sanitation section of the Addis Ababa
Municipality operated a vacuum truck service for the removal of septic
tank and cesspool effluents. AWSA has now taken over this service and
it collects a fee of Eth$25 for each trip made by a truck. The collected
wastes are dumped in a sedimentation tank of about 800 m3 capacity
recently constructed on the southwestern outskirts of the city. The
wastes are kept in the tank for a couple of days before being allowed to
flow into the Akaki River. The present treatment is unsatisfactory
and results in river pollution. This source of pollution will be
eliminated when the project comes into operation.
March 1, 1972



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4 pages
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Detailed Description of the Project
A. Water Supply
1.        The project has been selected on the basis of the consultants'
detailed hydraulic analysis of the existing water supply distribution
network and a detailed analysis of the water demand. Alternative methods
of meeting the demand were examined and the proposed improvements and
extensions of the distribution network were selected as the least cost
solution.
2.        To begin with, the consultants made a field survey and inves-
tigation of the existing distribution network, production and transmission
facilities, and prepared a basic distribution plan. An initial hydraulic
analysis of the network was then made in a computer to determine the
overall performance of the distribution system and the pressures, velocities
and flows in different sections and the roughness of the pipes. From
this analysis the parts of the system that needed strengthening were
determined.
3.        In order to determine the best way of utilizing the supplies
from the two main sources -- Gafarsa and Lagadadi works which are located
on opposite sides of the city and at a difference in level of 100 meters --
the supply area was divided into three sections as follows:
(i)  The upper section with ground levels ranging from 2,500
to 2,700 meters which is presently being supplied from
the Gafarsa source by pumping;
(ii) The intermediate section with ground levels ranging
from 2,,400 meters to 2,500 meters which is being
supplied by gravity from the Gafarsa source; and
(iii)  The southern section with ground levels ranging from
2,200 meters to 2,400 meters which can be supplied by
gravity from the Lagadadi source.
4.        On the basis of a study of the population and housing trends in
each zone of the city the consultants estimated the water requirements for
each of the above sections and compared them with the production facilities
available. The study indicated that the requirements of the upper section
and intermediate section would definitely exceed the supply available from
the Gafarsa source by 1975, and the supply to these sections would have
to be supplemented from the Lagadadi source which is mainly intended to
supply to the southern section. It is estimated that both the sources
will be fully utilized by 1981.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4 pages
Primary Network
5.        The primary network has been designed for a minimum water
pressure of 20 meters and a maximum pressure of 80 meters and for a
velocity of flow of not more than 2 meters per second. The diameters
of the new pipes have been selected to obtain the lowest possible cost
by comparing alternative solutions. Boosting lines have been incorporated
in the system where a study of the overall construction and operating
costs indicated them to be the most economical solution. Approximately
100 km of 100 mm to 600 mm diameter pipes (about 60% in the range of
150 mm to 250 mm) would be added to the primary network. These pipes
would be laid about 0.80 meters below ground level and would follow
generally the existing road network. Pressure reducing valves would
be used wherever pressures exceed 80 meters. Tenders will be invited
for alternative pipe materials and the selection of pipe material
made on the basis of suitability and cost.
Service Reservoirs
6.        It is prcposed to add three ground level reservoirs to the
existing ones in the distribution system in order to limit water pressure
in the network and reduce the cost of the distribution system. These
reservoirs will be designated as follows and have the capacities indicated
against each:
(i) Saint Paul (upper section - west) capacity: 1 ,000 m3
(ii) Tefere Makonnen (upper section - east) capacity: 2,500 m3
(iii) Jan Hoy Meda (intermediate section - east) capacity: 2,500 m3
For the purposes of preliminary cost estimates, it has been assumed that
these reservoirs will be circular reinforced concrete structures. At the
time of detailed engineering, stone masonry construction will be considered
as an alternative and selected if found economical. Appropriate inlet
and outlet control valves, recording gauges, etc. will be provided for
each reservoir.
Pumping Plants
7.        The project includes the provision of a total of 24 pumping units
including standby equipment at various locations to pump water to isolated
high level areas, transfer water from a low level to high level zone, or
t) boost pressures in existing mains.
Secondary Network
8.        The length of the secondary pipelines needed has been estimated
by the consultants on the basis of the surface area, density and type of
housing and water requirements of each zone. The project includes provision



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4 pages
for the supply and laying of 360 km of 50 mm to 100 mm diameter pipes and
accessories. The location and diameter of pipeline to be laid in each
zone will be determined during detailed engineering. The secondary mains
will be laid at an average depth of 0.49 meters below ground level and
along roads as far as possible.
Water Meters
9.        The project also includes the purchase of bulk and service water
meters. Some 20,000 meters will be purchased to replace existing defective
meters and for metering anticipated new service connections during the
project construction period.
B. Sewerage and Sewage Disposal
10.       The area to be sewered was selected by consultants on the basis
of technical, economic and financial evaluations of sewering the various
parts of the city. The selected area is in the southern part of the city
stretching from the new Municipality building to the southern industrial
area along the Debre Zeit Road. The first phase of the project would
serve 110,000 people and cover the entire business center, the new resi-
dential areas, and the industrial area along the Debre Zeit Road and would
result in significant reduction in stream pollution.
Sewerage System
11. *     A densely populated area of about 1,100 hectares will be covered
by the project.  The primary network will consist of about 36 km of inter-
ceptors and main sewers ranging in size from 0.20 m to about 0.70 m diameter.
The main sewers will generally follow the natural valleys. Construction of
these sewers in the built-up areas of the town will require demolition of
some of the existing structures. In such areas larger sewers than required
under the present project will be laid where sufficient space for a second
pipeline may not be available. These details will be detenmined during
detailed engineering. The secondary network will consist of some 78 km
of 0.20 m diameter sewers. The location of these sewers will be decided
during detailed engineering when the possibility of using 0.15 m diameter
pipes in suitable areas will be considered. The project also includes
funds for the procurement of about 36 km of 100 mm diameter sewer pipes
for house connections.
12.       The sewers will be laid at least 1.5 meters below ground level.
Alternative pipe materials such as asbestos cement and reinforced concrete
will be permitted during tendering and the minimum cost material will be
selected. The collected sewage will flow by gravity to a treatment plant
located just outside the city limits.
Collection of Liquid Wastes from Unsewered Areas
13.       The night soil and septic tank effluents from the unsewered
areas will be collected by specially equipped trucks and taken to the



ANEX
Page 4of 4 pages
sewage treatment plant for disposal. The project includes provision for
the purchase of six such trucks and ancillary equipment.
Sewage Treatment and Disposal
14.       About 20 hectares of land will be acquired for the treatment
plant site on the left bank of the Akaki River downstream of the industrial
zone. The raw sewage will be passed through a comminuter to a sedimen-
tation tank for preliminary settling. The settled sewage will be treated
in oxidation canals before discharging into the stream. The sludge from
the settling tanks will be digested in separate sludge lagoons and the
digested sludge used as an agricultural filler and fertilizer. The
night soil and septic tank effluent collected from the unsewered areas of
the city will also be brought to the treatment plant and treated together
with the raw sewage. The oxidation canals will be built on a pilot scale
initially. Based on a study of the plant operation further design and
construction will be done as needed.
March 1, 1972



LTITIOPIA
Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Cost Estimate of Project
_-_---______-- Local Costs ---------------------------                --------------- Foreign Exchange ---------------
S ib-                                                        Sub-
Year ending July 7                                       1972    1973      1974      1975     1976      1977    T_tal          1973    1974      1975      1976      1977     Total           TOTAL
1. WATER SUPPLY
Pipes and Fittings                                    _          _        _         _        _         _                     -       6,500       715      -         _        7,215          7,215
Electrical-Mechanical Equipment                       _          _        _         _        _         _         _           -         370        45      -         _          415            415
Water Meters                                          -          -        -         -        -         -         -           -         300       300       90       -          690            690
Pipelaying Works and Construction
of Pumping Stations and Reservoirs_                 _         -       1,330       660      200       170    2,360          -         550      280        80        50       960          3,320
Technical Contingencies                               _         -         270       130       40        30      470          -         770       130       30       -         930          1,400
Provision for Price Increases                         -          -         80        40       10        10       140         -         450        90       10       -          550            690
Land                                                  -          300      -         -        -         -         300         -         -         -        -         -         -               300
Engineering Consultant Services                       20          70       70        70        50      -         280        200        220       220      200       -          840         1,120
Sub-Total (i)                                   20        370    1,750       900       300      210    3,550          200     9,160    1,780        410        50    11,600         15,150
2. SEWERAGE
Sewer Pipes and Accessories                           -         -         -         -        -         -        -            -         -      1,210    2,000    1,000       4,210          4,210
Sewage Treatment Plant Equipment
and Trucks                                                    -         -         -             -         -                -         325      600        90       -       1,015          1,015
Laying of Trurnk Sewers, pyanch
Sewers and Connections-'                            -         -         -        440       750       670    1,860          -         -        360       600       300     1,260          3,120
Construction of Treatment Works                       -          -        -         220      220        45      485          -         -        220       220        45       485             970
Technical Contingencies                                    -              -         130      190       150      470          -          30       240      290       140       700          1,170
Provision for Price Increases                         -          -        -          80       120       85       285         -          35       290      380       175        880          1,165
Land and Compensation                                 -        1,000      700       -        -         -      1,700          -         -         -        -         -          -            1,700
Engineering Consultant Services                       -           50       50        50        50      -         200         -         150       150      150       150        600            800
Sub-Total (ii)                                  -       1,050       750      920    1,330        950    5,000          -         54o    3,070    3,730    1,810       9,150         14,150
3.  MANACEMENT CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
AND TRAINING                                             -           50        70       30       -        -         150         180       270       100       -        -          550            700
TOTAL                                           20      1,470    2,570    1,850    1,630    1,160    8,700            380      9,970    4,950    4,140    1,860    21,300           30,000
1/  ,ocal  ios,  Include secondary distributi on works costing about Ft$1.4 million which will be carried our by AWSA aoains' whic' - here will he no disbursement from the loan.
9!  I.ocai coszs include sewerore houise service connections estimated to cost about Nt$0.6  million which wtill be done by AWSA and soginec whin    are will he no disbursement
from -- lan..
0ebnrary 10    971






ETHIOPIA: ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
PROJECT COMPONENTS                        1972     1973       1974        1975       1976
MAY 1, 1972    I                                   DECEMBER 31 t
SUPPLY OF WATER PIPES AND ACCESSORIES                                IlIIIIl:
SUPPLY OF WATER PUMPS, METERS AND TRUCKS                             I IHEEhI
SUPPLY OF SEWER PIPES AND ACCESSORIES                                  Ilil U-1LILLULfll13  yV *   vt
SUPPLY OF SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT EQUIPMENT
CONSTRUCTION - PRIMARY NETWORK - WATER                    ....I. .IUU..      '               >..  1 m-.
CONSTRUCTION - SECONDARY NETWORK - WATER                 DESIGN, PROCUREMENT & CONSTRUCTION DURING ENTIRE PROJECT PERIOD
CONSTRUCTION - WATER PUMPING STATIONS AND RESERVOIRS                 lUlhUhlUlhIl   >i ? t;   >
CONSTRUCTION - SEWERAGE SYSTEM                                                                     I - .W ...
CONSTRUCTION - SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT                    E          -----IIIIIiI -IIII-----II  - 77.7:
LAND ACQUISITION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY                         COMPLETION OF ACTION'
DESIGN & PREPARATORY WORK
2
U    TENDER PERIOD, EVALUATION OF TENDERS & CONTRACT AWARD                                                   m
SUPPLY & ERECTION OR CONSTRUCTION
Wor d( Bank 3537






ANNEX 8
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of ftLsbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                           Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                 at end of Quarter
(US$ 000's)
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                      9
December 31, 1972                                     120
March 31, 1973                                        160
June 30, 1973                                         250
1973L74
September 30, 1973                                  1,380
December 31, 1973                                   2,520
March 31, 1974                                      3,650
June 30, 1974                                       4,780
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                  5,433
December 31, 1974                                   6,080
March 31, 1975                                      6,740
June 30, 1975                                       7,390
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                  8,000
December 31, 1975                                   8,600
March 31, 1976                                      9,220
June 30, 1976                                       9,810
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                 10,260
December 31, 1976                                  10,800
Assumptions:  (1)  That engineering consultants commence work not
later than May 1, 1972.
(2)  That the loan becomes effective before
September 1, 197 2.
March 2, 1972






ETHIOPIA: ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
POPULATION AND WATER CONSUMPTION STATISTICS AND PROJECTIONS
28                                                                                                                                              11   1         1400
24                                                                                                                                                             1200
20                                                                                               _ _ _ _ _ _
1LJJ                                 -        C  U  L--   R                                                                J  CT  D--1
16 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~oG                                                               800k653
zo
o ~~~~~ ~TOTAL POPULATION                                                                                        00C
UJ U                  ~~~~~~(Right Scale)
zJ      12                                                                                                                                                             600        Z
_j          D                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
z             fn                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
8                                                                          Ido400
z
w
C,                         RN ~~~~~ANNUAL WATER CO)NSUMPTION
(Left Scale)
4                                                                                                                                            __ _ _ _ _ _ _   200
0                       I                                                                                                                                    0z
1961   1962   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981                       Z
m
4                        ~~~~~~ACTUAL  -                          04PROJECTED                                                                                C
World Bank-6536






ANNEX 1 0
Page   of 6 pages
ETHIOPIA
ADIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Sewerage ProJect
Introduction
1.        An area of about 218 square kilometers is considered to be within
the jurisdiction of Addis Ababa Municipality and of this, about 52 square
kilometers is densely populated. The city has developed naturally with
little or no town planning or land use regulations.  As a result, there is
a heterogeneity of land use pattern. Large parts of the area within the
city limits are still rural in character. With the exception of the main
streets, road surfacing is absent and traditional houses built with wood
and mud predominate. The 1967 census classified only 40% of the housing
units in the city as permanent. These features of urban development in
the city are of great significance in the development of water supply and
sewerage networks. Since sewerage requirements are essentially linked
with housing development and water consumption, which is very low for the
majority of the population, the entire city could not be sewered at this
stage, and a feasible project to meet the most imperative needs had to
be developed. The consultants made a socio-econdmic study of the area
and developed projections for annual increases in population, housing
development and distribution, potential water consumption, and sewerage
connections. The projections have been made for each district and zone
of the city (the territorial sub-division of the city into 10 districts
and 52 zones corresponds to a very fine breakdown of the urban area
and has been utilized by the consultants).
Selection of Project Area
2.        A preliminary selection of the areas to be sewered was made by
the consultants using the cost of night soil collection and septic tank
emptying as the determining factor, on the assumption that the greater
the volume of night soil and septic tank fluid collected from the district,
the greater the need for sewerage. The need for sewerage was also consi-
dered from the point of view of the potential number of septic tanks that
would otherwise have to be built in the future. A number of the existing
septic tanks are not functioning properly and are discharging effluents
into the streams and constitute an important source of pollution. This
pollution would be greatly reduced if the septic tanks were properly
operated and maintained. Therefore, the normal operating and maintenance
cost of existing and potential septic tanks which would have to be built
in the absence of a central sewerage scheme, was also taken into consi-
deration. On this basis, 5 out of 10 districts of the city were selected.
But even the 5 districts covered a very large part of the city and on the
basis of total investment it was considered improbable that they could be



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 6 pages
ccmpletely severed under the first phase of the project; therefore, the
most feasible out of the 36 zones in the 5 districts had to be selected
for further consideration.
3.        In making the second selection, prime consideration was given to
the present and potential water consumption in each zone. Analysis of
the 1969 consumption pattern indicated that water consumption in the 36
zones varied fro 570 to 4,800 m3 per hectare, or an average consimption
of 1.6 to 13.2 m per day per hectare. As a minimum flow is required
to ensure reasonable hydraulic working of the sewers, only the zones
having an average flow of over 4 m'/day/hectare were considered.  This
resulted in a selection of 26 zones which are adjacent to one another
in two drainage basins.
4.        A further refinement to select the area from the 26 zones to
be served under the first phase of the project was then carried out on the
basis of a cost:benefit analysis for each zone. For this calculation, the
cost of the secondary network in each zone which is directly related to
the density of housing and the street layouts, was taken into consideration
and compared with the benefits.
Project Benefits Evaluation
5.        The benefits were classified under two categories:
(a) Tangible Cost Savings. These correspond to the expenses
that the individual and the community have to incur in order to dispose
of their liquid wastes when a central sewerage system does not exist.
Accordingly, the cost of installation, operation and maintenance of
individual sewage disposal systems, septic tanks and cesspits which are
saved when a sewerage system is provided were considered as tangible cost
savings.  The sun of these savings is important when one considers the
length of life of the sewerage network. These savings were evaluated in
some detail taking into consideration the various types of housing units
and also recognizing that transfers from the existing septic tank to sewer
system will be progressive. Savings from operating and maintenance costs
were estimated on the basis of the charge made by the Municipality
(Eth$25 for one operation) for emptying septic tanks and cesspits. The
above procedure for determining tangible cost savings understates the
benefits since septic tanks and cesspits are often ineffective as a
means of sewage disposal for large water consumers, and installations
for each of these require different kinds of sewage treatment involving
considerable investments. Operating and maintenance costs for these
facilities are also higher than for septic tanks. Therefore in the
evaluation of tangible cost savings the large consumers were not included
but these benefits were added on a global basis when the final comparisons
were made.



ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 6 pages
(b) Intangible Benefits. The public health benefits arising
out of a sewer project, the comfort and convenience to the individual and
the community, the suppression of nuisance brought about by multiplication
of individual waste water disposal units especially due to the impervious
soil in Addis Ababa, the increase of land value in areas with sewerage,
the benefits due to the increase in numbers of visitors and develop-
menF of tourism, are all included under this category.  Because o0  the
interaction between these factors and the difficulty in assigning monetary
values to each and everyone of them, the consultants grouped these
benefits under a single term and labelled them "social value". The
consultants assumed that this "social value" may be estimated as
being proportional to water consumption and therefore considered as a
value added to that of the water supplied to the customers of the sewerage
system. In other words, the "social value" represents the price that
the individual and community should pay for the sanitary benefits of the
sewerage system, As this added value per cubic meter of water consumed
cannot be accurately ascertained the consultants initially used an
arbitrary figure of Eth$0.10/m3 (20% of basic water rate) for comparison.
Cost:Benefit Evaluation
6.        A comparison between the 26 zones in question was then under-
taken with the help of a computer, calculating the present worth of the
benefits and costs for each zone for the 1970-85 period using discount
rates of 8, 10 and 15 percent. The computer program gave a present worth
balance for each zone. As a result of the analysis, 3 distinct areas
where a sewerage project could be contemlated emerged. These potential
projects were called Alternatives 1, 2 and 3. Alternative 1 would serve
part of the present business center of the city comprising 3 zones. The
benefit:cost ratio was above 1 for the 3 discount rates used not consi-
dering the "s.ocial value".  Alternative 2 covered 6 zones including those
under Alternative 1.  With a "social value" rate of Eth$0.10/m3, the
benefit:cost ratio was over 1 for the discount rates used. Alternative 3
coveTred 10 zones including those under the other alternatives and showed
a benefit:cost ratio of more than 1 only when a "social value" rate of
Eth$0.2,0/m3 was used. For the other zones, the benefit:cost ratio was
less than 1 even with a discount rate of 8% and a "social value" rate of
Eth$0.20/m3.
7.        A more refined analysis was then made to select the project.  The
cost estimates for primary network, secondary network and sewage treatment
inclu(ing operation and maintenance costs were prepared by the consultants
for each of the 3 alternatives. The tangible cost savings and the intan-
gible benefits using different "social value" rates were calculated for
the alternatives. The present worth of the costs and benefits for the
period 1970-2000 using discount rates of 8, 10 and 15 percent showed (see
present worth balance curvea on page 6 of Annex 10) that for a "social
value" rate of Eth$0.10/m3 the costs exceeded benefits for all alternatives.
For a "social value" rate of Eth$0.20/m3 benefits exceeded costs for
discount rates up to 10.5% for Alternative 1, 12.5% for Alternative 2,



ANNEX 1 0
Page 4 of 6 pages
and 13% for Alternative 3 which is the project selected. For a "social
-,mlne" rate ofU Eth$0.30/ma benefits exceed costs for all alternatives
except for Alternative 1 when the discount rate was 15%. It also showed
that Alternative 3 which serves the largest population is most sensitive
to the variation of the "social value" rates adopted.
8,        The cansultants have3then provided a justification for adopting
a "social value" of Eth$0.20/m as appropriate in the calculations in the
following manner.
9.        The consultants' study of public health indicate that the potential
cost to the individual and community of waterborne diseases in Addis Ababa
was about Eth$4.0 million in 1969. If nothing is done to improve the
sanitary conditicns in the city, the consultants assumed, this expenditure
would increase at the same rate as the population. As the project would
serve only about 7% of the total population of Addis Ababa in 1985 a further
assumption was made that 7% of the estimated Eth$4.0 million could be attributed
as savings due to the sewerage project. This presumes that disease and sick-
ness occur uniformly throughout the city which may not be valid. The
consultants have recognized that the expenditures on hospital bills, treatment,
etc. cannot be entirely attributed to the lack of sewerage but on the
otner hand, the benefits from water pollution reductions particularly
from the sewering of the major consumers such as hospital, hotels, industries,
etc. who are the main polluters would accrue to the entire community although
only 7% of the population would be served by the sewerage system. The
consultants have calculated that the savings in the hospital costs, etc.,
would be equivalent to a "social value" rate oI Eth$0.07/m3 of water
consumed by the people connected to the sewerage system.
10.       Secondly, it is estimated that the large consumers such as
hotels and industrial and commercial establishnents in the project area
(Alternative 3) have to spend about Eth$400,000 per year for individual
sewage disposal facilities. These expenditures are also assumed to grow
at the same rate as the population if a central sewer system is not
provided. Since these benefits were not included as part of the tangible
cost savings they pave also been converted into equivalent "social value"
rate of Eth$0.07/m of water consumed by the population connected to the
sewerage system.
11.       Thirdly, the increase in the land value of the areas sewered over
and above the aforementioned tangible benefits has been estimated. The
project would serve approximately 1,100 hectares. The consultants have
calculated that a "social value" rate of Eth$0.06/m3 would represent an
additional rental of approximately Eth$3.00 per month for modern houses
built on sites of approximately 1,000 square meters each, and less than
Eth$1.00 per month for traditional housing units built on sites of
approxLmately 250 square meters. These increases in land value are very
modest.



ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 6 pages
12.       The consultants have therefore concluded that the use of a
"social value" rate of Eth$0.20/m3 in the cost:benefit evaluation should
be acceptable and that it in fact understates the benefits.
Conclusion
13.       The above calculations indicate therefore that for Alternative 3,
the selected project, the cost and benefit streams are equalized at a
discount rate of about 13%. The benefit calculations include quantitifica-
tion in part of the public health and other benefits. The economic rate
of return can therefore be considered to be at least 13%. The calculations
(paragraph 7) also show that on the basis of the equalizing discount rates
Alternative 2 might have been considered equivalent to Alternative 3 but
clearly Alternative 3 is preferable because it is more comprehensive and
serves more people.
March 2, 1972






L+ 13,0 00
ANNEX 10
fl   \                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 6 of  pages
412,000                      ~~                                                &e
+11,000            \%            PRESE:NT  WORTH   AANCEUR
+10,000
+ 8,000                                  V
+ 7.000
01 ies    X                        'tOk    '\*\~~~~~X S
i  7+,000'<                   >u                         '     ,',
+ 6, 000
+ 5,000                                  Z4,,
34.000
+ 2-3,000
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~07
+ 1,000
7                                                              3,000      ,4
-0 $cout rates
- ,000
-Note:  S   =        V l
3,000                                                                 - - - - - - - - - - -
4,000                                        =-(c
No te:  S.V   Social Value               --------
-5. 00 0






ANNEX 1 1
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ARABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Internal Financial Return on Proposed Project
Incremental
Net Cash
Project      Flow from        Net Project
Cost         Operations       Cash Flow
--- Eth$ 0OO's ---------------
WATER SUPPLY
Year ending 7 July  1972                  120          -             _    120
1973                 685          507           -    178
1974              10,550       1,089            -  9,461
1975               2,615       1,744            -    871
1976                 690        2,105              1,415
1977               1,150        2,558              1,408
1978               1,100       3,093               1,993
1979               1,100        3,655              2,555
1980               1,100        4,440              3,340
1981                 200        4,641              4,441
1982                            4,641               4,641
(Assumed constant 1982-2011)
Interal Financial Return is approximately 23% over 40 years.
Calculations are based on assumptions that the present distribution
system is fully utilized and that the proposed project, with related
expenditures by AWSA, will meet demand up to 1981 without further increases
in supply capacity. Incremental net cash flow fram operations is based on
revenues and costs in excess of those applicable to the year ended July 7,
1972. Elements of price escalation have been excluded from costs.
SEWERAGE
Year ending 7 July  1973                1,165          -             -  1,165
1974               1,425          -             -  1,425
1975               3,685          -             -  3,685
1976               4,560          -             -  4,560
1977               2,500          351           -  2,149
1978                 200        1,134                 934
1979                 300        1,320               1,020
1980                 300        1,537               1,237
1981                 300        1,760               1,460
1982                 -          1,983               1,983
(Assumed constant 1982-2021)
Internal Financial Return is approximately 11% over 50 years.
Net cash flow is assumed constant after 1982. Further expenditures
on treatment plant may be necessary at about this time. The primary network
is generally designed for capacity to 1986. Elements of price escalation
have been excluded from costs.
February 17, 197a






ANNEX 12
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Summarized Financial Statements
Addis Ababa Water Supply Administration
Year ended 9 September                                       1969         1970
---- Eth$ 000's --
INCOME STATEMENTS
REVENUES (Cash Basis)
Water Sales                                                3,262        3,457
Meter Rents                                                  101          100
Connection Fees                                              124          155
Miscellaneous                                                             110
Total Revenues                                        3357           822
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                                                     756          812
Wages                                                        175           206
Electricity                                                  120          130
Fuel                                                          42            53
Chemicals                                                    141          100
Maintenance                                                   28            15
Other expense                                                163          136
Collection Comilissions                                       76           79
Depreciation                                                 2         45
Total Operating Expenses                              2,0          2.59
NET OPERATING INCONE                                          1,017         1,232
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Net Operating Income                                       1,017        1,232
Add:  Depreciation                                         i,059         1,059
Total Source of Funds                                 2,076        2,291
APPLICATION OF FUDS
Capital Expenditures                                         432          795
Lagadadi Loan - Principal Repayment                          -           1,250
Interest                                     438          836
Total Application of Funds                              870        2.851
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASli BALANCE1/                        1 .206        ( 590)
BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                                  3,111
Accounts Receivable
Water                                                                 156
Sundry                                                              1138
Inventory                                                               67 2
Total Current Assets                                               4.077
Fixed Assets
Utility Plant                                            15,232
Less:  Depreciation                                       9,123       6,109
Surveyes                                                                351
Work-in-Progress (Lagadadi)                                          27 .460
33,920
TOTAL ASSETS                                                               37 .997
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Customers Deposits                                                      932
Sundry Creditors                                                        29
1 . 241
Long-Tern Liabilities
Lagadadi Debt                                                        23,522
Capital
Capital                                                               9,120
Accumulated Surplus                                                   4.114
13234
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES                                              37.997
NOTE: Assets are undervalued principally due to use of excessive depreciation
rates in prior years, appropriate adjustments have been incorporated
in the opening balance sheet for AWSA as shown in Annex 15.
1/ Accounting system is essentially on cash basis with balance sheet accruals
adjusted through surplus.
February 17, 1972






ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER 'LPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMAT'S INCOI.E STATEMENTS 1971-1981
Year ending July 7,        1971      1972     1973      1974     1975      1976      ------- 1977 _________1978---------   ---------1979---------   --------1980_-----__   -------1981--------
Water   Water    Water    Wate        Wate     Watr       Water  Sewerage  Total   Water  Sewerage  Tot.al   Water  Sewerage  Total   Water  Sewerage  Total   Water  Sewerage  Total
WATER SUPPLY
Estimated Annual Production (m3 000)             12,700   13,600   15,600   18,000   20,400   22,100    22,300                       24,200                     26,40o                     29,200                     29,200
Non-revenue Water  (m3 000)                       4,400    4,1oo    4,700    5,500    6,ioo    6,6oo        5,6oo                     6,ooo                      6,600                      7,300                     6,700
Water Saleo  (at 000)                            8,300    9,500   10,900   12,500   14,300   1,,500    16,700                        18,200                     19,800                     21,900                    22,500
Percent of Water Sold to Water Produced              65%      70<       70%      70t       70%      70.        70%                        75%                       75<                        752,                       77%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (Eth$ 000's) ----------------------------_________________________________________________
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Billings                                    3,435    4,697    5,286    6,062    6,935    7,517         8,099      750   8,849   8,827    1,612  10,439   9,603    1,837  11,440  10,622    2,085  12,707  10,913    2,345  13,258
Less:  Bad Debts                               172      230      264       303       347      376        405       37      442     442        8o     522      48o       96      576     531       104      635     546       117      663
3,263    T,377    5,022    5,759    6,58    7,14          7694       713   8 7    8,3E5    1,532   9,917   9,123    1,741  10,864   10,091    1,981  12,972  10,367    2,228  12,595
Meter Rents                                     94      128       148      170       194      214        235        -      235     26o         -     260      282         -     282      312        -      312     342         -      342
Nes Service Connection Fees                   474       150      150       150      150       150        125        -      125     125         -     125      125        -      125     125         -      125     125         -      125
Miscellaneous                                  105      100       100      100       100      100        100        -      100     100         -     100      100        -      100     100         -      100     100         -      100
3,936    T4755    5400   6,179            7,032    7,605  2,154      713 8,     7   8,270    1,532  10,402   9,63) 1 ,y71  11,371  1028    1 1   2,609  10,934    2,228 13,162
Less: Collection Coomissions                   72        96      110       126      145       157        169       17      186     184        36     220     201        41      242     222        46      268     239        48      287
Total Revenues                    3,864    4,659    5,310    6,053    6,887    7,448        7,985      696   8681   8 686    1496    ,2   9,429    1,700  11,129   0406    1,935  12341  10695    2,180  12,875
Operating Costs
Wages, Salaries and Allowances                862    1,086    1,140    1,197    1,257    1,320         1,386      289   1,675   1,455        304   1,759   1,533       318   1,851   1,610        337   1,942   i,690        350   2,o4o
Chemicals                                     352       350      402       462      531       611       620         -     620      676         -     676     736         -      736     803         -     803      803         -     803
Electricity and Fael                          154       212      243       279       320      368        370       22      392     4o4        22     426      44o       24      464     480        26      506     48o        28      508
Materials                                       42       52       54        57        6o       63         66        -       66      69         -      69       72        -       72       76        -       76      80         -       80
Office and General Expenses                    33        41       45        49       54        59         62       14       76      65        14      79       68       14       82       71       14       85      74        14       88
Miscellaneous                                   19       24        25       26        27       28         29       20       49      30        22      52       31       24       55       32       26       58      33        28       61
Total Operating Costs             1,462    1,765    1,909    2,070    2,249    2,449        2,533      345   2,878   2,699        362   3,061   2,880        380   3,260   3,072       398   3,470   3,160        420   3,580
Incrm  before Depreciation and Interest          2,402    2,894    3,401    3,983    4,638    4,999         5,452      351   5,803   5,987    1,134   7,121   6,549    1,320   7,869   7,334    1,537   8,871   7,535    1,760   9,295
Depreciation                                        358    1,046    1,065    1,106    1,247    1,455        1,491      282   1,773   1,476        340   1,816   1,506        348   1,854   1,543       356   1,899   1,615        364   1,979
Insame before Interest                           2,o44    1,848    2,336    2,877    3,391    3,544         3,961       69   4,030   4,511        794   5,305   5,043        972   6,015   5,791    i,181   6,972   5,920    1,396   7,316
Interest                                              -      343      304       264      224       184                    -   2,s056      -         -   2,796                                     -2.         2,634       -         -   2,556
Net Income                        %2o44H/  1.505    2,032    2,613    3,167    3,360                          1,974                      2,509                     3,389                      4,338                      4,760
Rate of Return on Net Plant (%)
(including Lagadadi)                                                5 -  s.2%  6.58    7.5%      6.9%.                       6.7<t                      7.1g                       8.1%                       9.3%                      9.7%
Earned Surplos
Balance Beginning of Year                        -      9o6    2,4hi     4,443    7,056   10,223                        13,583                    15,553                     tP,Go66                    21,455                    25,793
Net Income for Year                           906    1,505    2,032    2,613    3,167    3,36o                           1,974                     7,509                      3,389                      4,338                      4,760
Ralance, End of Year as Balasse Sheet         906    2,411    4,443    7,056   10,223   13,583                          15,557                    18,066                     21,455                     25,793                     30,553
NOT?:  Average water rae per 03 = E+h$0.485
1/ i9h71 figures are rcr a 10 -tsolE period.
2/ Inludes cost of makinG service connect.ion.
3/ E'h$1,138,000 I .r.ferred to Capisli is pre-iricorporalinn enroins .
F.bruar-. it,, i972'






F'.lHIOPIA
ADDI.. ABABA WATER SU.lPPLY AiD SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF fSJNDS 1971-1981
(Eth$ 000's)
Year ending July 7,    1971k/    1972          1973        1974       1975        1976        1977       1978        1979        1960         1981
------------------------Water Only-----------------------W- -----------------Water and Sewerage-------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                                  ."
Income before Depreciation and Interest                   2,402      2,894;      3,401       3,983      4,638       4,999      5,803       7,121       7,869       8,871       9,295
Less:  Increase in Accounts Receivable                       23         51          35          38         44          29          66         8G          50          63           27
Net Cash Generated from Operations                   2,379      2,843       3,366       3,945      4,594      4,970       5,737       7,041       7,819      8,808        9,268
Lagadadi Contractor                                       7,109                      -           -          -           -                 -                -           -            -
Proceeds from Loans:
Lagadadi financing                                       -      8,o89         866"       980       1,1041     1,231         300 J       319 VI      339/       177            -
IBRD                                                     --                   580     10,410       6,010      5,560       2,190           -           -          -            -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                    9,488     10,''32      4,812      15,335     11,708      11,761      8,227       7,360       8,158      8,985        9,268
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Project Expenditures:
Water Supply                                             -         20         685     11,080       2,745         710        260           -           -           -           -
Sewerage                                                 -          -       1,165      1,460       4,055      5,o60       2,760                       -           -
Other Capital Expenditures:
Water Supply                                        8,547         100                      -                 -            1,200       1,600       1,700      1,900          400
Sewerage                                                --                                                                   -         300         400        400          400
Discharge of Liability to Lagadadi Contractor                 -      7,109           -           -          -           -                      -
Debt Service:                                                                                                                j
Interest Capitalized:                                   -         7
Lagadadi Financing          '_                               757        866         980 F    1,lo4l      1,231+   |   300 l        319 j      339j        177 
IBRD                                                           -        200         440      1,O6O       1,420         330           -          -           -            -
Interest Charged to Revenue:                                                                                           I
Lagadadi Financing .       & At   -                -         343        304         264         224        184       1,159       1,033        907         963          936
IB-RDE-                                                        -    -                 -           -          -         897       1,763      1,719       1,671        1,620
Amortization:
Lagadadi Financing                             2,476         834        834         834         834        834       3,290       3,290      3,290       3,897        3,670
IBRD                                               -           -           -          -           -           -        285         601        645         693          744
Increase in Net Current Assets                              508          -           -           -      _--                         -                -                 -            -
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS              11,531      9,163       4,054    i1,o58       10,022       9,439      10,481      8,906       9,000       9,701       7,770
Net Cash Generation (Deficit)                            (2,043)     1,769         758         277      1,686       2,322      (2,254)    (1,546)       (842)       (716)      1,498
Cash Balance, Beginruing of Year                          3,111      1,068       2,837       3,595      3,872       5,558       -,880      5,62'6      4,o80       3,238       2,522
Cash Balance, End of Year                                 1,068      2,837       3,595       j,S       5,558       ',380       5,626      4,o8o       3,238      2,522        4,020
Debt-.'ervice Coveragre                                       -         1.5        1.5         1.6         1.4        i.4         0.9         1.0        1.1.        1.2          1.3
1/ 1971 fi,ures are for a 10 month: period.
i,ebruiary 16, 1972






ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED BALANCE SHEETS 1971-1981
(Eth; 000's)
As at July 7,      1971      1972       1973      1374      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979       1980      1981
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Water Supply                                      15,843    52,290    53,230    55,284    62,355    72,755    74,545    73,814    75,353    77,130    80,730
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                    6 697     7,743     8 808      9 9 4    11 161    12 616    14,107    15 583    17 089    18,632    20,247
9,t46    44,547    44442     5,3'0    51,         60,139    60,438    58,2 3      51                  60,43
Sewerage                                                              -          -         -              -    14,096    17,006    17,406    17,806    18,206
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                        -         -          -         _         _         -       282        622       970     1 326      1,690
_ _             _         _          _             -    13,614    16,314  3i           l         16,516
Preliminary Studies                                  411       178       178        1, 3      178       178       178        178       178       178        178
Work-in-Progress                                  35,337         -     1,976    13,882    15,775    13,796      2,760      2,800     3,300     3,600        400
Current Assets
Inventory                                            865       885       895        905       915       925       935       945        955       965        975
Accounts Receivable: Water and Sewerage              179       230       265        303       347       376       442        522       572       635        662
Miscellaneous                  444        444       444       444       444       444        444       444       444        444       444
Cash                                               1,068     2,837     3,595      3,872     5,558     7,880     5,626     4,080      3,238     2,522     4,020
TOTAL ASSETS                                 47,450    49,121    51,775    64,954         74,411    83,738    84637     83,584    83,387     22    83,678
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                                       121       121       121        121       121       121        121       121       121        115       115
Lagadadi Contractor                                     7,109              -          -         -              -          -         -         -          -         -
Loans:
Lagadadi financing                                21,046    28,301    28,333    28,479    28,749    29,146    26,156    23,185    20,234    16,520    12,850
IBRD                                                   -         -       580    10,990    17,000    22,560    24,465    23,864    23,219    22,526    21,782
Customers' Deposits                                     1,253     1,273      1,283     1,293     1,303      1,313     1,323     1,333     1,343      1,353     1,363
Capital:
Share Capital                                     17,015    17,015    17,015    17,015    17,015    17,015    17,015    17,015    17,015    17,015    17,015
Accumulated Surplus                                  906     2,411      4,443     7,056    10,223    13,583    15,557    18,066    21,455    25,793    30,553
TO1AL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES                47,450    49,121    51,775    64,954    74,411    83,738    84,637    83,584    83,387    83,322    83,678
NOTE:  Contingent Liability
Contractor's claims totalling approximately Eth$15 million are outstanding in connection with the construction of the new Lagadadi supply
facilities (see Annex 1). These claims are disputed by AWSA and no amount has been incorporated in the above figures for settlement of such claims.
j Figures shown for 1971 are from an unaudited Balance Sheet prepared by the Authority.
February 16, 1972






ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2 pages
ETIOPIA
AMDIS ADBA1L WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1.        All forecasts are generally based on projections developed by
the managament and engineering consultants and were considered reasonable
at the time of the appraisal mission,
Income Statement
2.        Non-revenue water is defined as the difference between water
produced and water sold. For FY 1971 the figure of 35% is exceptional in
that it includes provision of free water from standpipes during the cholera
outbreak. From 1972 through 1976 non-revenue water is projected at 30%,
reflecting anticipated losses from the present distribution system which
is in poor condition. Substantial completion of the project is expected
to reduce these losses and non-revenue water is reduced to 25% in 1976
and thereafter, with a small additional iiirovement to 23% in 1981.
3.        Water sales are asaumed to increase at about 15% per annum from
1972 to 1975 and at about 9% thereafter. Water revenues are based on an
average rate of Eth$0.485, reflecting continuation of present experionce.
4.        Sewerage charges are based on a surcharge of 75% of the water
charge. This rate could be reduced as utilization of the system increases.
Sewage volume is estimated at 80% of water usage. The number of sewerage
connections are estimated at approximately 1 ,000 per year after the
constructiam period.
5.        Cperating Costs:  Chenicals and electricity are estimated to
increase in relation to increases in water production. Salaries and wages
are adjusted to reflect organisational changes and salary increases.
Miscellaneous expenses include such items as insurance, unifomss, safety
equipment, small tools and travel.
6.        Depreciation is calculated at the rate of 2% per annum on the
gross value of fixed assets.
Sources and Application of Funds Statement
7.        Increases in accounts receivable are related to increases in
revenues.
8.        IBRD loan disbursements are directly related to foreign exchange
eopenditures, including interest during construction.
9.        Other capital expenditures in 1971 reflect the substantial completion
of the Lagadadi project. Expenditures from 1977 onwards are on expansion
of the water supply secondary network and the sewerage system.



ANNEX 1 
Page 2 of 2 pages
10.       Debt service payments are in accordance with loan terms as
detailed in paragraphs 15 and 16.
11.       Nominal increases are assumed in Inventory and Customers'
Deposits.
12.       Variations in accounts payable are considered to be minor and
are ignored.
Balance Sheets
13.       The opening balance sheet dated 1971 reflects revaluation of the
water supply fixed assets (excluding Lagadadi) from a depreciated value
of approximately Eth$6.1 million to approximately Eth$9.1 million. Lagadadi
assets are included at Eth$35,337,000, being costs incurred to balance
sheet date.
14.       Preliminary studies Gafarsa II:  The amount of Eth$178,000
eipended on studies for this project is shown as an asset but not added
as an item of water supply plant. Eventual disposition of this item will
depend upon plans for future construction.
15.       IBRD Loan: A loan of Eth$241,750,000 (Us$10.8 million) has been
assumed. Repayments have been calculated based on a 25-year loan with
approximately 5 years grace and interest at 7-1A% per annum.
16.       Lagadadi Debt:  (paragraph 6.02 in the text)  The balance
outstanding at June 1972 will be approximately Eth$28.0 million. Payments
on the Eth$7.5 million loan are assumed paid as scheduled but payments
of both interest and principal on the Eth$25.0 million are assumed to be
deferred until after July 7, 1976. Interest not paid during this period
has been capitalized at 6% per annum and the revised loan amount is
assumed to be repaid over the period December 1976 to December 1984.
17.       Contingent Liability:  Contractor's claims totalling approximately
Eth$15.0 million are outstanding in connection with the construction of
the Lagadadi project. These claims are disputed by AWSA and no amount has
been incorporated in the financial forecasts for settlement of such claims.
March 1, 1972



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2 pages
ETHIOPIA
ADIXES ABABE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Water Rates and Proposed Water and Sewerage Rates
Water Rates
Water service connections including public fountains are
generally metered and charged for. The standard rate for metered house
connections is Eth$0.50/m3. In addition to the water rate, customers
are also charged a meter rent and a deposit which are based on the size
of the connection. These rates have remained unchanged since January 30,
1948.
In addition to the metered rate there is also a flat rate
charge for non-metered connections which is applicable where properties
are connected without installation of meters. This is a temporary
situation pending subsequent meter installation as the policy is to have
a fully metered system. Rates charged vary from Eth$3.00 to Eth$40.00
per month, depending upon the category of consumer.
In special circumstances wate5 is supplied by tank or lorry at
a rate of Eth$8.00 to Eth$15.00 for 2 m  to 6 m3.
Water from standpipes is sold at Eth$0.01 per jar (1 jar = 20 to
30 liters). Fountain-keepers are employed to make such sales. Revenue
control is maintained by the use of tickets which are issued for each
sale and cross-checked with meter readings for each standpipe. The
revenue yield for this water is approximately Eth$0.30 per m3.
Other Charges
Meter Rents
Up to 1/2 inch connection   : Eth$0.25 per month
3/41  to 1-1/4" connection   : Eth$0.50 per month
1-1/2t' connection          : Eth$1.00 per month
Connection Charges
Based on actual cost. It is reduced 60% if customer supplies
his own materials.
Re-connection Charges (where disconnected for non-payment of account)
50% of original connection charge.



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2 pages
Deposits
3/8" connection      :  Eth$10
1/2"     "           :  Eth$15
3/4"    it           :Eth$20
1"       .           :  Eth$25
1-1/4"   "           :  Eth$30
1-1121"   ":  Eth$35
AWSA will introduce a simplified connection procedure shortly using a
standard charge for connections within a specified distance of mains.
The re-connection charge will also be standardized. The basic water rate
will remain unchanged.
Sewerage Rates
Rates will be established prior to commencement of service and
will be calculated to cover operating costs, including depreciation, and
a return of 8-1/2% on capital0 The amounts so determined may be collected
by means of a surcharge on water bills for premises provided with sewerage
service. It is presently estimated that such surcharge will be 75% of
the water bill and financial projections have been prepared on this basis.
Some reduction in this surcharge will be possible as the degree of
utilization of the system increases. The actual rates will be based on
the management consultants' recommendations.
The consultants will also make recommendations on the rate
structure, connection charges, etc. for the sewer service and on sewage
collection fees for the unsewered areas.
March 1, 1972



ETHIOPIA
:Wed: t:Q-.E: f:   tA 1DOIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY
AND: SEWERAGE PROJECT
/ rS   D   :   t W: a \ L  e X ' e Jf   X   Ed'   ) { D \ E t i m: n  EXJSTIN(  AND  PLANNED,
MNiECIPAL WATER SYSTEMS
S; -.  :0  ; 3;:  E   | 30  0 50 / E R I T R E A \                           :    \5i;         ;+: m weYe 
x x  wntep system
T  G   R  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   O     RO     O      20H~
- .  B-   0    0 7 .;   0-0  3 E G E $D E R                                          2        3001,-
K Rte Dib.9
y % 53 ;  (  0X  t c.                                                                                  Gibulf   (ond l   AV e n'
G 0 1    m~ ~ ~~~~~~~   0MA   
:  |  ,  t 4 ;4 2 \ _ 5; 0 2 g k ;: i f 9 11(0,  001 0 1 0 0 
j~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~     ~      ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               A, L  I> AMt  J t   Ll -
WO L L EBR               Aro                                                                                                 . A
0 0 \ S i   .   e,   < A F F A   - e  .     ,                      /                                           /  Q V~~H A  RR A 
K ;0  <     Q        SK A          MNY   C F And
MARCHt Oil                                                                                                                              IBRD-5333.






MAP
'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
| | | | | S Roilwoys l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                               N              =0 /   1  
-2s00~ ~~~~Pmpn Coturlne                                                             = =n                  1 H     y1
A ~~~Pomt t ngees C9K 
A~~~~~ FE AE\
SWAERAGE-     SYSTEM        MorsedirntS 200= Inr  or oor                                                                                              1                     2 zzjz~EHOI
EI       ____Mr swr                                                                          r     /EISTINGAN PROPOSED                                FACILITIES !1e
--------~~~A A_____   oi of secondary netw/mork b(Seoor sewers not strewn)     M =        ;  X 
ARCH  1971                                                                                                                                                                     IBPD-E3KE3H3A  
Uoins ot dirnm~~11.1                                                 ELEGNA /mo or   
k . Pumping m~~oilst\:=  iXEHOI
K E3 Rupn Nbkn I)<5<\ ADSAAAWTRSPL
.44 1  % rODee  e
UARCH~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 197                                                                                                                             IBR-33



