                                                       RP1202 V10



            Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project




Resettlement Action Plan for Subproject for Rehabilitation of Water Supply
                         System of Ornok Village


             Kabak Aiyl Okrug, Jumgal Raion, Naryn Oblast
Annex 1. Minutes of the 1-st Village Meeting
Annex 2. Social Economic Survey of PAPs
Annex 3. Calculation of compensation for lost harvest
Annex 4. Copy of the Aiyl Okmotu’s Order on Establishment of a Grievance
Redress Commission
Annex 5. Copies of the Aiyl Okmotu’s Order on Establishment of a Compensation
Committee
Annex 6. Copies of the Aiyl Okmotu’s Ordinance on Land Acquisition and
Allocation of New Land Parcels to PAPs
Annex 7. Minutes of the 2-nd Village Meeting
1. Introduction
Access to safe and reliable drinking water supply is still very erratic in rural Kyrgyzstan, and it
necessitates urgent improvements. The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic has identified
reliable and well-functioning basic infrastructure services as a priority for sustainable national
development. The Government and Parliament have focused on the rural water and sanitation
sector and sought World Bank and other donor’s support for investment in the sector.
A first investment was approved by the World Bank in 2002 and closed in 2008, and a second
investment, which would build on the first Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSSP),
was approved in April 2009. When the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (2002-2008)
closed, it was assessed to have improved access to drinking water for 350 thousands residents of
rural areas of the three Northern regions of Issyk Kul, Naryn and Talas. In May 2009 the
representatives of the Kyrgyz Republic and of the International Association for Development
(IDA) signed an agreement for financing of «the Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project» (RWSSP-2) (the Grant № Н462-KG, the Credit № 4560 KG), to rehabilitate water
schemes in the same regions. The RWSSP-2 implementation period is from 2009 to 2013. The
RWSSP-2 aims to:
       •   Improve the access to drinking water for participating communities;
       •   Improve sanitary and hygiene practices in rural areas at the individual, household and
           institutional levels.
The project consists of four components:
Component A: Water Supply Infrastructure and Equipment
Component B: Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion Program
Component C: Institutional Development
Component D: Project Management
Component A. Water Supply Infrastructure and Equipment
This component provides finances to local communities to rehabilitate or expand the existing
rural water supply systems. This component will also finance (a) refurbishment or construction
of demonstration sanitation facilities in schools and medical posts and (b) equipment for
maintaining the water supply systems, (c) development of detailed design documents and
exercise of technical supervision over implementation of subprojects.
The following subprojects will be implemented under the RWSSP-2:
   i.      3 subprojects for rehabilitation of RWSSP-1 outputs ( in Korumdu, Termir-Kashat and Chelpek
           villages);
  ii.      Rectification (limited repair works) of 26 subprojects of RWSSP-1;
 iii.      Implementation of 6 new subprojects in 6 villages: Tugol Say (Naryn Oblast), Uch –Emchek
           (Talas Oblast), Jele-Dobo, Ak Kochkor, Koochy and Baltabay (Yssyk Kul Oblast).
 iv.       Construction and demonstration of sustainable sanitation and hygiene facilities in medical
           institutions and schools in selected villages covered by RWSSP-1 and RWSSP-2 (budget
           approximates to USD 0.33 million).
Component B: Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion Program
This component focuses on improving the living standards, the environment and the public
health through arrangement of safe and reliable water supply and sanitation systems in the
village by rendering technical assistance, including construction of sanitary facilities
(rehabilitation of demo sanitary facilities in schools and medical institutions is included in the
component A as part of works for creation of infrastructure) and delivery of trainings on
sanitation and hygiene for the population.
The component provides for promoting sanitation and hygiene education among the population
through organizations of Initiative Groups consisting of members of Rural Health Committees
(RHC), representatives of schools and village activities and conducting trainings with their
involvement among the population using an interactive facilitation method engaging the
community “Joint Change of Hygiene and Sanitation”.
Component C: Institutional Development
This Project component finances consulting services meant to assist the Government to ensure
sustainability of water supply programs in rural areas, including support in (a) approving and
implementation of the Sector Strategy developed under the previous project; (b) development or
revision of the legislation to ensure collaborative work between the CDWUUs and local self-
governments, including development and institutionalization of new agreements between the
Aiyl Okmotu and CDWUUs; (c) training and assistance for CDWUUs to build on the experience
and tools developed under RWSSP, including ensuring that gender, voice, and choice in
participatory processes are taken into account; (d) strengthen the project Management
Information System by adding a GIS interface and consolidating a country-wide database on
village-level water supply and sanitation.
Component D: Project Management
The component finances the following: limited equipment and vehicles, operating costs (staff
salaries, in-country travel, and mandatory employer contributions to the Social Fund of the
Kyrgyz Republic) and training associated with project implementation; monitoring and
evaluation activities, including regular impact surveys/assessments and annual audits.


2. Project description
Subproject for “Rehabilitation of rural water supply systems in Ornok” is aimed to improve
access to potable water for villagers. Population of Ornok Village, Kabak Aiyl Okrug, Naryn
Raion is 1300 people.
Following the bidding results for “Rehabilitation of rural water supply systems in Ornok”
Contract No. IDA-RWSSP-CW-2014-16 was awarded to “Jumgalsuukurulush”. The contract
value is KGS 8 385 740. Implementation period is from 03.06.2014 to 03.10.2014.


Major Project Activities:
Following works are to be completed under the subproject:
       Rehabilitation of the water intake site;
       Rehabilitation of water intake;
       Rehabilitation of chlorination building;
       Rehabilitation of water pipelines and distributive networks 2452 meters long;
       Rehabilitation of 5 m³ reservoirs;
       Rehabilitation of pump station with the installation of a submersible pump;
       Rehabilitation of sanitary protection zone of head water intake;


3. Involuntary Resettlement under the Project


Construction of new water intake will impact private property as the works will be on private
lands used for agricultural needs.
1. At the water intake site - 1 PAP.
This Resettlement Action Plan was prepared in accordance with the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) developed for RWSSP-2, which in turn was prepared in compliance with the
World Bank OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.


Identified impacts:
Agricultural lands (perennial grasses) were under the impact by works for rehabilitation of water
supply system in Ornok.
1) Land plot belonging to Berdaliev S. was identified at the head intake. It was built on
agricultural land (perennial grasses).
In order to implement the subproject objective, land acquisition was completed for head water
intake (1 PAP) on the basis of order issued by Aiyl Kenesh (copy in Annex 6). In accordance
with RPF for PAP with acquired land, an equal land plot was provided within area not exceeding
the 3-rm radius from acquired plots (copies of decisions on allocation of new land plots are
attached in Annex 6).


4. Legal Framework

4.1 The World Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12
The RWSSP-2 triggered the World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement as
some works may require temporary or permanent land acquisition. Project activities include
construction of rural water supply facilities, including laying of pipes to delivery water to public
standpipes or individual connections. The routes of pipelines may pass across fields, therefore
temporary land acquisition with subsequent rehabilitation it to the initial state. Pumping stations
are usually installed on state owned land, however, in some cases, if no such land is available or
usable, construction of a water intake with a pumping station may require permanent acquisition
of public land.

Development of relevant impact mitigation measures and compensation for impact of land
acquisition triggered by the Project activities will be carried out in line with the Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF) developed specifically for RWSSP-2.

The RPF identifies the possible impacts from project activities, describes the range of potential
impacts (temporary and permanent) to land use/access and structures, and specifies the
compensation and resettlement assistance/procedures for the same. Where there is a gap between
national and World Bank procedures, the latter will prevail for all activities financed under this
project.

The RPF is intended as a practical tool to guide the preparation of Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs) for each subproject associated with resettlement impacts based on the guidelines and
procedures highlighted in the RPF document.

The basic objectives of the RPF are to: (i) guide ARIS, national and local self government in
properly identifying, compensating, and restoring the livelihoods of Project Affected Persons
(PAPs), (ii) serve as a binding document to ensure payment of compensation and assistance to
PAPs, and (iii) provide direction in preparing, updating, implementing and monitoring of
subproject RAPs.
The RPF includes measures to ensure that PAPs are (i) informed about their options and rights
pertaining to resettlement; (ii) consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with
technically and economically feasible resettlement alternatives; and (iii) provided prompt and
effective compensation at full replacement cost for losses of assets attributable directly to the
Project.

The RPF is based on the following principles:

         •     Involuntary resettlement is to be avoided or at least minimized;
         •     PAPs are to be suitably assisted in their efforts to improve, or at least restore, incomes and
               living standards;
         •     PAPs are fully informed and consulted on compensation options;
         •     Lack of formal legal land title is not a barrier to compensation or alternative forms of e
               rehabilitation assistance;
         •     Particular attention is paid to socially vulnerable groups, such as ethnic minorities, female
               headed households, elderly households, etc...and appropriate assistance is provided to help
               them adapt to project-related changes;
         •     Land acquisition and resettlement is conceived and executed as a part of the project, and the
               full costs of compensation are included in project costs and benefits;
         •     Compensation/rehabilitation assistance will be paid prior to ground levelling,
               demolition, and in any case, before an impact occurs;
         •     Compensation is to be paid at full replacement cost to PAPs, without deductions for
               depreciation or any other purpose.

It should be noted that according to World Bank's Policy OP 4.12, the term resettlement
encompasses more than the 'physical relocation or resettlement' of affected people. It is defined
as the social and economic impacts of a project that are permanent or temporary and are caused
by the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location; or (iv) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the
displaced persons.

4.2. Relevant legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic

The Kyrgyz Republic's Land Code (1999) regulates all matters of land ownership. It provides for
ten cases where a private owner relinquishes rights to land (Article 62), which in turn can be
split into four categories.

First, there are voluntary transfers by owners such as sales and gifts. Second, there are transfers
dictated by change in status of the owner such as, death, revocation of Kyrgyz citizenship for
individual owners or reaching below a 80% threshold ofKyrgyz owners of legal entities owning
the land parcel (foreign ownership of land is not allowed in Kyrgyzstan), invalidation of a prior
transfer of land rights which led to the current ownership of the land, or the declaration through
court decision of land to be 'without owner' and hence reverting to the State (i.e. abandonment
by the owner). Non-Kyrgyz owners are given a one year grace period to sell land to Kyrgyz
nationals or Kyrgyz-owned legal entities. Third, land may be taken in order to cover the owner's
financial liabilities, though this requires a court decision. The fourth and final method is
expropriation by the state which may occur on the basis of one of seven possible grounds noted
in Article 66 in the Land Code:

    1.       Use of land not according to its targeted purpose
    2.       Land needed for state or public purposes (similar to the principle of eminent domain)
    3.       Non-use of land provided for agricultural use for three years
    4.       Non-use of land provided for non-agricultural productive purposes for a period of time
       stipulated in the original provision
    5. Non-payment of land taxes
    6. Non-payment of social taxes
    7. Annulment of license for mining on the basis of Kyrgyzstan's mining law.

Decisions of court are required to effect expropriation for grounds 1 through 4 listed above.

Voluntary transfers and expropriation for state or public purposes are the methods that are
relevant to situations arising from sub-projects supported via ARIS, since the other types of
expropriation are based on problems of the land-owner which have no relations to any ARIS
sub-project. In practice, when there is need to utilize land that is privately owned for a sub-
project benefiting the community, ARIS should at all times seek to implement such sub-projects
on Government land or land owned by the village but which is not being used by any group.
When this is not possible and private land is used, or some persons suffer any restrictions in
access or resources, then appropriate compensation as per this RPF will be given.

Expropriation as per Kyrgyz legislation is very difficult and not practiced. Seeking involuntary
resettlement through expropriation for state or public purposes under Kyrgyz law is not
practical. Article 68 of the Land Code outlines the procedure for expropriation of land. The
procedures call for a voluntary agreement between the public entity and the private owner of
land whereby the former pays the later financial compensation for the land, which may include
the provision of another land parcel. In the event that there is no agreement, the state must go to
court to force the owner to provide the desired land parcel. The private owner must be fully
compensated for the market value of all of the financial interests in the given land parcel.

This procedure has never been carried out, and practitioners note that implementing legislation
is needed to clarify procedural issues such as appraisal of land values, compensation,
demonstration of public/state needs, and other matters. There has been a lack of public
investment into infrastructure in settled areas that would have require the exercise of eminent
domain in post-independence Kyrgyzstan. It would seem to be likely that there have been small
cases where de facto land was taken, but these did not occur in accordance with the Land
Code's provision. There are not many recorded cases of private citizens challenging in court a
taking of land from them (except for enterprise land sales, discussed below). It should further
be noted that only an 'authorized entity' can initiate expropriation, which means either a state or
municipal entity or an entity specially designated by the state. A Community Drinking Water
Users Unions would not be such an entity.

 The major distinctions between the existing legislation in Kyrgyzstan and OP 4.12 is the fact that
 Kyrgyz law does not make any provisions to assist or compensate illegal users of publicly owned
 land who may be required to move in order for a sub-project to be realized. Furthermore, it does
 not take into consideration the possibility that leaseholders working on publicly owned land
 may have made investments in that land which will also require compensation.

 4.3. Kyrgyz Republic Land Code and the World Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement OP
 4.12.

 Differences between Kyrgyz Republic Law (Land Code) and WB policy are outlined in the table
 below.
                   Table - Comparison of Kyrgyz Republic and WB Policy
 Provisions of Kyrgyz Republic's              WB's Policy on Involuntary Resettlement
 Land Code
Compensation for acquired land only        Lack of formal title to land will not bar PAPs
for titled landowners, those with formal   from entitlements, those people without legal
land use shares, or holders of customary   title to land and/or structures occupied or used
rights.                                    by them are entitled to various options of
                                           resettlement assistance, provided they
                                           cultivated/occupied the land before the
                                           eligibility cut-off date.
Consultation with PAPs or communities PAPs are to be fully informed and consulted on
in respect of land or asset confiscation  compensation, entitlements and resettlement
not required.                             options incl. relocation sites. Includes
                                          consultation, participation, information
                                          dissemination campaigns, and opportunities to
                                          participate in monitoring based on the nature and
                                          scale of impacts.
                                          Resettlement plans to be developed and prepared
                                          in consultation with PAPs and other
                                          stakeholders.
                                          Grievance redress mechanisms are to be
                                          established.
                                          Requirement for gender specific consultation and
                                          information disclosure.
Land compensation is at replacement       Land for land as a priority, with replacement land
rates                                     to be acceptable to PAPs and to be of same size
through provision of land for land or in and productive capacity. If suitable land cannot
cash.                                     be found, compensation in cash, or a
Normative land prices are established     combination of land and cash, at current market
through coefficients.                     value without deduction of the costs of any
No reference as to whether there are      transaction (administrative charges, taxes,
deductions.                               registration or titling costs), or depreciation.
Compensation for other assets             The amount of cash or kind needed to replace an
(structures, crops and trees and business asset in its existing condition, at current market
income) is at replacement cost. No        price without deduction of the costs of any
provision for severe impacts or           transaction (administrative charges, taxes,
vulnerable PAPs. Does not provide for registration or titling costs), depreciation or for
transportation and transition             any material salvaged. Includes provision of
expenses/costs.                           transfer or relocation allowances.
At infrastructure planning stage,         Any land acquisition and resettlement is to
proposals for acquisition of agricultural be avoided, or if it cannot be avoided, it
or high-yielding land discouraged when should be minimized by exploring all viable
other land is available.                  options.
No provision for                          Requires compensation for disruption of
income/livelihood disruption.             livelihoods and loss of income as a result of
                                          land acquisition for project purposes.
Compensation for temporary land           Compensation for temporary land acquisition
acquisition limited to compensation at    for standing crop, all structures regardless of
Government rates for standing crop and legal status at replacement cost or re-
rebuilding of any affected legal          construction of replacement structure as well as
structures.                               compensation for any disruption in access that
                                          may affect income (e.g. for shops) or
                                          livelihood (e.g. access to schools).

In principle, the Land Code of the Kyrgyz Republic and the World Bank Policy both adhere to the
objective of compensation at replacement cost, but Kyrgyz legislation does not provide for
rehabilitation and in practice this has been left to ad hoc arrangements taken by project
proponents in order to meet international donor requirements.

To clarify these issues and reconcile eventual gaps between Kyrgyz legislation and World Bank
Policy, this RPF has been drafted for the Project, ensuring compensation at replacement cost of
all items, the rehabilitation of non-titled people and informal settlers, and the provision of
subsidies or allowances for PAPs that may be relocated, suffer business losses, or may be
severely affected.
The main provisions affording reconciliation of the differences between Land Code and World
Bank Policy include:
          • Any PAPs, regardless of title or not, will be entitled to compensation (for
              structures, crops and trees) and rehabilitation measures under the project. This includes
              land-less people using land and squatters;
          •   PAPs and affected communities will be consulted on options and any impacts of land
              acquisition and resettlement;
          •   If land for land compensation is not technically or sociably feasible, compensation will be
              in cash at full replacement cost at current market value;
          •   Compensation for any other assets affected (structures, crops and trees, as well as
              business/income loss) will be in cash or kind at full replacement cost at current market
              value. Vulnerable and poor PAPs will be entitled to additional measures as relevant, and
              gender issues will be addressed;
          •   Maintenance works will avoid or minimize, as far as possible, the need for land
              acquisition and resettlement; and
          •   Compensation for temporary loss of land or assets or for temporary disruption of income
              will be provided.
 It must be especially noted that under the WB OP 4.12, status of those without legal title is
 clearly defined. In accordance with this policy, those people who do not possess official legal
 title or judicial rights for the land use, but still use the state land are entitled to receive
 compensation, taking into account the investments they made into the state land, their
 labour and lost assets, but not for land ownership as in the case of a titled owner. Instead,
 alternative sites are allocated for their use, or other forms of assistance in lieu of land
 compensation, are provided to those informally using or occupying land to the project cut-
 off date.

 In case of disparity of the laws of the Kyrgyz Republic with the requirements of the policy of
 the WB on involuntary resettlement (OP 4.12), the principles and procedures of OP 4.12 should
 be applied.


5. Eligibility
According to the WB involuntary resettlement policy OP 4.12, the following individuals are
entitled to compensation:
 (a) Those who have formal rights to land including customary/communal land, traditional
 and religious rights recognized under Kyrgyz Republic Law.
 (b) Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time the project or census
 commences but have a claim to such land or assets provided that such claims are
 recognized under the laws of Kyrgyz Republic or become recognized through a process
 identified in the RPF/ RAP.
 (c) Those having no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying, using or
 getting their livelihood from before the cut-off date, but are recognized under World Bank
 OP 4.12.
Those covered under a) and b) above are to be provided compensation for land they lose, and
other assistance in accordance with the policy. Persons covered under c) above are to be provided
with resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation for the land they occupy or use, and other
assistance, as necessary, to achieve the objectives set out in this policy, if they occupy or use the
project area prior to a cut-off date established by the local Government Technical Planning Teams
and acceptable to the Bank. Persons who encroach on the area after the cut-off date are not
entitled to compensation or any other form of resettlement assistance. All persons included in a),
b) or c) above are
to be provided with compensation for loss of assets other than land.
Therefore, it is clear that all affected persons irrespective of their status or whether they have
formal titles, legal rights or not, are eligible for some kind of assistance if they occupied the land
before the entitlement cut-off date

Eligibility for assistance under World Bank OP 4.12 also applies for project affected persons
even if it is deemed that Kyrgyz legal provisions provide for temporary or permanent acquisition
of private land immediately adjacent to existing public roads without compensation.
Compensation eligibility will be limited by a cut-off date to be set for each subproject and PAPs
who settle in the affected areas after the cut-off date will not be eligible for compensation.
The entitlement cut-off date refers to the time when the census of persons and their property in the
area is carried out, i.e. the time when the project area has been identified and when the socio-
economic study is taking place. Thereafter, no new cases of affected people will be considered.
Persons who encroach the area after the socio-economic study (census and valuation) are not
eligible for compensation or any form of resettlement assistance. RAPs, whose right for land
ownership and use prior to the cut-off can be demonstrated, remain entitled to assistance whether
they were registered in census or not.
The cut-off date under the SP “Rehabilitation of rural water supply system in Kazybek, Kyzyl-
Tuu, Kara-Bulun villages” is August 4, 2014 when the general meeting of the village was held.
At this meeting, ARIS Safeguards Specialist specified measures and procedures of RPF and
explained principles RAP preparation. The Census Commission was established at this meeting.
CHylpakov N. (Chairperson of CDWUU) was designated as a Census Manager; and the
beginning of census was announced (see Minutes of the Meeting, Annex 1)
The Matrix below demonstrates eligibility for compensation and/or assistance in elimination of
adverse consequences/losses for various types of assets and RAP categories under the Project.

RPF Entitlement Matrix: Eligible PAPs, Assets and Compensation Guidelines

 Project Impact        PAP Category             Asset Affected     Compensation Guide
Permanent                                                          Replacement land of
acquisition of        Land owner               Land                equivalent market value
land for works                                                     as priority option within
such as                                                            3 km radius. Failing
construction of                                                    availability of land, cash
pumping station.                                                   compensation at market rate. If
                                                                   over 10% of land is acquired,
                                                                   an additional
                                                                   5% of replacement value will
                                                                   be paid (increasing to 10% if
                                                                   over 20%) as a severe impact
                                                                subsidy. If the remainder of the
                                                                plot is not economically viable
                                                                the entire plot will be
                                                                purchased.
Permanent               Land renter or        Land              In addition to land owner
acquisition             share-cropper                           compensation. Re- imbursement
of land for                                                     of rent for remainder of contract
works such as                                                   period, plus 3 months of
construction of                                                 rent/share-cropping benefit as
pumping station                                                 disturbance allowance.
Permanent               Informal              Land              In addition to land owner
acquisition             user/occupier                           compensation. Compensation
of land for                                                     equal to 2 months of
works such as                                                   rent/share- cropping benefit as
construction of                                                 disturbance allowance.
pumping station
Permanent               Owner                 Crops             In addition to land
acquisition                                                     compensation, will be allowed
of land for                                                     to take standing crop and cash
works such as                                                   compensation for 2 seasons or
construction of                                                 annual crop yield whichever
pumping station                                                 higher at highest market rate.
Permanent               Tenant farmer,        Crops             In addition to land
acquisition             share-cropper or                        compensation, allowed to take
of land for             informal                                standing crop and cash
works such as           user/occupier                           compensation for 2 seasons or
construction of                                                 annual crop yield whichever
pumping station                                                 higher at highest market rate.
                                                                Repay,
Permanent               Owner                 Fruit tree        Price of a sapling and
acquisition                                                     cash compensation for
of land for works                                               the value of a mature tree
such as                                                         harvest multiplied by number
construction of                                                 of years it will take for the
pumping station
                                                                sapling to reach maturity.
Permanent               Renter                Fruit tree        Cash compensation for
acquisition                                   produce           the value of a mature tree
of land for works                                               harvest multiplied by the
such as                                                         number of years remaining on
construction of                                                 the rental agreement.
pumping station
Permanent                                     Any structure     Replacement structure or
acquisition of         Owner of structure                       Cash compensation at
legal structure.                             including          replacement value of a new
                                             house, fence, or   structure plus full compensation
                                             sanitation         for all fees needed to make
                                             structure etc..    replacement new structure legal.


Permanent               Owner of structure    Any structure     Replacement structure or
acquisition                                   including         Cash compensation at
of illegal structure                          house, fence,     replacement cost
                                              or sanitation
                                              structure etc.
Vulnerable people   Identified on the   Residential   In addition to compensation
                    basis of social     and           for assets
                    payments            commercial    lost, all labour costs associated
                    (disability         assets        with any re- construction of
                    payments,                         structures or assets will be paid
                    pensioners,                       in
                    widows, female-                   full. If any additional
                    headed                            impacts are identified, a
                    households, and                   lump-sum equivalent to one
                    impoverished                      year of total social assistance
                    households) and                   payments could be paid.
                    only if project
                    renders them
                    vulnerable
6. PAP Census
Following consultations and village meetings with the commission comprised of AO Head,
CDWUU Chairperson, Aiyl Kenesh with participation of ARIS Safeguard Specialist, socio-
economic census of affected parties was conducted (see the Results in Annex 2). On-site census
identified 1 affected household:


            №     Name of        Plot area        Agricultural    Owner’s status
                  Household Head (affected)       crop            (official owner,
                                                                  owner without
                                                                  documents)

            1     Berdaliev S.      0,156 ha      perennial       official owner
                                                  grasseses
7. Compensation for land acquisition and crop loss
Compensation for permanent land acquisition
In compliance with RPF requirements, all the RAPs whose plots were permanently underwent
acquisition for SP activity, receive equal plots at the distance not above 3 km from the previous
area.


№                  Name of PAP                       Plot area*            Plot area *
                                                    (undergone           (compensated)
                                                    acquisition)

 1    Berdaliev S.                                    0,156 ha             0,156 ha


* Copies of AO orders for permanent land acquisition and compensation in terms of equal plots
are attached in Annex 6.


Under this RAP, the compensation for loss of perennial grasseses was calculated for 2 seasons.


Compensation for crop loss
Compensation of crop loss is calculated by the following formula:
                  I=S*U*P
Where:
     I – compensation amount for crop loss
     S – affected plot area (ha)
     U – average yield of agricultural crop per 1 ha/year
     P – amount per 1 U (KGS)
     K – compensation for 2 seasons


№ Name of PAP           Plot area     Agricult    Averag      Amount     Compe     Compensati
       *                   (S)        ural crop   e yield     per unit   nsation   on amount
                                                    (U)         (P)       for 2        (I)
                                                                         seasons
                                                                           (K)

1. Berdaliev S.         0,156 ha      Perennial   5trailers    10000        2         15600 KGS
                                       grasses                  KGS

                                   Total                                           15600 KGS

     *Calculations of compensations for each RAP are attached in Annex 3


All the losses and impacts caused by project activity will be compensated for the account of the
project. Heads of all the households were familiarized with project impact levels, compensation
amounts and payment procedures. Each Head received a copy of calculation act for
compensation signed by all commission members (see calculations in Annex 3). The acts
describe in details the calculation and amount of compensation for crop loss.


8. Grievance Redress Procedures

In the course of preparation and implementation of RAP some grievance and grievances may
occur towards the process of resettlement, compensation amount, assistance and further
activities. Therefore, the following grievance redress mechanism has been prepared:


PAPs were informed about their rights and procedures during meetings and consultations. They
will also receive a copy of RAP providing detailed description of the procedures for handling
grievances.
Process of grievance redress:
   1. First step. Verbal contact with a project authorized representative. The authorized
      representative under this project will be Chylpakov N., the Chairperson of CDWUU.
      Verbal grievance should be registered in the Grievance Log. Each grievance should be
      assigned with an individual identification number. Progress of grievance redress should
      be reflected in the Log; and all the registered activities should be completed. The
      Grievance Log should also name the individuals responsible for redressing of each
      individual grievance/grievance. The ones should register the dates of the following
      events:
              •    date the complaint was reported
              •    date the Grievance Log was uploaded onto the project database;
              •    date information on proposed corrective action sent to complainant (if
                   appropriate);
              •    the date the complaint was closed out; and
              •    the date response was sent to complainant.

       If a grievance is not redressed within 5 days, the grievance should be considered at the
       further level. Grievance redress or its transfer to the further level should be registered in
       the Log.

   2. Second step. If a grieved person doesn’t receive a grievance redress within 5 days, the
      grievance should be filed in writing to the ARIS, addressing Ismailov Kubanychbek
      Iskakovich, the Executive Director of the ARIS at the address given below. The
      grievance letter should be signed and dated by the aggrieved person.

       Address:
       ARIS Head Office
       102, Bokonbaev st.
        720040
       Bishkek
       Kyrgyz Republic
       tel.: + 996 (312) 30–18–05, 30–17–53, 30–17–54, 62–07–52
       fax: + 996 (312) 62–47–48,
       e-mail: .

   3. Jumaliev Kanybek, the ARIS Safeguards Specialist (office phone: 0 (312) 30-18-05 add.
      175, mobile: 0 (555) 01-04-85, e-mail: ) and authorized project representative should
      provide consultations to the grieved person within 14 days after receipt of the grievance.
      If the grievance pertains to assets appraisal, a few appraisals can take place until the sides
      reach consensus. The appraisal can be carried out by other independent appraisers. The
      authorized project representative and ARIS Specialist will provide assistance to the
      grieved person thorough all the stages to facilitate grievance redress and ensure effectives
      of grievance consideration.

   4. If a aggrieved person doesn’t consider his/her grievance redressed after the response, s/he
      applies to the relevant commission. Grievance Redress Commission (Commission) was
      established under the Order # 80 dated July 15, 2014 (See copy of the Order in Annex 4)
      comprising the following representatives:

       №     Name                              Position                             Telephone
             Shishenov M.                      Head of Aiyl Okmotu
        1
             Chylpakov N.                      Chairperson of CDWUU
        2
             Imerov B.                         Chairperson of Aiyl Kenesh
        3
             Sadykova N.                       Secretary of Ayil Okmotu
        4
             Samsaliev M.                      Land Specialist of Ayil
        5
                                               Okmotu
       Decision made by the Commission and agreed with all the sides should be legalized in
       terms of decision of Aiyl Okmotu.
   5. In case of objections occurred against Commission decision on grievance redress, RAP
      can apply to the Court.


  9.Consultations with PAPs

On August 4, 2014 the first village meeting of Ornok village was held in the Aiyl Okmotu office,
with participation of the Head of Ayil Okmotu, deputies of the aiyl Kenesh, chairman of
CDWUU and the community of Ornok village. At the meeting, the ARIS Safeguards Specialist
explained goals and procedures of RPF and principles of RAP development. At the meeting
Chylpakov N. (Chairman of CDWUU) was elected to the the Authorized Project Representative
(APR) and launch of the census was announced.
The questions raised by PAPs during the consultations included: “Would families without legal
ownership be eligible for compensation?” and “How will compensation be done and by whom?”
Safeguards Specialist explained to the PAPs the World Bank policies on resettlement, which also
authorizes compensation for illegal owners of the land to be directly transferred to individual
bank accounts.
Upon completion, this RAP will be submitted to the World Bank for approval and review to
ascertain compliance with the WB OP 4.12. Following approval of the World Bank, the RAP
will be disclosed through the info-shop website of the World Bank and the ARIS’ official web-
page, and will also be distributed among aiyl okmotu, PAPs and all other stakeholders.
10.Responsible Agency
Following preparation, RAP will be sent to the World Bank for No Objection RAP should be
implemented after WB approval only. The ARIS will be responsible for RAP implementation,
affected persons census, RAP preparation in co-operation with local authorities and participation
of affected persons. RAP implementation can start after the Bank’s no objection only.


11. Budget
Compensation amount for crop loss calculated in accordance with the RAP will be allocated out
of project funds. The total compensation amount is KGS 15 600.


12. Monitoring and evaluation

ARIS being an agency responsible for implementation of the RAP, will conduct monitoring of
the RAP implementation.

The ARIS Safeguards Specialist responsible for monitoring and evaluation of RAP will carry out
the following activities:

For each RAP a separate file with be opened and the following documents will be saved:
1. RAP
2. Minutes of the first village meeting
3. PAP Census
4. Calculations of compensations
5. Copies of orders on establishment of Compensation Commissions
6. Copies of orders on establishment of Grievance Redress Commissions
7. Minutes of the second village meeting
8. Financial Statements confirming payment of compensations
9. Written confirmation of PAPs on receipt of compensations
10. Written confirmation of lack of grievances and claims from PAPs.

The listed documents will be collected as corresponding measures will be carried out.
 For each RAP a separate Grievance Registration Log will be opened and will contain the
following information:
Primary consideration of the grievance
№ Full name          Address         Contact       Complaint      Date when      Date when        Response to       Date of       PAP’s
                                      phone                           the            the              the          response    satisfaction
                                     number                        complaint      complaint        grievance                      status
                                                                      was            was                                         Yes/No
                                                                  received by    received by
                                                                     APR          the ARIS




Repeated consideration of the complaint (in case if the complainant PAP is not satisfied with the grievance redress outcome)
№      Repeated        Date when      Decision of        Date when the        PAP’s             Date of        Court ruling      Date of
       complaint            the             the          PAP receives      satisfaction        appeal to                       court ruling
        content       complain is      Grievance           the reply         with the          the court
                      received by        Redress                            response
                            the       Commission                             Yes/No
                      commission
1
2
3
4
5

The grievance registration log will be completed as the complaints are submitted and redressed.
II. The database containing the following information about PAPs will be created:
№ Full name Address               Phone          Losses        Loss         Quantity of   Cost   Compe      Date the     PAP’s        Census
                                 number        inflicted to  measuring         losses     per    nsation   compensa    satisfactio   data (*in
                                                   PAP          unit                      unit   amoun        tion     n with the    separate
                                                                                                    t       received   compensa       table)
                                                                                                            by PAP        tion
                                                                                                                         Yes/no
1
2
3
4
5
  Census information:

Househol    Head of             Number of     Number of     Number of      Number        Income source    Place of work or     Transportation      Comments
d№          household           household      children      persons          of                         study and distance   cost to get to the
                                members        younger      older than     students                                               place of
                                               than 13          60                                                              work/study




  Information will be collected and entered into the database as the activities will be carried out.
On quarterly basis information on RAPs implementation under the Project will be collected. To
this effect, the ARIS Safeguards Specialist will monitoring the following indicators and reflect
the findings in quarterly reports on the project implementation progress. Information will be
collected from quarterly reports of technical supervision engineers and will also be gathered
during field visits paid by the ARIS Safeguards Specialist.

No.                                            Indicators


  1     Number of activities requiring preparation of RAP

  2     Number of households and individuals physically or economically resettled by each of
        the activities

  3     Period from design completion to payment compensation to affected persons


  4     Terms of compensation compared to beginning of physical works


  5     Compensation amount paid to each affected household in money terms or type of
        compensation in kind

  6     Number of grieved persons

  7     Number of non-redressed grievances
                                KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                  NARYN OBLAST
                                  JUMGAL RAION
                         KABAK AIYL OKRUG’S AIYL OKMOTU

                                              ORDER


     No.79
     July 15, 2014                                                    Kyzyl-Korgon village


Based on the fact that water mains under Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
works in Ornok Village cross private lands,


1. Establish a committee to calculate damages and compensations, of following members:

     1. Sheishenov M., Head of AO;

     2. Chylpakov N., CDWUU Chairman;

     3. Imerov B., Chairman of Aiyl Kenesh;

     4. Sadykova N., Secretary of Ayil Okmotu;

     5. Samsaliev M., Land Specialist of Ayil Okmotu;



2. The control over execution I assign to myself




Head of AO                                                           Sheishenov M.
                                KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                  NARYN OBLAST
                                  JUMGAL RAION
                         KABAK AIYL OKRUG’S AIYL OKMOTU

                                              ORDER


     No.80
     July 15, 2014                                                   Kyzyl-Korgon village


Based on the fact that water mains under Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
works in Ornok Village cross private lands,


1. Establish grievance committee to deal with damages composed of following members:

     1. Sheishenov M., Head of AO;

     2. Chylpakov N., CDWUU Chairman;

     3. Imerov B., Chairman of Aiyl Kenesh;

     4. Sadykova N., Secretary of Ayil Okmotu;

     5. Samsaliev M., Land Specialist of Ayil Okmotu;



2. The control over execution I assign to myself




Head of AO                                                         Sheishenov M.
Детальный расчет компенсации за люцерну
                               I=S*U*P
                                               Стоимост Сумма
                     Площадь Наименов Средняя
                                                 ь за   компенса
   №     Ф.И.О. ЛПВП участка ание с/х урожайно
                                               единицу ции (сом)
                       (S)   культуры сть (U)
                                                  (P)      (I)
          Алыбаева
   1         Б.Б.       0.05   люцерна    400    200      4000
         Бектурсунов
   2         Э.А.       0.05   люцерна    400    200      4000
          Иманбеков
   3         Т.С.       0.03   люцерна    400    200      2400
         Суюнтбеков
  4           М.        0.05   люцерна    400    200     4000
ИТОГО                                                    10400
Detailed calculation of compensation for perennial grasses (2 seasons)
                               I=S*U*P*K
                                                                 Compen Compen
                                           Average
                                                      Amount sation        sation
           Name of Plot area Agricult yield/
   №                                                  per unit     for 2  amount
             PAP         (S)   ural crop trailer
                                                         (P)      seasons (KGZ)
                                             (U)
                                                                    (K)      (I)
           Berdaliev           perennial
    1          S.       0.156   grasses       5        10000         2     15600
TOTAL                                                                      15600
  №    Name of PAP                    Impacted harvest          Amount
  1   Berdaliev S.   perennial grasseses                         15600
TOTAL                           Compensation for lost harvest    15600
  Annex 2. Social and Economic Profile of Affected Households
Household   Head of        Number of   Number of    Number of      Number     Income source    Place of work or    Transportation cost    Comments
№           household      household    children      persons         of                      study and distance    to get to the place
                           members      younger    older than 60   students                                           of work/study
                                        than 13
    1       Berdaliev S.      8             2           1             2        agriculture         farmer
Naryn Oblast,
Jumgal Raion,
Kabak Aiyl Aimak,
Ornok Village

                          Minutes of the Village Meeting (RWSSP-2)
Place: Building of Ayil Okmotu, Ornok village

Number of participants ______11________, including men____10_____, women_____1____

(List of participants attached)

                                              Agenda
    1. Information on progress of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project –II
    2. Information for residents of the village about Resettlement Policy Framework under the RWSSP-
       2.
    3. Presentation of information on findings of social and economic survey of PAPs.


Decisions adopted at the meeting:

    1. Take into consideration the information on the progress of the Second Rural Water Supply and
       Sanitation Project.
    2. Take into consideration the information provided by the Safeguards Specialist responsible for
       observance of Resettlement Policy Framework under the Second Rural Water Supply and
       Sanitation Project.
       Set deadline for submission of claims by the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) on August 4, 2014
    3. Take into consideration the findings on social and economic survey and appoint Chylpakov N.,
       the Chairman of CDWUU, to be the Project Liaison Officer (PLO).



        Chairman of the meeting:              [signature]            Sheishenov M.
        Secretary of the meeting:             [signature]             Sadykova N.
        Date:                                 August 4, 2014
                                       {Stamp of Ornok Aiyl Okmotu}
                                                                                Participant registration form

                                      List of participants of the village meeting


Naryn Oblast,
Jumgal Raion,
Kabak Aiyl Aimak,
Ornok Village
Date: August 4, 2014

№             Participant’s full name 1                  Title                 Signature
       1.     Sadykova N.                         Secretary of AO
       2.     Sheishenov M.                       Head of AO
       3.     Japarov O.                          Field staff of ARIS
       4.     Berdaliev S.                        Local resident
       5.     Mamatkadyrov A.                     Local resident
       6.     Mambetaliev M.                      Local resident
       7.     Kenjeshov G.                        Local resident
       8.     Alumbekov M.                         Local resident
       9.     Almaz uulu Kadyr                     Local resident
       10.    Boronbaev B.                        Local resident
       11.    Bekturganov D.                       Local resident
       12.
       13.
       14.
       15.
       16.
       17.
       18.
       19.
       20.
       21.
       22.
       23.
       24.
       25.




                                                {Stamp of Ornok Aiyl Okmotu}




1
    Original is the document in Cyrillic (scanned).
