 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14838

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 12/02/2015

               Country: Kyrgyz Republic
             Project ID: P110267                                                     Appraisal                Actual
          Project Name: Second Rural Water           Project Costs (US$M):                       18.37                 13.68
                         Supply & Sanitation
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                        10.0                   9.4
      Sector Board:       Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):                        6.33                  1.38

           Cofinanciers: DFID                         Board Approval Date :                                04/21/2009
                                                               Closing Date:            05/31/2013         10/31/2014
          Sector(s):      Water supply (60%); Sanitation (30%); Public administration- Water; sanitation and flood
                          protection (10%)
         Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (70%); Rural policies and institutions (30%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:             ICR Review                   Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy George T. K. Pitman           Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 This second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSS-2) had almost identical objectives to the first project.
According to the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1), and the Project Appraisal Document (page3) the development
objectives of this second project were:

    “to assist the Borrower in : (a) improving access of participating communities to potable water ; and (b) improving
    hygiene, sanitation and water -related practices at individual , family and institutional levels in the rural areas .”

A third project objective was added in 2012 and Schedule 1 (Amendment 2) to the Financing Agreement of January
2013 states that the restructured project objectives were:

    “to assist the Borrower in (i): improving access to potable water for the participating communities ; and (ii)
    improving hygiene, sanitation and water -related practices at individual , family and institutional levels in the rural
    areas, and (iii) strengthening the institutional framework and capacity for the rural drinking water supply and
    sanitation sector.”


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 11/29/2012

c. Components:
The project had four components and three were modified at the time of restructuring.

A: Water Supply Infrastructure and Equipment (Appraisal estimate US$12.67 million; Actual cost was US$ 10.97
million).
This component was to provide financing to local communities represented by Community Drinking Water Users
Unions/Associations (CDWUUs) to rehabilitate or expand about 70 existing village water supply systems for about
100,000 people in three oblasts (districts) of north-east Kyrgyz Republic. As part of the civil works contracts, this
component financed the following: refurbishment or construction of demonstration sanitation facilities at schools and
medical posts; equipment supplied to selected CDWUUs and/or their associations to maintain the water systems; and
consultancy services for technical supervision of construction activities to ensure the quality of infrastructure financed
by the project.
At restructuring in 2012 the target number of rural water supply schemes to be rehabilitated was reduced to 35 and
the number of beneficiaries to 60,000.

B: Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion Program (Appraisal estimate US$ 0.56 million; Actual cost was US$ 0.68
million).
This component was to support village-level promotion of healthy hygiene and sanitation practices through technical
assistance. Component activities were coordinated with the Republican Centre for Health Promotion that was working
under the Health and Social Protection Sector-Wide Approach Project (SWAP, P084977) to foster health awareness
throughout the country.

As part of second (level 1) restructuring in November 2012 three new sub-components were added: (i) communication
campaigns and advocacy activities to promote rural sanitation; (ii) village-level water and sanitation for health (WASH)
campaigns for hygiene and sanitation awareness; and (iii) building institutional capacity for ARIS in the field of
sanitation and hygiene. This Component was to be financed by DFID in full and be executed by UNICEF, which was
to be contracted by ARIS.

C: Institutional Development (Appraisal estimate US$ 0.36 million and at the time of the 2012 restructuring US$0.15
million was reallocated from component A and the DFID Trust Fund agreed to contribute about US$0.50 million of the
revised budget of US$0.64 million. Actual cost was US$ 0.97 million).
This component was to finance consultancy services to assist Government to ensure sustainability of the rural water
supply programs, including support to: (a) endorse and implement the sector strategy prepared under the earlier
project; (b) develop or revise legislation to ensure synergies among CDWUUs and local self-governance; (c) train and
assist CDWUUs and Department of Rural Water Supply to build on the experience and tools developed by the first
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, ensuring that gender, voice, and choice in participatory processes are
taken into account; and (d) strengthen the project Management Information System by adding a Geographical
Information System (GIS) interface and consolidating a country-wide data base on village-level water supply and
sanitation.
As part of the first (level 2) restructuring in 2011 changes were made by the government to strengthen implementation
arrangements and address performance issues and implementation delays. The responsibilities of the Executing
Agency and the Implementation Entity were transferred from the State Committee of Water Resources and
Amelioration and the Joint Project Management Unit (PMU) to the Community Development and Investment Agency
(ARIS), a NGO, to be implemented in direct coordination with the Republican Centre for Health Promotion. Contractor
payment procedures were streamlined to allow payment directly by ARIS and this eliminated the need to extend
sub-loans or sub-grants that communities would have made directly to contractors.

D: Project Management (Appraisal estimate US$ 1.44 million; Actual cost was US$ 1.06 million).
This component was to finance project management costs including: (i) limited equipment and vehicles, operating
costs (staff salaries, in-country travel, and mandatory employer contributions to the Social Fund of the Kyrgyz
Republic); (ii) training associated with project implementation; (iii) monitoring and evaluation activities including
regular impact surveys/assessments; and (iv) annual audits.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Cost:
 Total project cost was US$ 13.68 million, or 74% of the appraisal cost of US$18.37 million because the budget was
reduced following the partial withdrawal of DFID funds during the second restructuring in 2012. DFID financing was
reallocated to fully fund Component B and 80 percent of Component C. In addition, funds were also reallocated
among components with a substantial decrease of the infrastructure component and a slight increase in the
institutional strengthening component. Thus US$150,000 was reallocated to maximize the impact on improving the
institutional framework and capacity for the RWSS sector in light of the scaled down infrastructure component.
Reduction of funding for this component and reallocation in disbursement categories were made taking into
consideration substantial savings in project management costs and utilizing the existing staff and equipment.
Financing:
The Bank provided US$10.00 million, US$4.50 million as an IDA Grant and US$ 5.50 million as an IDA Credit. The
Grant disbursed US$ 4.72 million and the Credit disbursed US$ 5.81 million. Disbursements were larger than the
original grant/credit because of devaluation of the US$ against Special Drawing Rights, the applicable currency of the
grant/credit agreement.

At the time of the 2012 project restructuring of objectives, the Bank had disbursed US$5.6 million or 53% of the
grant/credit.

DFID agreed to cofinance the project through a multi-donor trust fund with a grant for the equivalent of US$6.33
million. In November 2011, as part of a worldwide portfolio review, DFID began reassessing its commitment to
RWSSP-2 and reached the decision in January 2012 to reduce its co-financing from GBP 5.0 million to GBP 1.0
million. A situation of noncompliance subsequently emerged with the delayed publication of the Project Audit Report
for the period August 2009 to June 2011 corresponding to PMU operations before the transition to ARIS. Following
the issuance by IDA of a suspension threat on May 30, 2012, the government committed to a repayment schedule for
ineligible expenditures and this allowed the Bank to proceed with the second (level-1) project restructuring. By project
completion DFID has disbursed US$1.38 million.

Borrower Contribution :
The Borrower contribution increased from an estimated US$ 2.04 million to US$ 2.36 million, of which US$ 0.30
million was community contributions from Community Drinking Water Users’ Unions.

Dates:
The project was restructured three times and its implementation period closing date was extended by 17 months from
May 31, 2013 to October 31, 2014.
  The first (level 2) restructuring was in July 2011. This involved transfer of project executing and implementing
    responsibilities to a new entity (ARIS) due to non-performance of the original entities.
  The second (level 1) restructuring planned for 2011 following mid-term review was delayed until November
    2012.This restructuring reflected changed conditions: (i) the reduction of the overall project budget following the
    partial withdrawal of DFID co-financing; (ii) the increase in unit costs linked to revised and more robust design
    standards; (iii) unexpected costs of comprehensive additional rehabilitation works in the villages of Koromdu,
    Temir-Kashat and Chelpek, where unsatisfactory rehabilitation took place under the first Rural Water Supply and
    Sanitation Project (RWSSP-1), as well as the need for more modest retrofits in 26 other RWSSP-1 systems; (iv)
    the need for more effective implementation approaches for works contracts and for hygiene and sanitation
    promotion activities, and (v) a growing need to strengthen the institutional framework and capacity in the sector.
    The restructuring was also needed to activate the Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) safeguard policy and to
    accommodate a request for extension of the project closing date by 17 months.
  The third (level 2) restructuring was on March 2014. It involved reallocation of funds among categories,
    mobilization of US$500,000 in additional co-financing by the government towards project works and adjustments
    to the Results Framework.



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objectives

Substantial

Following independence the Kyrgyz Republic faced the reality of economic constraints linked to the break-up of the
Soviet economic zone and the end of centralized subsidies from Moscow that included free water. Although the
country adopted market-based reforms in the 1990s, sectors such as infrastructure and social services continued to
suffer from low investment, and basic public services such as water supply and sanitation continued to deteriorate.
This was exacerbated by the closure of the Village Repair and Development Agency (Kyrgyz-Ayil-Suu). In 2004
two-thirds of the population of the Kyrgyz Republic lived in rural areas of which about 66 percent had access to
improved water supplies, but only 27 percent had household connections. In contrast, the access rate was 98 percent
for urban residents of whom 79 percent had house connections.

In 2001 the World Bank approved the first Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSS-1) to support the
government’s efforts to improve access to water supply and sanitation services and establish a new Department of
Rural Water Supply, and this project closed in 2009. Despite its achievements, the RWSSP-1 ran out of resources
before completion and encountered technical difficulties with water sources. Completion of these outstanding works
was included in this follow-on project that has almost identical objectives with the goals of slowing deterioration in key
infrastructure and social services and contributing to reducing non-income dimensions of poverty. However, while the
project objectives of RWSS-2 focus on access and healthy water-related practices, they omitted improvement of the
very weak institutional base of the rural water supply and sanitation subsector, and this lowers their overall relevance
to modest.

Project objectives were relevant to national priorities and remain so. The Comprehensive Development Framework
(2001) identified several national objectives, among which rural water supply was a priority requirement. Further, the
government also committed to improving access to, and rehabilitation of, rural water supply and sanitation under ‘
Guaranteed access to social infrastructure’ in its Country Development Strategy (2006). Ensuring the delivery of high
quality water supply services was identified as a national priority in 2013 through the Order of the President, No. 194
and the National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Kyrgyz Republic 2013-2017 that was approved by the
Decree of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic No.11, and the new State Program for Development of Water Supply
and Wastewater Disposal in Settlements of the Kyrgyz Republic for 2014-2024.

Project objectives were and remain relevant to the Bank’s partnership strategies for the Kyrgyz Republic. The Joint
Country Support Strategy of 2007 stated that further investments in rural water supply at both national and community
levels were needed and crucial for poverty reduction, empowerment of rural communities and strengthening of the
decentralization process. The Country Partnership Strategy for FY14-17 has three foci including more efficient public
services, better management of natural resources and infrastructure, and more attention to the needs of the almost
two-thirds of the population in isolated rural and mountainous areas.

Restructured Objectives
Substantial
The revised project objectives were relevant because they introduced an institutional dimension to address the
weakening institutional framework and capacity in the sector.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Original Design
Modest
The results framework was fairly comprehensive for the physical works but was weak on recognizing that new
institutional approaches needed additional and improved state inputs at the local, oblast and national level. The
project built on lessons drawn from detailed reviews of the completed and on-going sub-projects, the most important
lessons being that new design criteria for engineering were needed, and that demand-driven sub-project design and
selection by local communities would be a more effective way of balancing costs with provision of individual house
connections instead of stand-pipes.
Implementation arrangements were carefully thought through but were complex given very weak local capacity and
the plethora of government bodies concerned with water supply and health. Individual institutional, water supply and
management consultants were to be contracted by the project management unit (PMU) at the national and regional
levels to carry out community awareness-raising and mobilization, improve operational efficiency, accountability and
transparency. Communities wishing to participate had to pay a 5% cash contribution and enter into a contract with the
local village administration or local self-government body (Ayil Okmotu) and this arrangement allowed communities to
contract with private sector contractors for civil works subject to approval by the State Agency for Architecture and
Construction. Consultants were expected to catalyze coordination and build capacity among the government
stakeholders that included National Agency of Self-governing Affairs, the nascent Department of Rural Water Supply
and the Ayil Okmotus. Similarly, consultants/NGOs were expected to implement the sanitation and health promotion
program with PMU oversight, and coordinate with ongoing national programs in this area.
However, design failed to recognize the unwillingness of existing authorities to use external consultants and cede
authority to them on design and implementation. Design also took little account of the problems associated with the
inappropriate institutional setting of the project – the Department of Rural Water Supply was located in the Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industries.

Revised Design
Substantial
In an effort to address the weakening institutional framework and capacity in the sector, the design was revised to
introduce activities that would enable achievement of the new institutional objective. The project implementing
responsibility was shifted from Joint Project Management Unit, due to its non-performance, to a new NGO entity ARIS
(Community Development and Investment Agency.) According to the 2012 restructuring paper ARIS, established in
2003, was familiar with the World Bank’s fiduciary and safeguards procedures and had hands-on experience in
implementing a number of World Bank and donor-financed projects. Similarly, responsibility for coordinating and
implementing sanitation and health activities was shifted to UNICEF under contract to ARIS.

Finally, the scope of the project was reduced in light of reduced availability of resources and increases in cost. This
reduced the number of rural water supply systems proposed for rehabilitation from 70 to 35.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Efficacy is judged for the two sub-objectives of the original objective for the entire implementation period, and for
the three sub-objectives over the 2012 post–restructuring implementation period.

Original Objectives :
     To assist the Borrower in: (a) improving access of participating communities to potable water; and (b) improving
     hygiene, sanitation and water related practices at individual, family and institutional levels in the rural areas.
(a) Improve access to potable water: Substantial
Outputs
The Borrower’s completion reports lists 38 completed water supply systems, the Bank 37. The original target was
“around 70”schemes and this was reduced to 35 at restructuring. According to the Borrower, the 38 projects included
“28 rectification of Phase I problem projects,” 4 “problem projects,” and only 4 “new subprojects.” Two-thirds of the
expenditure was on fixing the earlier phase I sub-projects. Typical civil works included: 24 wells, 40 reservoirs, new
water towers and chlorination stations, and replacing inefficient pumps and electrical equipment.
    226 improved community water points were constructed or rehabilitated under the project (target 226, this core
     indicator was included as part of restructuring);
    3,902 new improved community water points were constructed or rehabilitated under the project (target 2,000);
    1,000 piped household water connections were rehabilitated (target 1,000);
    Three villages with household connections were fully metered; the number of households is not specified;
    18 schools (target 10) in 18 villages (competitively selected from 49 applications) were equipped with
     rehabilitated sanitation facilities (toilets and washstands), 10 were outdoors and 8 were in-door. All schools had
     uninterrupted water supply and 17 schools had heated water available (a necessity in winter.)
Outcomes
New and/or rehabilitated access to potable water was implemented by 37 participating CDWUUs in Talas, Naryn, and
Issyk Kul Oblasts provided improved water supply to 54 villages according to the Borrower (ICR pages 61- 64). It was
estimated that 83,000 people benefited against the original target of 100,000 and the revised target of 60,000.
Households confirmed greater convenience in accessing water. An impact survey conducted in mid-2014 sampled 50
villages. Respondents were over 18 years old and responsible for paying for municipal services in 888 households
(HH), the sample being split equally between project and non-project areas. The sample list was not random but was
provided by the Borrower. The main findings were:
    86% of HH have access to water supply and sanitation services, and 85% use it as the main source.
    Over the period 2012-2014 the share of HH in project villages using open water sources fell from 29% to 3%. In
     non-project villages the share using open water sources has remained at 23%.
    Over the period 2012-2014 the share of HH installing in-house or yard connections rose from the baseline of 9%
     to 43%.
    Some 83% of HH have water supply for more than 12 hours per day, compared with the 2011 baseline of 63%
     exceeding the target of 50%, and water pressure in pipes was reported as good/very good by 53% of HH
     compared with the 2012 baseline. Even so, there are reductions is supply pressure during the spring and summer
     irrigation seasons.
    For those HH without connections the distance to the nearest water source has decreased. 77% of HH are within
     100 m of a source, up from 47% in 2012. And the share of HH greater than 500 m from an improved water source
     fell from 7% to 0.3% over the same period, significantly exceeding the revised target of 31%. As a result, the
     average HH time spent on collecting water has decreased by 53% from 17 minutes to 8 minutes. The principal
     beneficiaries of the time saving are women and children.
    90% of water tests in project schemes conducted by the Sanitary Epidemiology Station met national standards
     for drinking water quality.
    The share of HH that think they have good/very good quality water increased from 47% in 2012 to 77% in 2014.
     In non-project villages only 19% of HH have the same opinion. And because drinking water quality has improved
     only19% of project HHs now pre-treat it by either boiling or settling. In comparison 88% of project villages had to
     treat water in 2011, and it has remained at this high level in non-project villages.
    The availability of water for wash basins located indoors in households increased from 62% to 78% in Issyk Kul,
     81% to 97% in Naryn and 46% to 61% in Talas.
(b) Improve hygiene, sanitation and water-related practices at individual, family and institutional levels: Substantial
Outputs
55 villages participated in campaigns for improved sanitation and hygiene behavior and 82,160 people were trained.
Of these 60,798 or 74% were women (overall target 100,000 and women 51,000). 20,000 comic books “Let’s keep it
clean” were distributed to schools.
    An important feature of the project was its training of women as facilitators and social mobilizers. The UNICEF
     water and sanitation for health (WASH) methodology was applied to the training of two teachers from each
     school, and 87 women and 23 men were trained in the first stage. These trained teachers subsequently trained
     primary and higher level teachers through grades 1 to 11 and an additional 1,543 women and 414 men were
     trained. Further sensitization to WASH was undertaken through community mobilization, exchange visits,
     parents’ conferences and working with school parliaments.
    9,151 (mainly school children and staff in beneficiary schools) were provided with access to improved sanitation
     facilities under the project (target 5,000); and
    52 schools had hand-washing facilities in use with soap and water available nearby (target 35).
However, an independent UNICEF study indicated that school expenditure on water supply, sanitation, and hygiene
was only a fraction of what was required to fulfill national standards.
Outcomes
Hygiene and sanitation behavior improved and the number of waterborne diseases reduced. There are no normalized
data.
     Behavioral changes. At the household level, members washed their hands with soap before preparing food and
     after toilet use. In mid-2014 almost 73% of people in the project areas reported using soap for hand-washing at
     critical times such as after using the toilet compared to the average of 60% for the period 2010-2013. The range
     of reported improvements, however, is large: Issyk Kul – pre-project 80% to 91% post-project, Naryn - 66% to
     85% and Talas - 41% to 49%). According to DFID’s programme completion report (ICR Annex 8) the biggest
     reason for the increase, and the reason to believe (based on site visits) that hygiene behavior has genuinely
     improved, is the availability of water (heated as required) in the home and at school.

     Health impacts. A comprehensive assessment was carried out by the Sanitary Epidemiology Surveillance Unit in
     the Ministry of Health (comparing 2010-2013 averages with mid-2014 survey data), and it sampled pre- and
     post-intervention tests of fecal and blood samples from school children by SES laboratory staff working with
     village health centers. The outcomes were:
     The cases of acute intestinal infections and viral hepatitis A fell by 55% and 54% respectively, while worm
     (helminthic) infections fell by 75% in the project areas. Thus while the targeted 60% reduction in incidence was
     almost met for viral hepatitis; for giardia the outcome was much better – a reduction of 76%. The DFID report
     notes that only rare helminth cases were reported to have increased, from 23 cases to 94 cases due to
     non-treatment of parents, later revealed to be the main source of infection.
     The impact survey estimated that the incidence of acute enteric infections went from 0.20% to 0.12%, equivalent
     to a 40% percent decrease in illness incidence.
Revised Objectives :
To assist the Borrower in (a): improving access to potable water for the participating communities; and (b) improving
hygiene, sanitation and water-related practices at individual, family and institutional levels in the rural areas, and (c)
strengthening the institutional framework and capacity for the rural drinking water supply and sanitation sector.
The efficacy of the first two objectives is the same as the original project and is not repeated here.
     (a) Improve access to potable water: Substantial
     b) Improve hygiene, sanitation and water-related practices at individual, family and institutional levels:
     Substantial
Achievement of the new objective follows:
     (c) Strengthen institutional framework and capacity of water and sanitation sector: Substantial
Outputs
    A Sector Strategy for Water Supply and Sanitation was completed and is awaiting parliamentary approval.
     Information on water supply and sanitation for 1,899 villages was included in the national database (target 1,700).
    38 CDWUU Service Agreements (target 35) were signed with local self-governments.
    Capacity-building specifically targeted staff of CDWUUs, local self-governments, and DRWS to strengthen and
     improve operations and maintenance, and financial management particularly in operation of a billing system. A
     total of 40 DRWS personnel were trained in management and planning for rural water supply and sanitation
     (target was 40), and 196 CDWUUs were trained in fee collection and management of schemes (target was 196)
     and this includes 159 from Phase-I and 37 in Phase-II.
    All 37 CDWUUs were given computers and printers to improve tracking of fee collection, and training is on-going.
     A Management Information System database with GIS interface, and a financial model for water supply and
     water disposal development, were developed.
    289 CDWUU staff were trained in fee collection and management of water and sanitation schemes (target 200).
Outcome
The objective was substantially achieved. At the national level, sector policy and planning capacity for sustainable
development of water supply and sanitation sector was strengthened. At the local level, all CDWUUs, with the
exception of two, Chelpek and Tort Kul in Issyk Kul Oblast, and Ak Kuduk in Naryn Oblast, had set tariffs and started
collecting fees. The tariff collection rate in villages served by the project reached 74% (target 70%). Although an
average level of cost recovery of 70% was achieved (target 60%), less than half (15) of the CDWUUs were collecting
sufficient revenues to cover O&M costs that only partly include depreciation.
Women are an integral part of Water Committees established through the project, and 65% of CDWUUs have women
occupying at least one of the three most senior positions on their committees. Inclusion of women has not only
enabled greater gender balance, but also adds value in knowledge and management of services since women are
primarily responsible for managing water supply and sanitation.



 5. Efficiency:
    Modest
Economic and Financial Efficiency
The project was subject to economic analysis at entry and on completion and a similar methodology was used for both
estimates. The main differences between the two are the assumptions related to the way opportunity costs were
measured, health benefits, and the time spent collecting water, as well as the consideration of reductions in the cost of
potable water for the households. Opportunity cost of time was extrapolated from GDP per capita.

The economic analysis at appraisal estimated an overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 32% and a Net
Present Value (NPV) of US$12.9 million at a discount rate of 12%. The investment horizon was 10 years.
The financial rate of return varied from 22% for a borehole water system to 30% for a standpipe system, the difference
mainly being the capital costs.

The EIRR at completion was 15% and the NPV was US$$1.9 million at a 12% discount rate and an investment
horizon of 26 years of asset life, including 6 years of project implementation. The principal quantifiable benefits were
reduced average time for collecting water, lowered coping costs of boiling water for consumption and decreased
incidence of waterborne diseases. Neither benefits from social capital creation nor from institutional development
were included. The halving of the ERR by completion is accounted for mainly because of increases in unit costs and
because the ex-ante analysis assumed that individual time savings for collection water would be 20 minutes; the
impact survey at closing showed the saving to be only 8 minutes. It was also assumed that working days lost due to
water and hygiene related disease incidence would become zero in project villages; actual outcomes indicates this
was not the case.

Importantly, although two-thirds of the total investment in civil works (US$6.39 million) was to rectify problems with 44
of the 166 schemes built under the Phase-I project, the earlier pro rata investment of US$8.87 million was regarded as
sunk costs and was not included in the analysis. If this earlier investment were to be included the total investment
costs would have been 65% higher and the ex post EIRR of the Phase-II project would have been much reduced. The
actual reduction cannot be estimated as the ICR does not provide tabulated data showing how the EIRR was derived.
This treatment of sunk costs illustrates the methodological problems in using EIRRs to estimate ex-post project
efficiency. Strictly EIRRs should only be used to make decisions about the better investment choice from among
alternative projects at the time of appraisal.

It is argued in the ICR that at closing the project has relatively low per capita investment costs of about US$ 163 due
to the low population density of the project area, and that this compares favorably with Oxfam’s similar projects that
cost US$ 157 per capita. However if all the costs are taken into account, including the sunk costs in the 44 Phase-I
schemes included in the project, then the per capita cost per Phase-II project beneficiary are US$ 272 or about 60%
more expensive.

Institutional and Administrative Efficiency
The weak capacity of the initial implementing agency required a new agency at restructuring to strengthen project
implementation three years into the project and little had been achieved. There were disagreements over design
standards for the water supply projects which, when finally resolved, resulted in a doubling of the per capita volumes
of water supplied and significant increases in subproject costs and the requirement to complete sub-projects from
Phase 1 of RWSSP which were either not completed or which contained defects requiring work to ensure water
supply. As a result the costs rose and the number of schemes included in Phase-2 was reduced. While restructuring
accommodated the initial institutional setbacks by transferring and retrofitting the implementation arrangements, it
required a closing date extension of 17 months. When costs spiraled and value for money was considerably reduced
DFID took the decision to withdraw its support to Component A and to support only Components B and C; thus the
DFID grant amount was cut from US $ 6.33 million to US$ 1.38 million.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                      Yes                                      32%                                     69%

      ICR estimate                   Yes                                      15%                                     78%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
      The project was restructured three times and the development objectives were changed at the time of the 2012
level-1 restructuring. Accordingly, the overall outcome rating will be determined through the split rating methodology in
which the outcome before and after restructuring are weighted by disbursement.

Original ratings . The relevance of the project objective is substantial and design is rated modest. The efficacy of the
two objectives is rated substantial. Efficiency is rated modest. There were significant shortcomings in the relevance of
design and in efficiency, but efficacy and relevance of objectives was substantial so the outcome is rated moderately
satisfactory. On the scale of 1 to 6, 1 being highly unsatisfactory, 6 being highly satisfactory, the outcome value is 4.

Restructured ratings , The relevance of revised objectives is rated substantial and revised design is rated substantial.
The efficacy of the three objectives is rated substantial. Efficiency is rated modest. There were moderate
shortcomings in the project’s efficiency and the outcome is rated moderately satisfactory, and the outcome value is 4.

Overall Outcome . Given the moderately satisfactory rating for both the original outcome and the restructured
outcome, we have a result of 4 which is Moderately Satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     There is some evidence that some water systems were not fully completed because of resource limitations.
     Sidelining the government rural water supply institutions by transferring implementation responsibility to ARIS
      denied the government the opportunity to benefit from institutional capacity building for design and
      implementation of investment projects/sub-projects. This was even more egregious given the lack of engineers
      and technicians who are adequately trained and can fully understand the application of international technical
      standards, including chlorination.
     Uncertainty in collection of operation and maintenance costs for water supply systems due to inadequate
      technical capacity among the CDWUUs and lack of required budget for the sector to ensure sustained operation.
      How far the strong partnerships that were generally established between the CDWUUs and their local
      administrations will mitigate this is uncertain.
     Inadequate maintenance of school sanitation facilities due to low spending by school administrations on the O&M
      for the WASH facilities – data indicates such spending may be a little of 10% of needs. Varying social and
      attitudinal perspectives on community contribution towards operation and maintenance may mitigate against
      achieving adequate maintenance budgets.


     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Appraisal considered lessons from RWSSP Phase-I, without accurately assessing the liabilities inherited from
the previous project and introduced design standards and materials lacking endorsement by local engineers only
comfortable with former Soviet Union engineering standards. Key risks to project implementation and outcomes
were identified. However, the Bank accepted the implementing agency proposed by the government during
negotiations despite appraisal findings that the institutional base and agency capacity had considerable limitations
and only specified limited technical assistance to address this problem. More attention could have been given to
the results framework: four out of five indicators of development lacked baseline information despite the preceding
project.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Project supervision was implemented with staff with an appropriate skill mix and supervision missions were
carried out at least twice a year. Even then, while acknowledging severe implementation problems, the Bank did
not fully restructure the project and tried to proceed by addressing implementation problems issue by issue. This
did not work. Thus following the mid-term review in June 2011, the project was restructured in two steps. First
implementation responsibility was shifted as agreed with government, to a NGO agency, ARIS, which had
independently proved its capability in managing other Bank projects. Second, a new institutional objectives was
proposed, but due to a suspension threat caused by non-compliance with IDA’s audit requirements, this was
unable to proceed until November 2012. After the second (level-1) restructuring, the rate of project implementation
accelerated but was unable to make up fully for the increased costs, emergence of technical problems with the
Phase-I projects and substantially reduced DFID cofinancing. As a result, outcome targets were reduced, new
institutional indicators were added and the closing date was extended by 17 months. Additionally, as part of the
second restructuring, the Bank triggered OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. A resettlement policy framework was
prepared as a precautionary measure. DFID, in concert with the Bank, rejuvenated the failing hygiene and
sanitation activities and UNICEF was contracted to implement this component.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
       While ownership of the project was high at inception its commitment to the project was affected by the
political instability in the country and repeated changes of line Ministries/Government Agencies that were
responsible for the project. The project was transferred to different Ministries four times between 2008 and 2012
and finally moved under State Agency for Architecture Construction and Regional Development, where it remained
the primary institutional partner of the project. These organizational changes, allied with weak line agency capacity
and continuing implementation problems, caused the government to bypass the Department of Rural Water
Supply and appoint the NGO ARIS as both the Implementing Entity and Executing Agency. Local government
(Ayl Okmotus) performance varied considerably among the participating Oblasts and this, in some cases,
prejudiced their ability to independently establish CDWUUs and receive project funding.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     There were three agencies responsible for implementation. The Project Management Unit located under the
National Agency of Local Self-Governance in Department of Rural Water Supply to take over the project
implementation had severe capacity constraints and proved to be ineffective on most aspects of the project. As a
result responsibility for project implementation was transferred to ARIS as part of first restructuring on 2011. ARIS
was adept in supporting the engineering design and technical supervision aspects of rural water supply during the
difficult transition from the State Technical Engineering Standards to the revised standards for sub-project design,
and the transfer of supervision responsibilities to ARIS was instrumental in getting implementation up to speed.
Supervision ratings for financial management, procurement, and safeguards aspects under ARIS’s management
were generally satisfactory (ICR, page 29).

The hygiene and sanitation component was also affected by the initial PMU’s inability to mobilize a management
consultancy for this task. While this was successfully addressed by contracting UNICEF this was not without
problems because of the procurement problems that arose from contracting a UN agency to work on a
Bank-financed project. Eventually, the contract was signed between ARIS and UNICEF in June 2013 and
subsequent progress was very rapid.

Generally, CDWUUs performance was satisfactory albeit within a wide range that reflected the availability of local
expertise and social capital. The best performing CDWUUs had relatively experienced staff often with a technical
or professional background relevant to management of water supply.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E system was carried over from the earlier rural water supply project and was to be managed by the Project
Management Unit located under the National Agency of Local Self-Governance in Department of Rural Water Supply.
The same M&E unit also had responsibility for the parallel ADB-financed rural water supply and sanitation project
where it was expected that the lead M&E specialist, supported by a junior M&E specialist, would coordinate and
collate information on physical performance and progress to feed into a results-based monitoring system. It was
planned to increase beneficiaries’ role in the M&E process by having the Oblast project support groups work with the
CDWUUs’ management to monitor agreed indicators. A baseline survey was carried out during project preparation,
but 4 out of 6 key indicators did not include baseline data. Although an impact evaluation was specified, no
non-project control groups were established.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   M&E implementation was poor because of the capacity limitations of the PMU. This changed in 2011 under ARIS’s
management and 2012 project restructuring that revised the results framework, indicators and targets.
The project also contributed to the development of two MIS databases to: (i) track performance and management
within rural water supply and sanitation sector; and (ii) the collection and management of data on parasitic diseases
and water quality by the Department for Disease Prevention and Sanitary and Epidemiological Supervision. An impact
evaluation was carried out in September 2014, not June 2011 as planned.

 c. M&E Utilization:
     The information and data generated was sufficient to provide a sound foundation for project restructuring, The
2014 impact evaluation was utilized in the preparation of the ICRR.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Environment:
The project was classified as Category ‘B’ under OP/BP4.01 Environmental Assessment and an exception to the
notification requirements of OP/BP 7.50 International Waterways was granted. Although some sub-project activities
were expected to take place on trans-boundary waterways, they were not expected to modify the course of
waterways, nor significantly increase the volume of water abstraction. Overall, the nature of envisaged works were not
expected to have any significant or irreversible environmental impacts as most were short-term and connected with
construction activities. An Environmental Assessment was implemented in accordance with required procedures and
an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) for the project was prepared. A Russian-language version of the
EMF was disclosed in-country on November 5, 2008 and the English-language version was received by the Bank and
sent to the Bank Info-shop on December 11, 2008. However the implementation of the EMF is not recorded in the
ICR. Though ARIS was familiar with the World Bank's Safeguard Policies, they were trained during the project and
ARIS adequately reported on compliance. According to the ICR task team leader, the Bank’s team closely monitored
the implementation and compliance of the environment management plans.

At the time of the 2012 restructuring OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement Policy was triggered as there was potential
for land acquisition, temporary encroachment, and damage of assets or restrictions on access during implementation.
A Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared and disclosed along with an updated Integrated safeguards data
sheet on July 16, 2012. The framework addressed any issues that arose relating to permanent or temporary
involuntary resettlement associated with project activities. 118 Project Affected Persons in ten villages were identified
in accordance with the policy. Compensation of about US$50,000 equivalent - mainly for temporary restrictions to
access or loss of trees and crops – was financed by IDA on an exceptional basis. All Project Affected Persons were
fully compensated by the project, not as is normally the case, the government (ICR, page 15).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management :
Financial Management compliance under the PMU was poor and many problems were reported with record-keeping
and accounting, including occurrence of missing primary documents, un-reconciled balances, deleted records from
the accounting software, and mix-up of payments between different sources of funds. According to the ICR (pages
15-16) a situation of non-compliance emerged due to delayed publication of the project audit report for the period
August 2009 to June 2011. This corresponded to project operations before the transfer of implementation
responsibility from the PMU to ARIS. After issuance by IDA of a suspension threat in May 2012, the Audit report was
issued in June 2012. Prior to approval of the Level One restructuring in 2012, Government acknowledged the audit
report and committed to a repayment schedule for ineligible expenditures due to weak supporting documentation as
identified in the report. Financial Management under ARIS was generally satisfactory with minor shortcomings (ICR
page 15).

Procurement:
A Procurement Capacity Assessment for the PMU was conducted as part of preparation; it concluded that the two
existing procurement specialists were adequate for project implementation and rated overall procurement risk as
‘moderate’ provided identified mitigation was adopted. Conversely the Assessment rated the risk of procurement
delays and corruption as ‘substantial’ even if mitigation measures were adopted. In the event, under the PMU
procurement progressed very slowly hindered by the difficulties of finalizing engineering design and weak capacity.
After the transfer of implementation responsibility to ARIS, procurement gained pace and was conducted in
accordance with the Bank’s Guidelines (ICR page 16). Special procurement procedures were followed in order to
contract UNICEF to ARIS for the hygiene and sanitation activities.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                  IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                  Moderately
                              Satisfactory                Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                 Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                Moderately            Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory
                                                          Satisfactory          while quality at supervision is rated
                                                                                moderately satisfactory. In line with the
                                                                                Harmonized Evaluation Criteria the
                                                                                overall rating is determined by the
                                                                                outcome rating.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                  Moderately
                              Satisfactory                Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICRR provides 12 lessons and the three most important are summarized below:

    Design of so called ‘repeater’ or follow -on operations should involve comprehensive consultations with
     various key stakeholders to capture any legacy issues and incorporate important lessons on what has and
     has not worked at different stages of the original project . In the subject project, the implementing agency was
     inherited from the earlier project without fully diagnosing that its effectiveness was the result of good project
     management consultants, rather than its own internal capacity.

    Ensure that expediency does not displace capacity building in government institutions . In this project
     expediency led to the by-passing of the line agency and outsourcing project management to a NGO, and this
     approach turned out to be a successful arrangement for getting implementation up to speed and back on track.
     However, care has to be taken at restructuring that the NGO managers have the skills and capacity to work
     alongside their government counterparts, transfer knowledge and build capacity.

    The community- based rural water supply delivery model should fully consider sector maturity and
     competence, political context, and capacity at the local level . Stakeholders must be informed and prepared
     for the fact that some community-based drinking water user associations may underperform or fail because of
     inadequate capacity or financial resources to address issues, and must plan for solutions to assist associations
     in need.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? The assessment is proposed on the basis of poor performance of the project as ‘repeater’ project and check
sustainability of outcomes. It would also be useful to compare (a) implementation performance though ARIS with the
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Fund Development Board model developed under the Nepal Rural Water and
Sanitation Project: (b) the effect the NGO management experience had both countries on institutional reform of the
government’s water sector line agencies.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides a candid and extensive report of project implementation and the numerous problems faced. The
reporting of outputs and outcomes is thorough, consistent and is evidence-based. Safeguard and fiduciary compliance
is adequately reported. The ICR includes excellent Annexes and a good Borrower ICR. DFID’s Programme
Completion Report (Annex 8a) significantly enhanced the quality of evidence and the reasons it reduced its financing.
The section on lessons accord with the project's experience..
The ICR falls short only in detailing the shortcomings related to procurement compliance and the final audit reports.
More thought could have been given to the inclusion of sunk costs when making the value-for-money argument.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
