Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18626
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3631-BUL)
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3771-BUL)
November 19, 1998
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 4, 1998)
Currency Unit       Lev (plural Leva)
US$1.00         Leval,661.5
Lev 1        US$0.0006019
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1994         1995           1996            1997         Jan-Sep 1998
53.7         67.2          177.9           1,674.1          1,792.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP  -  Agricultural Development Project
BNB  -  Bulgarian National Bank
FESAL  -  Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FPB  -  First Private Bank
IBRD  -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
OC  - Operations Committee
PFI  -  Participating Financial Intermediary
PIEF  -  Private Investments and Export Finance Project
PSD   -  Private Sector Development
SAL  -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE  -  State-Owned Enterprise
BULGARIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5
Program Team Leader: Albert Martinez, ECSPF
Task Team Leader: Hans 0. Moritz, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3631-BUL)
AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3771-BUL)
Contents
Preface ................................................... i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................              ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ...................................................   I
A.. Project Description and Objectives                     .I
B. Achievement of Objectives and Major Factors Affecting the Projects.              2
C. Project Sustainability.                                                          4
D. Bank Performance.                                                                5
E. Borrower Performance.                                                            7
F. Assessment of Outcome.                                                           8
G. Key Lessons Leared.                                                              8
Part II. Statistical Tables..                                                       9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments.                                                9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .11
Table 3. Project Timetable .11
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .12
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing .12
Table 6. Status of Legal Covenants .13
Table 7. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .14
Table 8. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .14
Table 9. Bank Resources: Missions .14
Appendix:
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT (Ln. 3631-BUL)
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 3771-BUL)
Preface
This is the combined Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private
Investment and Export Finance Project (PIEF), for which Loan 3631 -BUL in the amount of
US$55.0 million equivalent was approved on June 24, 1993, and made effectivc on January
24, 1994, and the Agricultural Development Project (ADP), for which Loan 377 1-BUL in the
amount of US$50.0 million equivalent was approved on June 29, 1994, and made effective
on July 14, 1995.
An undisbursed balance of US$40.9 million of the PIEF was canceled as of April 25,
1997, compared with the original closing date of June 30, 1998. The final disbursement was
made on May 14, 1996. The ADP was closed as of April 25, 1997, compared with the
original closing date of June 30, 1998, and the full loan amount was canceled.
This report was prepared by Hans 0. Moritz, Task Team Leader, ECSPF, and reviewed
by Albert Martinez, Program Team Leader, ECSPF. It combines the ICRs for the two loans
because the projects are similarly structured, have closely related objectives, and have
experienced almost identical implementation problems. Therefore, the statements on project
sustainability, Bank and Borrower performance, outcome and lessons learned generally apply
to both projects. Where differentiation is needed, this has been indicated in the text. Since
only a part of the PIEF has been disbursed, the only financial intermediary that participated
actively in the PIEF is under liquidation, and the ADP did not reach the stage of
disbursements, the report does not fully cover all aspects normally to be discussed in an ICR.
Above all, the limited information available on the sub-projects financed under the PIEF did
not allow any substantive economic impact analysis.
Preparation of the ICR began during a mission for the preparation of the Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL 2) in March 1998. It is based on material in the
project files. The Bulgarian National Bank (BNB), which acted under both projects as the
Government's agent, and the participating financial intermediary (PFI) (under liquidation)
provided information and views on the execution of the PIEF. BNB prepared also a written
contribution to the PIEF part of the report that is included as Appendix A. The ICR has been
prepared later than required under Bank guidelines, due to the particular situation of the PFI
and organizational changes in BNB.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3631-BUL)
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3771-BUL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I . The US$55.0 million IBRD loan for the PIEF was approved in June 1993 and made effective
in January 1994, and the US$50.0 million equivalent IBRD loan for the ADP was approved in
June 1994 and made effective in July 1995. BNB acted as a financial agent of the Government
and the First Private Bank (FPB) as the PFI. An undisbursed balance of US$40.9 million of the
PIEF was canceled on April 25, 1997. The ADP was closed as of April 25, 1997, and the full
loan amount was canceled.
Project Objectives
2.  The two loans were provided to the Government of Bulgaria to improve access of the private
enterprise and agricultural sectors to medium- and long-term credit, to finance productive
facilities and resources that would contribute to increased exports and improved enterprise
productivity, and to promote private sector growth and an efficient banking system.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.  Both loans became effective with very long delays, mainly due to the Borrower's difficulties
in complying with the conditions of effectiveness, and the projects did not achieve their
objectives. The main reasons were: (i) the critical macroeconomic and financial sector situation
where the loss-making state-owned enterprise (SOE) sector had both fundamentally undermined
the banking system and constrained private sector development; (ii) the lack of well functioning
PFIs, which resulted in only two banks being declared eligible and only one actively participating
in the project; (iii) the slow progress in bank and enterprise privatization; (iv) the fact that the
technical assistance components of the two projects were not implemented; and (v) the lack of
incentives to invest in agriculture.
4. As a result of the above, the PFI withdrew from the loan only US$14.1 million for 21
subprojects, before it experienced financial difficulties and had to be closed. No disbursements
were made under the ADP.
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned and Future Operations
5.  The two projects had very little sustainable impact. On the policy side, the Bank's insistence
on market-oriented interest rates may have contributed to avoidance of subsidized lending. The
direct impact on the final beneficiaries of the PIEF was also insignificant. Only a very small
number of them are considered relatively unproblematic in terms of loan repayments. Court



ii
procedures have been opened against several others. Audit requirements and staff training
programs have had some positive impact on several financial institutions that aspired
participation in the two projects.
6.  The Bank has to accept part of the responsibility for the failure of the two projects.
Although at the time of project preparation, support for private and financial sector development
seemed to be well justified, doubts were raised within the Bank about the commercial banks'
ability to use the loan effectively. However, Bank management relied on the positive impact
expected from technical assistance and planned structural reforms and declared the PIEF effective
after waiving one of the most important effectiveness conditions and interpreting as compliance
the initiation of action on another one. The Bank also drew the Government's attention to the
risks resulting from postponing the structural reforms, for the economy in general, and for the
success of the two projects, in particular. However, the creation of more favorable conditions for
project implementation would have required more decisive action on both the Bank's and the
Government's side, particularly with respect to effective banking regulation and supervision.
Given this background, it is evident that the projects were unrealistic. Also the substantial efforts
made by the Bank during the project supervision stage were unable to remedy the built-in
weaknesseF.
7. The main performance issue on the Borrower's side was the postponement of financial and
enterprise sector reforms that had been expected at the time of project approval. The Bank was
prepared to support these reforms with an adjustment operation (FESAL) whose preparation had
started in parallel with the PIEF and ADP. BNB was chosen as a financial agent of the
Government, since a suitable apex institution was not available. Therefore, while the cooperation
between BNB and the Bank was satisfactory, BNB's role in project preparation and
implementation was a passive one and largely limited to administrative matters. BNB also
experienced a number of administrative problems from the start. They resulted in heavily
qualified audits of the project accounts, a situation that has not been finally clarified with the
Bank.
8. The following lessons have been learned from the failure of the PIEF and ADP: (i) private
sector development projects (PSD) are likely to fail, if implemented before basic macroeconomic
and structural reforms are firmly in place, and projects relying on planned reforms or on the
impact of jointly implemented projects are built on shaky ground; (ii) PSD/credit line projects
require fully committed and actively participating counterpart institutions; therefore, careful
appraisal and early contracting of a larger number of well performing intermediaries is needed;
(iii) the impact of technical assistance should not be overestimated--the lack of strong PFIs is a
problem impossible to resolve in the short run; (iv) where institutional weaknesses are systemic,
any efforts to strengthen individual institutions may be futile; and (v) if the design of a project
does not fit a given situation, the project should be redesigned or canceled as quickly as possible.
9. The disappointing performance of the PIEF and ADP does not provide encouragement for
similar future operations in Bulgaria. Having said this, the two projects were intended to meet
real development needs which still remain unsatisfied today. Some circumstances have changed
for the better: Bulgaria has achieved a substantial measure of macroeconomic stabilization,
underpinned by a Currency Board Arrangement, and has advanced structural reforms. But the
new enterprises' lack of access to investment and export financing has become a serious
bottleneck for economic growth. The advent of a more stable business environment--which was
so badly missing at the time the two projects were to be implemented--may well provide a more
solid basis for a new initiative to support private sector investnent. The challenge for the
Government, the Bank and other development partners is to learn the lessons from our failure and
think creatively about the most efficient ways in which this objective could be achieved.



Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Description and Objectives
I. PIEF: The objectives of the PIEF were to assist in financing such productive facilities
and resources as will contribute to increased exports and improved enterprise productivity
and competitiveness and to promote private sector growth and an efficient banking system.
2.  The project was to achieve these objectives by:
(i) financing, through PFIs, specific investment sub-projects, feasibility and export
marketing studies for the establishment or expansion/upgrading of private enterprises
or private enterprises operating a state enterprise under lease arrangements, in any
sector, excluding primary agriculture and retail trade (Part A of the loan: US$32.0
million);
(ii) establishing and operating a credit facility for the financing, through PFIs, of
imported production inputs, required by enterprises (private or state-owned) for the
manufacture of goods for export (Part B: US$20.0 million); and
(iii) strengthening the capability of PFIs in appraising and supervising projects
through provision of technical assistance and training (Part C: 3.0 million).
3. ADP: The objectives of the ADP were to improve access of the private sector to
medium- and long-term credit for investments in primary agriculture and agribusiness, and to
strengthen the capacity of the banking sector to appraise and supervise projects in agriculture
and agribusiness.
4.  The project was to achieve these objectives by:
(i) financing, through PFMs, specific sub-projects, feasibility studies, and business
plans, for the establishment or expansion/upgrading of enterprises in primary
agriculture, agribusiness and related activities, such as transport, trade, handicraft,
rural tourism, and associated services (Part A: US$47.0 million); and
(ii) strengthening the capability of PFIs in appraising and supervising agricultural
projects through provision of technical assistance and training and financing of part
of the office and other equipment needed for modernization (Part B: US$3.0 million).
5. Under both loans, the sub-projects were to be financed through sub-loans granted at
agreed terms and conditions by PFIs with which BNB had entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, based on compliance with a number of agreed eligibility criteria. Substantial
emphasis was placed on technical assistance, which was to be made available to the PFIs free
of cost in the form of international specialists to help train staff and install the systems for
project appraisal and supervision.
6.  The projects were intended to support the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy that
focused on market reforms and mitigating the impact of reforms on the poor; on the
restoration of creditworthiness; and on the generation of supply response from the productive
sectors and the building of an adequate infrastructure. They were seen as a bridge to a full-
scale implementation of the government's reform program by supporting the initial stages of



2
implementation. This was to be achieved through promoting the development of the private
enterprise sector and supporting banking sector reform through requiring the introduction of
prudential regulations as a condition of loan effectiveness and through insistence on market
interest rates and independent audits of PFIs. The projects were to complement two previous
reform projects, the Technical Assistance Loan (No. 3384-BUL), approved in June 1991, and
the Structural Adjustment Loan (No. 3397-BUL), approved in August 1991, as well as
projects under preparation, including a Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
(FESAL) and investment operations in the infrastructure, agricultural and social sectors.
B. Achievement of Objectives and Major Factors Affecting the Projects
7. Implementation Record. The PIEF became effective 11 months and the ADP 20
months after appraisal. The main reasons for these delays were the difficulties experienced
by the Borrower in complying with the conditions of effectiveness, particularly the
requirements to conclude Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at least two eligible PFIs and to
issue new prudential banking regulations satisfactory to the Bank. In the case of the ADP, the
protracted process of parliamentary ratification of the Loan Agreement and the condition that
the Government commit itself to further liberalize agricultural prices and trade, resulted in
additional delays. While, by the time effectiveness was declared, some progress had been
made in these areas, project implementation suffered from some of the same weaknesses that
had led to the conditions of loan effectiveness.
8.  During the preparation of the PIEF (October 1992), seven private banks were pre-
appraised to assess their ability to meet the agreed standards of financial soundness and
operational performance. The state-owned banks were in the midst of a consolidation
process. They were in principle allowed to participate in the project after their consolidation
and upon meeting special criteria. Of the seven private banks, three were found able to meet
the eligibility criteria of both projects, and others were expected to meet the criteria in due
course. However, when the pre-selected banks were more seriously assessed (after appraisal
of the PIEF), it turned out that only one of them, the First Private Bank (FPB), satisfied the
eligibility criteria and had developed a project pipeline. BNB entered into subsidiary loan
agreements with this PFI in December 1993. In July 1995, subsidiary loan agreements were
also signed with Raiffeisen Bank Bulgaria and in April 1996 with Dobrudja Bank, the latter
subject to compliance with a number of conditions. However, Raiffeisen Bank did not make
any use of the loan resources, and Dobrudja Bank did not comply w ith the mentioned
conditions, thus leaving FPB as the only actively participating financial intermediary.
9. In May 1994, the PFI started submitting sub-projects for approval under the PIEF. By
November 1995, 15 type A sub-projects (for investment financing) in the amount of US$13.1
million, and 6 type B sub-projects (for pre-shipment export financing) in the amount of
US$2.8 million had been approved by the Bank. The estimated total cost of these sub-
projects was US$26.6 million, of which the PIEF was to finance a share of 60 percent. Sub-
loans ranged from US$38,000 to US$2.0 million and total sub-project costs from US$5 1,000
to US$4.0 million. The sub-projects were spread over various industries, including
publishing and printing, furniture, clothing, bottles, computer components, laser heads, and
chemicals. Under the ADP, no sub-projects were submitted and no disbursements made.
10. Achievement of Objectives and Factors Affecting Implementation. The two projects
did not achieve their objectives. The PIEF was only partly implemented, with total
disbursements amounting to US$14.1 million, and no disbursements were made under the
ADP. The main reasons for this failure were:



3
(a) the critical macroeconomic and financial sector situation. Since 1990, declining
or stagnant output in the state-owned enterprise sector had resulted in large enterprise
losses. The loss-making SOEs had both fundamentally undermined the banking
system and constrained private-sector development.
(b) the lack of well functioning financial intermediaries. The state-owned banks
were in the midst of a consolidation/merger process and did not meet the eligibility
criteria for participation in the two projects. Of the new private banks, very few were
older than two years and most of them were weakly managed and staffed. As the
SOEs, most of them were inadequately capitalized and lacked adequate accounting
and auditing procedures and policies with regard to prudential requirements, such as
provisioning, liquidity, lending to related parties, loan concentration, etc. At the
same time, the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework for bank activity was
undeveloped. An early attempt to involve better capitalized non-bank financial
institutions, such as finance companies and leasing firms, failed, since the Central
Bank Law didn't allow BNB to enter into agreements with institutions other than
commercial banks.
(c) the bankruptcy of the PFI. The only PFI actively participating in the PIEF was
inexperienced in project financing, above all in assessing credit risks. After an initial
period of rapid expansion, it started showing signs of financial deterioration. This
was not only due to "home made" problems, such as "connected" lending, but was a
symptom of a broader crisis that affected both the public as well as the private sector
banks and could only be addressed by a sector-wide restructuring effort, in addition to
bank specific measures. Since the reforms were delayed, the crisis escalated and
resulted in bank runs and financial chaos in late 1996/early 1997. By May 1997,
BNB had placed 17 banks under conservatorship, among them the PFI. The bank
was declared bankrupt in January 1998 and is now in the process of liquidation.
(d) the slow progress in bank and enterprise privatization and the fledgling state of
the new private enterprises and banks. By end- 1997, only one bank and SOEs
accounting for only about 18 to 20 percent of the aggregate long term SOE assets
(value 1995) had been privatized.
(e) the technical assistance components of the two projects were not implemented
because most banks were far from meeting the basic financial eligibility criteria for
participation in the projects, were unacquainted with using technical assistance
effectively, or showed an aversion against using it. However, some training of
bankers was provided by various bilateral institutions, mostly through the
International Banking Institute whose establishment was recommended and
supported by the Bank.
(f) lack of incentives to invest in agriculture, due to ambiguous government policy
on land restitution, and frequent changes in agricultural export regulations and prices,
which affected particularly the ADP. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture insisted
on a direct role in ADP implementation, i.e. on having credit approval authority,
which the Bank did not agree to, considering that the credit risk was to be borne by
the PFIs.



4
C. Project Sustainability
11. The sustainability of the limited achievements of the projects is rated "highly
unsatisfactory". On the policy side, the covenants on interest rates made in both loan
agreements were complied with and may have contributed to avoidance of subsidized
lending. Insistence on market interest-rates for the final beneficiaries and on reasonable
interest spreads for the borrower and the PFIs may have contributed to strengthening market-
oriented price behavior.
12. On the side of the final beneficiaries, any sustainable impact has been marginal and
limited to the PIEF. According to the appraisal reports received by the Bank as a basis for
sub-loan approval, and according to information provided by the PFI (in liquidation), most
sub-projects appeared viable at the time of sub-loan approval, but almost all beneficiaries
became delinquent when the PFI was placed under conservatorship, partly to exploit the
situation and partly because they themselves suffered from the deteriorated economic
situation in the country. In March 1998, of the US$14.1 million disbursed, US$11.7 million
were outstanding to the PFI, of which US$ 6.0 million were overdue investment loans. Only
three of the. 15 investment sub-projects financed are considered relatively unproblematic in
terms of repayments. The liquidator of the PFI has opened, or intends to open, court
procedures against seven sub-borrowers. All six short term pre-shipment sub-loans have been
repaid on time.
13. Finally, on the institutional side, the covenants on auditing of the project accounts helped
familiarize BNB with the use of international auditors, and the audit requirement for banks
aspiring participation in the projects induced several institutions to submit for the first time to
the rigor of international auditing. Several of them continued international auditing in the
following years. As a result of a covenant in the ADP loan agreement, requiring participation
in training programs by banks wishing to participate in the loan program, a group of bank
employees received basic training in Western banking techniques. However, several of the
seven banks that benefited from these measures were declared bankrupt in 1997/98.
14. According to information provided by BNB, of the US$14.1 million disbursed under the
PIEF, the PFI had repaid to BNB US$4.1 million as of December 1997. Adding interest due
and penalties for overdue debt, the total liability of the PFI to BNB was US$10.5 million as
of the mentioned date This amount became immediately due when the PFI was declared
bankrupt on December 22, 1997. (At the insistence of BNB's auditors, a 100 percent
provision was made against these arrears in BNB's 1996 accounts.) According to the priority
list prepared by the liquidator, BNB is in sixth' place of the PFI's creditors. BNB is trying to
move the debt up in the list of priorities, arguing that, with respect to the PIEF, BNB was
only acting as an agent of the Government, and that any debt to the Ministry of Finance has
first ranking.



5
D. Bank Performance
15. Project Preparation. At the time the two projects were prepared, support for private
and financial sector development seemed to be well justified. Starting in 1990/91, the
Government had successfully implemented a liberalization and stabilization program,
supported by the IMF, and had taken first basic measures for structural reform of the
enterprise and financial sectors, supported by a SAL. A more ambitious structural reform
project (FESAL) was under preparation. Although progress in reforming the state banking
and enterprise sectors had been slow, the Government seemed committed to rapid
privatization and restructuring, but the new private enterprises lacked financial and technical
support.
16. On the other hand, doubts were raised within the Bank during project preparation that
the commercial banks would not be ready to use the loan proceeds effectively and that credit
demand for "bankable" projects would be low. However, Bank management relied on the
positive impact of the planned technical assistance and structural reforms, including
privatization and development of the regulatory and supervisory framework for bank activity.
Since the reforms were delayed and technical assistance was utilized sparsely and not always
effectively, the insecurity surrounding the banks' performance and non-compliance with
prudential regulations created difficulties in accrediting banks for participation in the
projects. Finally, the PIEF was declared effective after waiving one important effectiveness
condition, the signature of at least two subsidiary loan agreements, and interpreting as
compliance the initiation of work on another, the adoption of new prudential banking
regulations.
17. With hindsight, it is evident that the projects were unrealistic. The difficulties
experienced before loan effectiveness continued to plague project implementation until the
very end. The Bank drew the Government's attention to the risks resulting from postponing
the structural reforms for the economy, in general, and for the success of the two projects, in
particular. However, the creation of more favorable conditions for.the implementation of the
projects would have required more decisiveness on both sides, above all insistence on
effective utilization of technical assistance and on full implementation of the policy and
institutional measures that had already been agreed under the SAL in 1991 and had become a
condition of effectiveness under the PIEF (adoption and enforcement of acceptable prudential
banking regulations). In the given situation, the estimates of the project's economic impact
made in the PIEF appraisal report, particularly the assumption that the investment component
of the PIEF would create about 15,000 new full-time jobs in 3,000 private enterprises and
that the export credit component would help generate about US$80.0 million of incremental
export receipts annually, was overly optimistic.
18. Project Supervision. During the supervision stage, the Bank's performance was very
responsive and flexible, as regards the need for modifying the projects, and vigilant, as
regards the deteriorating condition of the financial system. PIEF and ADP supervision
missions undertaken in 1994 and 1995 analyzed in detail the obstacles to accelerated project
implementation. As a result, the PIEF Loan Agreement was amended repeatedly to increase
the attractiveness of the project, including an increase in the thresholds for procurement
procedures, an increase in the threshold and a simplified formula for the calculation of the
economic rate of return, an increase in the maximum sub-loan amount (all in October 1994),



6
and allowing the financing of locally produced goods and inputs (February 1995). The ADP
agreement was amended in November 1994 to allow the financing of locally manufactured
goods.
19. Efforts to expand the number of PFIs started soon after the PIEF was declared effective
and continued to be the main emphasis of all PIEF and ADP supervision missions. About 30
banks that had shown interest in participation were interviewed, some of them repeatedly;
detailed follow-up letters explaining the measures needed to meet the eligibility criteria for
participation were issued and, in some cases, action plans agreed upon; technical assistance
and international audits were organized (financed from trust funds) for some more promising
banks. Finally, BNB accredited two additional PFIs in 1995. However, they never started
drawing on the lines of credit. The Bank then considered to provide loan funds for the
capitalization of selected state-owned banks, conditioned to their privatization, but action on
this proposal was postponed to await the impact of the other mentioned measures. When the
proposal was renewed by the Government in August 1996, the Bank found that measures on
institutional level did not promise to be successful, given the delays in implementing the
structural reforms that had been agreed with the IMF and the Bank.
20. Bank missions worked with the PFI on the improvement of its project appraisal
capabilities and commented in detail on practically all sub-project proposals. The Bank
became increasingly cautious in reviewing sub-projects, and the originally envisaged free
limit for sub-loan approval was not activated. Several sub-projects were rejected because
they were unviable or poorly appraised. The Bank also rejected the PFI's proposal to
relocate the Special Account from BNB to itself. An auditor's opinion confirming the PFI's
continued compliance with the eligibility criteria was required and received in early 1995.
When supervision missions noticed that the PFI's financial position was weakening, the
Bank started advising the PFI's and BNB's management in January 1995 to be vigilant of
any deterioration of the portfolio and to strengthen the bank's project appraisal and risk
assessment capabilities by contracting specialized consultants and/or by entering into a
twinning arrangement with an internationally reputed commercial bank.
21. By the last quarter of 1995, the systemic crises in the enterprise and banking sectors had
come to a point where the Bank decided to advise the Government about its doubts
concerning the continued eligibility of the PFI. However, although BNB placed the PFI
under conservatorship in May 1996 and decided formally to stop disbursements under the
PIEF and to terminate the Subsidiary Loan Agreement concluded under the ADP, the Bank
found that canceling or reducing the loans at this stage would have been inconsistent with its
efforts to support enterprise and financial sector reforms. Also, the early demise of the ADP
would have severed an opportunity for the Bank to engage the Government in a policy
dialogue on agriculture, a sector with a major comparatix e advantagc and a grossly
underutilized potenti, * for expJrt and growth.
22. '. 1996, continued attempts were made to identify new uses of the loans, including the
use of ADP funds to support emergency measures to stimulate grain production. When the
Government reached agreement, in principle, with the IMF and the Bank on a structural
reform program, the Region proposed to the Operations Committee (OC) to open the two
loans for the provision of severance payments to workers laid off as a result of the reform
program. The OC supported the idea to provide such social support, but decided that this
should be done under a separate operation. Consequently, a Rehabilitation Loan was
approved in August 1996, and the two loans were canceled in April 1997.



7
E. Borrower Performance
23. Since, at the time of project appraisal, Bulgaria did not have a financial institution
experienced in operating as an apex organization, the Govemment and the Bank agreed that
BNB would act as the Govermnent's financial agent whose functions would be limited to
administrative tasks, such as accrediting PFIs recommended by the Bank, processing
disbursements for subprojects approved by the Bank, and keeping the project accounts.
Therefore, and to avoid possible conflicts of interest, BNB played a relatively passive role in
the preparation and implementation of the projects, which resulted in a low level of project
ownership and participation. Within this limitation, BNB generally played a constructive
role and maintained an active dialogue with the Bank on such issues as the banks'
participation in the projects and the on-lending terms and conditions. In early 1995, when
prospective participating banks complained that the high currency risk plus an on-lending
rate of 4 percentage points above LIBOR was too heavy a burden for the young enterprises,
BNB correctly insisted that the Government's interest spread be reduced to 2 percentage
points for investment loans and 1 point for export loans. It also proposed a number of the
amendments to the Loan Agreements discussed above.
24. However, BNB experienced a number of administrative problems from the start. A
PIEF supervision mission of June 1995 drew the attention of BNB's management to a
number of irregularities in the disbursement and accounting system, and agreed on an action
plan to remedy the deficiencies. However, this plan was not implemented, and, as a result,
the international audits of the 1994 and 1995 project accounts were heavily qualified. The
Bank communicated increasingly strong reservations and concems to BNB and the
Government and insisted on a change in BNB's auditing firm, since the audits had shown a
number of systematic weaknesses. All this was of no avail. The 1996 audit, received in mid-
1997, was again strongly qualified, including disclaimers conceming the proper use of funds.
As the Bank had not made any commitments under the PIEF since late 1995 and the loans
had been canceled in April 1997, no further actions were taken. The borrower's audit
obligations have ceased. However, a related matter is still pending. In spite of numerous
efforts, we have not yet succeeded in recovering the balance of a Special Account amounting
to US$1,014,258.45. This amount has been withdrawn without presenting documentation to
the Bank. The Resident Mission is now making renewed efforts to ensure the recovery of
this amount.
25. The main performance issue on the borrower's side was the postponement of financial
and enterprise sector reforms. In particular, accelerated privatization of industrial and
agricultural enterprises and the strengthening and strict enforcement of prudential banking
regulations, as had been expected at the time of project preparation, would have introduced
an element of financial discipline and transparency in the enterprise and financial sectors, and
would have improved the pre-conditions for the success of the projects. More effective
banking supervision would have detected earlier the approaching financial sector crisis,
including the problems of the PFI.



8
F. Assessment of Outcome
26. The "unsatisfactory" rating of the two projects is fully justified. The ADP had a very
limited impact during the preparation stage (through covenants of effectiveness), and the
small impact the partial implementation of the PIEF had on some Government policies, on
the final beneficiaries and on the two implementing institutions may have been largely lost
again in the economic crisis that ensued in 1996. In the described situation, it can only be
hoped that the physical inputs financed under the PIEF are being put to good use. A direct
assessment of sub-project benefits was not possible.
G. Key Lessons Learned
27. The lessons learned from the failure of the PIEF and the ADP are not new: (i) Financial
intermediary lending is likely to fail, if implemented before basic macroeconomic and
structural reforms are firmly in place; more emphasis should be put on assessing
governments' willingness and ability to introduce and sustain reforms; (ii) projects relying on
planned reforms or on the impact of jointly implemented projects are built on shaky ground;
(iii) the impact of technical assistance should not be over-estimated; such assistance will
usually be effective only where the levels of acceptance and absorptive capacity are high and
where it can be put in place in a timely manner; (iv) the lack of financially strong, well
managed and supervised banks, able to assess and manage risks, is a problem impossible to
resolve in the short run. i.e. during the life time of a credit line project; (v) where institutional
weaknesses are systemic, any efforts to strengthen individual institutions may be futile; (vi)
credit line operations require deeper appraisal and early contracting of a larger number of
well performing financial intermediaries; (vii) credit line projects require fully committed
and participating counterpart institutions. If such projects are implemented in the absence of
an experienced apex institution, the Bank should accept that project supervision is extremely
labor intensive. Central banks are usually unsuitable as apex institutions for a variety of
reasons; and (viii) if the design of a project turns out not to fit a given situation, the project
should be redesigned or canceled as quickly as possible.
28. The disappointing performance of the PIEF and ADP does not provide encouragement
for similar future operations in Bulgaria. Having said this, the two projects were intended to
meet real development needs which still remain unsatisfied today. Some circumstances have
changed for the better: Bulgaria has achieved a substantial measure of macroeconomic
stabilization, underpinned by a Currency Board Arrangement, and has advanced structural
reforms. But the new enterprises' lack of access to investment and export financing has
become a bottleneck for economic growth. The advent of a more stable business
environment--which was so badly missing at the time the two projects were to be
implemented--may well provide a more solid basis for a new initiative to support private
sector investment. The challenge for the Government, the Bank, and other development
partners is to learn the lessons from the failure and think creatively about the most efficient
ways in which this objective could be achieved.



9
Part IL Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
Table 5:   Project Costs and Financing
Table 6:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives1/      Substantial       Partial        N   Ii 'bl
Macro Policies                      v               E                                  El
Sector Policies                    n               o                                  Eo
Financial Objectives                [J              E                                 El
Institutional Development                           a [J                               Cl
Physical Objectives                                 E                                  E0
Poverty Reduction                   Q               E                El
Gender Issues                       El              E                El
Other Social Objectives             al              E                                  E0
Environmental Objectives            Q               E                El
Public Sector Management            El              E                El
Private Sector Development          E               E                                  El
Other (specify)                     E               E                El
(Continued)
/ Refers only to PIEF, since ADP was not disbursed



10
B. Project Sustainability 2/            Likely                     Unlikely                    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance2/                  Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Deficient
(1')               ~~~~(/)(/
Identification                        E                          El
Preparation Assistance                                           EJ
Appraisal
Supervision
Highly
D.  Borrower Perfonnance 3/            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                           .El
Implementation
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                                Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome 3/           Satisfactory      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
2/ Refers to both PIEF and ADP



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan No.             Purpose           Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
3384-BUL             Technical Assistance      1991             Extended to 06/30/99
Loan (TAL)
3397-BUL             Structural Adjustment     1992             Closed on 09/30/94
Loan (SAL)                                ICR issued
Following operations
4239-BUL             Financial and             1997             Closed on 4/30/98
Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan
(FESAL)
ASAL, Support for         1999 (expected)  Under preparation
Agric. Reformns,
Landrest., and Privatiz.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Actual Date
Steps in Project Cycle                  PIEF        ADP
Preparation (EPS)                          12/09/1992           10/04/1993
Appraisal (SAR)                            05/17/1993           05/23/1994
Negotiations                               05/07/1993           04/28/1994
Board Presentation                         06/24/1993           06/29/1994
Signing                                    09/30/1993           07/21/1994
Effectiveness                              01/24/1994           07/14/1995
Loan Cancellation                          04/25/1997           04/25/1997
[Project Completion                        12/31/1997           12/31/1997]
[Loan Closing Date                         06/30/1998           06/30J1998]



12
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual3/
(US$ thousands)
FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate        20,000  35,000  50,000  53,000  55,000
Actual                     4,300  11,840  15,431   14,097  14,097
Actual as % of estimate   21      34       31      27      26
Date of final disbursement  05/21/
1996
Table SA: Project Costs 4/
Appraisal estimate            Latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
1. IBRD                                   55.0    55.0                  14.1     14.1
2. Financial Intermediaries       3.0              3.0
3. Sub-borrowers                 52.0              52.0        14.1              14.1
Total                            55.0    55.0    110.0         14.1    14.1    28.2
Table 5B: Project Financing 4/
Appraisal estimate             Latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
IBRD/IDA                                  55.0    55.0                  14.1    14.1
Cofinancing Institutions
Other External Sources
Domestic Contributions           55.0              55.0        14.1              14.1
etc.
Total                          55.0       55.0    110.0        14.1    14.1    28.2
3/ Refers only to PIEF, since ADP was not disbursed



13
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
Coven  Present    Original      Revised         Description of Covenant             Comments
Agreement      Section    ant    Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillmen
Type                Date         t Date
PIEF
L3631-BUL   4.01 (a)         I      NC                               Maintenance of adequate records and Audit of project accounts
accounts.                         was qualified repeatedly.
4.01 (b)+(c)    I     CD         06/30                 Aniual audit of project accounits and
presentation to Bank within six
iToiitlls.
4.02          12      NC                               Borrower to maintain Export finanice  Since loan itself was not
Facility.                         tilly disbursed. there was no
need fbr a revolving facility.
4.03          12       C                               13orrower not to support subsidized   During the lifetime of the
lending to industrial sector and to    loan, subsidized lending was
exchanige views with Bank on      negligible.
leInding policies at least once
annually.
5.01 (a)      10      NC    Effectiveness              At least two subsidiary loan      At time of effectiveness.
agreements to be signed.          only one agreement was
signed.
5.01 (b)      10       C     Effectiveness             Each participating financial
intermediary to have adopted a
Policy Statement and a Corp. Srategy
acceptable to the Bank.
5.01 ©        12      CP    Effectiveness              The Bulgarian National Bank to have At time of effectiveness. the
issued the new prudential regulaL.ons regulations were issued in an
for banks, acceptable to the Bank.   inadequate form and not
enforced.
ADP
L3771-BUL   4.01 (a)         I      NC                               Maintenance of adequate records and Audit of project accounts
accounts.                         was qualified repeatedly.
4.01           1      CD    06/30                      Annual audit of project accounts and
(b) + (c)                                             presentation to the Bank within six
months.
4.02 (a)      12      C      12/31/96                  Existing short-term farm credit
subsidy programs to be phased out
by December 31, 1996.
4.02 (b)      12      C                                Annual policy reviews related to
progress in agric. price, trade and
credit policies to be carried out
jointly with the Bank.
5.01 (a)      3        C                               At least two subsidiary loan
agreements to be signed.
5.01 (b)      3        C                               Participating financial intermediaries
to have adopted a Policy Statement
and a Corp. Strategy acceptable to
the Bank.
Covenant types:                                                                                Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                8. = Indigenous people                     C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting     CD  complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by    CP  complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds             categories 1-9                          NC  not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing
agency
6. = Environmental covenants
7. = Involuntary resettlement



14
Table 7: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned41                PIEF Actual                  ADP Actual
Stage of project cycle   Weeks       US$        Weeks          US$            Weeks          US$
Preparation to Appraisal      N/A       N/A         t 17.7        328.1           148.7        456.4
Appraisal                     N/A       N/A         33.2          95.4             34.2         101.5
Negotiations through Board    N/A       N/A          5.8           18.1            17.9         53.9
approval
Supervision                  N/A        N/A         122.5         338.5            91.1         171.8
Completion                    N/A       N/N         5.3           14.0             1.6           5.6
Total                    N/A       N/A         284.5         794.1           293.5         789.2
Table 9A: Bank Resources: PIEF Missions
Performance Ratin       Tyes of
Stage of project cycle  Month/   No. of  Days in  Specialization'    Implem.      Developm    ProTlemso
Year   Persons   Field                       status      objectives
Through Appraisal           04/92      1       5            F
Appraisal through Board     02/93      7       16       E,AC,F,C
approval
Supervision                 12/93     2        9           F,E             I
03/94      1       9            F              2            2
01/95      3       10         F,E,C            S            S
06/95     3        10         F,E,C            S            S
Update without mission     06/96                                          U             U          POL/M
Completion                 03/98       1       1            E             U             U          POL/M
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performnance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
4/ The MIS does not provide this information



15
Table 9B: Bank Resources: ADP Missions
Performance Rating'     Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.       Developm-  Problemso
Year   Persons  Field                       Status      objectives
Through Appraisal           04/91      5      18         AC,F,E
10/91     10      18        AC,F,E
11/91     1       3           AC
02/92      1      10          AC
07/92      1      10          AC
11/92     1       6           AC
02/93     2       20          AC
06/93     2       16          AC
Appraisal through Board     11/93     6       18        AC,F,E
approval                    03/94      1      11          AC
Supervision                 07/94      1       5          AC
10/94     3       10        AC,F,C           S             S         POL/M
06/95     4       11        AC,F,C           U             S         POL/M
10/95     2       12         AC,F            U            U          POL/M
Completion                  N/A



APPENDIX A
EVALUATION REPORT
ON THE EXECUTION OF THE PRIVATE
INVESTMENT AND EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT
AND THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT



The Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development (IBRD) and Republic of Bulgaria for Private Investment and
Export Finance (PIEF), dated September 30, 1993 was signed with the intention to
provide the banking sector in Bulgaria with long term funds in the form of a credit
line for the promotion primarily of newly established private companies. Unfortu-
nately, the above mentioned objective was not met entirely.
The last four years, during which the project was implemented were
marked with dramatic macroeconomic changes which affected negatively the idea of
the Project.
I.    Credit line environment
The credit line was started after a detailed examination, carried out by a
team of the World Bank, of the ability of the private industrial sector and the com-
mercial banks to use properly and effectively the funds of the credit line.
The credit operations started in a relatively stable economic environ-
ment but the utilization of the Project funds' was very slow. One reason for this might
be considered the low share of the private sector in the economy - about 10%.
HI.   Selection of intermediary banks
According to the terms of the Loan agreement the credit facility was
opened only for private banks. The team of the World Bank selected First Private
Bank (FPB), which at that time ranked among the largest Bulgarian bank and was
the only private institution with the necessary expertise to act as an intermediary. The
Managing Board of the BNB passed a decision for the conclusion of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement with this bank.
In our opinion, however, the selection of only one financial intermediary
at the beggining proved to a project risk. The collapse of the banking sector in 1996
and the closure of FPB jeopardized the entire project.
-1-



III.  Selection of subprojects
Under the terms of the credit line, the financial and technical evaluatio
of the different projects was a task of IBRD and FPB. BNB was not involved in this
process and was only informed by the two institutions about the approved subprojects.
In disbursing the funds BNB had to rely on the information received
from FPB on the viability and the financial stability of the final beneficiaries. The
control on the progress of the projects was also a responsibility of the intermediary.
BNB established a control system only for a formal check of existing
documents.
IV.  Classification of subprojects
One possible classification of the subprojects financed under the loan
might be the following:
a) Erport orientated subprojects -into this group have to be classified
all subprojects of Part B of the Loan agreement and the projects
FPB-A15 (Izvor), FPB-A11 (Optron Technology), and FPB-A14
(Karabulev);
b) National market oriented subprojects -this group includes FPB-A4
(Exprint) and Geoman;
c) Regional market oriented subprojects -all remaining projects fi-
nanced under the loan belong to that group;
In determining the risk of each group we may summarize that the proj-
ects of group C - Regional market oriented subprojects were exposed to the highest
risk - Europe-Nedelino and Eurostyle-M.
National market oriented subprojects may be ranked second in terms of
risk, and finally, the less exposed to risk were the projects oriented towards foreign
markets, partly because they had cash flows entirely in foreign currency and did not
suffer from the devaluation of the national currency.
-2-



A second criteria which can be used in assessing the viability of the sub-
projects might be the amount of extended credits. Our statistics shows a prevailing
stability of sub-projects exceeding USD 1,000,000.
V.   Performance of IBRD
The IBRD emphasized on the selection of Financial Intermediaries and
the approval of Subprojects.
FPB reported regularly on the timely repayments made by the final
beneficiaries. By the time FPB was declared insolvent no credit financed under the
Loan had been classified.
In the execution of financial operations with BNB, IBRD wrongly
transferred USD 563,500 into Acc. B with value February 2, 1995, and USD
1,650,570 again into Acc. B with value March 6, 1995. As a result a discrepancy oc-
curred between the statements of BNB and IBRD. After many corrections made by
IBRD, this discrepancy is still not eliminated and USD 563,500 disbursed under Part
A of the Project as a direct payment are wrongly reported to be a disbursement under
Part B of the Project.
VI.  Performance of FPB
As an intermediary FPB followed the Terms of the Project. Some prob-
lems occurred, however, which may be attributed to the lack of financial discipline of
the newly established private companies. The auditors reported for instance, absence
of original invoices in the files of FPB for some projects.
Despite of this, our opinion is that FPB established a good organization
in its credit unit of FPB. Staff qualification was high enough for the implementation
of the project.
Thus we may conclude that FPB performance was sufficient in the
specific economic conditions in Bulgaria at the time the project was implemented.
3 -



VII. Performance of BNB
The performance of BNB is described in the auditors' reports of BDO
Binder and Coopers & Lybrand. Both auditors came to similar conclusions and gave
identical recommendations.
The main obstacle for the execution of the Project was the reluctance of
the Bulgarian governments to carry out substantial structural reforms. In that atmos-
phere BNB did not have enough instruments to prevent the entire financial sector by
the crucial bankruptcy of the real sector.
VIII. Agricultural Development Project (ADP)
The pre-selected financial intermediaries (FPB - July 7, 1995, Raiffeis-
enbank Bulgaria - July 11, 1995 and Dobrudja Commercial Bank - June 20, 1995)
were not able to identify subprojects to be financed under the loan, and during their
regular contacts with BNB they expressed the opinion that the Project was not viable
in Bulgaria.
IX.  General conclusion
In our opinion there were many difficulties for the successful implemen-
tation of the Project.
Although the apparent economic stability in the country in 1993 the de-
velopment in Bulgaria during the period 1993-96 was characterized by dramatic eco-
nomic fluctuations.
The lack of a clear governmental policy for the support of the private
sector and the emerging medium-sized enterprises in the country was another reason
for the partial implementation of PIEF and ADP.
-4-



